VANCE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 1-9-2023; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2023 Acts, Pamphlet No. 1
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title III
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Vance County, North Carolina,
shall be designated as the Code of Vance County, North Carolina, and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the County of Vance,
North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code, as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Vance County, North Carolina.
      DAY. A calendar day.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes PERSON, PERSONS, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal PROPERTY.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any pathway, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the
county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way or area between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (2)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
      (3)   The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all
municipal business.
  § 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or
subchapter, or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from
this code by omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section         of
the Code of Ordinances, Vance County, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows: [. . .]” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Vance County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered         , which section shall read as follows: [. . .]”
The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution, or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or
prescribing salaries for county officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit or other
right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution, or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   All these ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code
shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of
County Commissioners.
      (2)   A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code.
      (3)   The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [such as
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles of sections and
other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in the
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§      to     ” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL POLICIES
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   STATE OF EMERGENCY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL POLICIES
Section
   
30.01   Smoking in the courtroom
 
   
30.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Archive and Historical Collection, see
Chapter 91
§ 30.01 SMOKING IN THE COURTROOM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in the courtroom of the
County Courthouse and in the foyers and stairways leading thereto.
   (B)   This section shall take effect on July 29, 1970.
(Ord. 1, passed 7-6-1970) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
30.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment in
the county jail for not more than 30 days or by a fine of not more than $50, or
by both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 1, passed 7-6-1970)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Human Relations Commission
   
31.01   Desirability
   
31.02   Establishment; duties
   
31.03   Authority
   
31.04   Membership, terms of office and the like
   
31.05   Organization; meetings; quorum
   
31.06   Paid personnel
   
31.07   Budgets
   
31.08   Annual audit
   
31.09   Reports
   
31.10   Amendments and repeal
Cross-reference:
   Planning Board, see
Chapter 150
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION
§ 31.01 DESIRABILITY.
   The City Council of the City of Henderson and the Board of County
Commissioners of the County of Vance, herein called “governing bodies,” hereby
find and declare that it is desirable that a Human Relations Commission be
established and maintained in Vance County, including the City of Henderson,
pursuant to the provisions of G.S. §§ 160A-492 and 153A-445.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.02 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a commission to be known as the
Henderson–Vance County Human Relations Commission.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of this Commission in general:
      (1)   To encourage understanding and good will between all citizens
regardless of race, sex, religion, creed, nationality or economic status, and
thus promote the general welfare of this community;
      (2)   To report to and to recommend to the City Council and Board of
County Commissioners measures designed to promote the welfare of the community;
      (3)   To identify concerns within the community which could jeopardize
the welfare of the community;
      (4)   To act as an impartial public forum, to the end that there will be
better communications between all segments of the community; and
      (5)   To promote peace, understanding, respect, good will and harmony
among all citizens.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Henderson–Vance County Human Relations Commission may promote
public interest in its recommendations in such a manner as to lessen any
tensions and promote good will among all citizens.
   (B)   The Commission may sponsor meetings or forums intended to lead all
citizens to a clearer understanding of the true meaning of responsible
citizenship in the community, of the obligations inherent in being a good
citizen, and of the need for mutual understanding and respect by all citizens
for each other.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the authority to create and devise plans for
recommendations to the governing bodies.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission may make expenditures and enter into contracts
and agreements without specific approval of its governing bodies, provided the
respective obligations, contracts or expenditures meet all legal requirements,
will not exceed the unexpended funds remaining in the respective line item of
the Commission’s budget, and will not be binding on either governing body or
government.
      (2)   No personnel shall be hired or paid by the Commission unless the
individual proposed is approved by both the City Council and the Board of
County Commissioners.
   (E)   The Commission is authorized to receive contributions from private
agencies and organizations, other governmental agencies, or from individuals,
in addition to any sums which may be appropriated for its use; but these funds
shall not be commingled with any funds obtained from Vance County and the City
of Henderson.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.04 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS OF OFFICE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of 20 members. Ten members of the
Commission shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners of Vance
County. Ten members of the Commission shall be appointed by the City Council of
the City of Henderson. While representation of all of the various segments of
the community is not required, diversity of membership is desirable.
   (B)   Members will be appointed for 3-year terms. In the event any member
shall fail to attend 3 consecutive meetings (without just cause), the same
shall constitute an involuntary resignation by the member. The Commission shall
promptly notify the governing bodies of all resignations (whether voluntary or
involuntary) and other vacancies on the Commission, and the vacancy shall be
filled for the unexpired term by the respective governing body originally
appointing the respective member. No person shall serve more than 9 consecutive
years.
   (C)   Members of the Commission shall receive no compensation for their
services.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.05 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet for the purpose of organization as soon as
reasonably possible after its creation on joint call from the Mayor of the City
of Henderson and the Chairperson of the Vance County Board of Commissioners.
The Commission shall elect its own officers, which shall include a Chairperson,
a Vice-Chairperson, a Secretary and a Treasurer, and shall propose bylaws for
the transaction of its business subject to approval of the bylaws by both
governing bodies. A copy of the bylaws shall be filed with the City Clerk of
the City of Henderson and with the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners of Vance
County for inspection by interested parties and shall constitute public
records.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall hold meetings as provided by the bylaws, or
when called by the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or any 3 members of the
Commission at any time upon 20-hours’ written or telephone notice to all of its
members. All meetings shall be open to the general public except those
authorized by law to be in executive session (e.g., those considering action
necessary to deal with a riot or civil disorder or with conditions that
indicate that a riot or civil disorder is imminent). It shall keep minutes of
its meetings in which shall be recorded all action taken in its public meetings
that it considers. These minutes shall be public records.
      (2)   The Commission can invite and receive suggestions from the public
concerning any and all matters within the scope of its duties.
   (C)   While a quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the
Commission, no expenditure shall be made and no official action shall be taken
or official recommendation made unless upon the affirmative concurrence of 2/
3 of the members of the Commission (without proxies).
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.06 PAID PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Commission shall not retain, hire, pay or otherwise engage
services unless so authorized by both governing bodies and unless the
individual proposed is approved by both governing bodies.
   (B)   The governing bodies shall jointly determine whether any personnel
shall be deemed an employee of either (or both) governing bodies and if so, the
status, classification, pay plan and personnel policy to which the personnel
shall be subject.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.07 BUDGETS.
   (A)   As soon as reasonably possible after its organization, the Commission
may prepare and present to each governing body an estimate of its monetary
requirements until the end of the current fiscal year, showing in detail the
various purposes for which the money will be needed. The governing bodies,
after making modifications as they see fit, may approve a final budget for the
Commission until the end of the current fiscal year and may appropriate funds
sufficient to meet the budget. Thereafter the Commission shall annually (on or
before March 1) file with the City Manager and the County Auditor an estimate
of its requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, an annual financial report for
the past year, and such other information as the officials may need in
connection with their presentation to the governing bodies of the budget
estimate required by law.
   (B)   Vance County will provide 50% of the funds of the jointly approved
budget and the City of Henderson will provide 50% of the funds of the jointly
approved budget.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.08 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   The Commission shall keep accurate books and records in accordance
with sound accounting procedures and in full compliance with the Fiscal Control
Act.
   (B)   All books, records and documents relating to all funds received and/or
spent by the Commission shall be subject to audit by the auditors for the City
and County and by any other independent auditor that the City Council and/or
County Commissioners may designate.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.09 REPORTS.
   The Commission shall cause a comprehensive annual report to be prepared
describing the objectives, programs and activities of the Commission and its
staff. This report shall be prepared as of June 30 of each year for the
previous year and shall be submitted to the City Council and Board of County
Commissioners by September 1 of each year. The form and content of the report
shall be determined by the Commission, subject to the right of either governing
body at any time to require a report containing any information (including
supplemental information) on any subject in any format it may reasonably
designate. Special reports and recommendations can be made to (or required by)
the governing bodies as the need arises in the judgment of the Commission or at
the specific request of either governing body.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 31.10 AMENDMENTS AND REPEAL.
   This chapter can be amended by an ordinance passed by both governing bodies,
but can be repealed by an ordinance passed by either governing body at any time
(upon which repeal the Commission shall ipso facto cease to exist and all its
funds shall be vested 1/2 in the General Fund of the City of Henderson and 1/
2 in the General Fund of Vance County).
(Ord. 20, passed 3-7-1983)
CHAPTER 32: STATE OF EMERGENCY REGULATIONS
Section
   
32.01   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
32.02   Proclamation
   
32.03   Curfew
   
32.04   Possession, consumption or transfer of intoxicating liquor
   
32.05   Possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous weapons and
substances
   
32.06   Access to areas
   
32.07   Additional prohibitions or restrictions
   
32.08   Amendments of proclamation
   
32.09   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
32.10   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
32.11   Absence or disability of Chairperson
   
32.12   Territorial applicability
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or during times of public
emergency, for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain
public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or
whenever the occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
county or any part thereof, or threatening damage to or destruction of
property, the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of such a state of emergency and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives rend property of people within the county, to
place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of these restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the county and to specific
hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the
restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of their
respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public
employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and
other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal;
on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within the county.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.02 PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners by proclamation
may impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
32.03 through
32.07 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The
Chairperson may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions
as he or she finds are necessary because of an emergency, to maintain an
acceptable level of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety and
property. The Chairperson shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   (1)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the County Courthouse.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall retain a text of the proclamation and furnish
upon request certified copies of it for use as evidence.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemption the Chairperson finds necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the
exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Chairperson by proclamation
removes the curfew.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.04 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
intoxicating liquor within the area of the county described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of
intoxicating liquor by employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores as well
as by anyone else within the geographic area described.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.05 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND
SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession
off one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance.
      (2)   The Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the restrictions
classes of people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain
dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public
health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE. Means:
         (a)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device, explosive,
gasoline or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a
threat of serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
         (b)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used
to inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and
         (c)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the county or the part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.06 ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his or her subordinates when directed in the proclamation to do
so by the Chairperson. When acting under this authority, the Sheriff and his or
her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway or
location within the county, if that restriction or denial of access or use is
reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or
to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.07 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions, the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.08 AMENDMENTS OF PROCLAMATION.
   The Chairperson may amend or extend the proclamation from time to time,
making those modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include
in the original proclamation. The proclamation shall expire 5 days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.09 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Chairperson shall by proclamation remove the prohibitions and
restrictions as the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed to do
so by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.10 SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Chairperson in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this chapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.11 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners, or such other person as may
be designated by the Board of County Commissioners, shall have and exercise all
of the powers herein given the Chairperson.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.12 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any municipality
or within any area of the county over which the municipality has jurisdiction
to enact general police-power ordinances, unless the municipality by resolution
consents to its application, in which event it shall apply to those areas as
fully and to the same extent as elsewhere in the county.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided by North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 17, passed 4-6-1981)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   LITTER CONTROL
      
51.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
52.   SOLID WASTE GREEN BOX CONTAINERS
CHAPTER 50: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Regulations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any county employee duly authorized to write either
criminal or civil citations.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses, and
recognizable industrial byproducts, but excluding sewage and human waste.
   LITTER. Any quantity of uncontainerized paper, metal, plastic, glass or
miscellaneous solid waste, including but not limited to refuse or garbage.
   NONPUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Solid waste that is not capable of being decomposed by
microorganisms with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and
gases.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, governmental unit, organization, partnership,
corporation or company.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to the following exterior
locations owned by private individuals, firms, corporations, institutions or
organizations: yards, grounds, driveways, entrances, passageways, parking
areas, working areas, storage areas, vacant lots and recreation facilities.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to the following exterior
locations: streets, street medians, roads, road medians, catch basins,
sidewalks, alleys, public rights-of-way, public parking lots, school grounds,
parks, playgrounds, other publicly owned recreation facilities, and county
waterways and bodies of water.
   PUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by microorganisms
with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and gases, such as
kitchen wastes, offal and carcasses.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible waste.
   SOLID WASTE.  Any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse or sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility, domestic sewage and sludge generated by the treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems and other material
that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored or treated prior to
being discarded, or has served its original intended use and is generally
discarded, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial and agricultural
operations, and from community activities.
   WASTE. Useless, unused, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
(Ord. 30, passed 3-8-1999; Am. Ord. 30, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 50.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, discard, dump or
deposit litter in any manner or amount on public or private property in the
county, except in containers or areas lawfully provided therefor.
   (B)   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation by
whatever means, including but not limited to highway, rail, and navigable
waterway, of garbage or refuse containing garbage, shall be covered with a
tarpaulin or similar material or otherwise secured to prevent the loss of the
material when en route to destination.
   (C)   (1)   In the prosecution charging a violation of division (B) of this
section from a motor vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in
the complaint was the origin of the litter, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time of the violation the
registered owner or operator of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a
presumption that the registered owner was the person who committed the
violation.
      (2)   If the civilian Enforcement Officer(s) observes litter being
discarded from a motor vehicle or other types of vehicles, to include bicycles,
boats, etc., the measure of proof shall be the registered owner of said
vehicle. Civil citations will be sent to the registered owner of said vehicle.
   (D)   All manufactured home parks shall comply with §
152.081 of this code of ordinances, which states the owner or his or her
designee shall be responsible for maintaining the park free of litter, debris
and garbage. The owner or occupant of any other property, with exception of
solid waste disposal sites in accordance with the Solid Waste Management Act
and the federal Act, shall be responsible for the sanitary storage of all solid
waste accumulated on the property.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or allow to be
established on his or her land a solid waste management facility, or otherwise
treat, store or dispose of solid waste unless a permit for the facility has
been obtained from the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, Division of Waste Management.
   (F)   A person operating or having operated an open dump for disposal of
solid waste or a person who knowingly owns land on which such an open dump is
or has been operating shall immediately close the site in accordance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Implement effective vector control, including baiting for at least
2 weeks after closing, to prevent vector migration to adjacent properties;
      (2)   If the site is deemed suitable by the County Environmental Manager,
compact and cover existing solid waste in place with 1 foot or more of suitable
compacted earth; a condition of closing the site by compacting and covering the
waste in place shall be the recordation of the waste disposal location by the
property owner with the Register of Deeds in the county;
      (3)   If the site is deemed unsuitable by the county, all solid waste
must be removed and placed in an approved disposal site or facility;
      (4)   Implement erosion control measures by grading and seeding; and
      (5)   Prevent unauthorized entry to the site by means of gates, chains,
berms, fences and other security measures approved by the county, and post
signs indicating closure for a period designated by the Environmental Manager
not to exceed 1 year.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the demolition of a
structure or to remove shingles from a structure without having first secured a
permit from the County Code Enforcement Office.
(Ord. 30, passed 3-8-1999; Am. Ord. 30, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates this chapter in an amount not exceeding
15 pounds and not for commercial purposes is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $500 for the first
offense. Any second or subsequent offense is punishable by a fine of not less
than $500 nor more than $1,000.
      (2)   In addition, the court may require the violator to pick up litter
or perform other labor commensurate with the offense committed.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter in an amount exceeding 15 pounds
but not exceeding 500 pounds and not for commercial purposes is guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $250 nor more than
$1,000. In addition, the court shall require the violator to pick up litter or
perform other community service commensurate with the offense committed.
   (C)   Any person who violates this chapter in an amount exceeding 500 pounds
or in any quantity for commercial purposes, or who discards litter that is
hazardous waste as defined in G.S. § 130A-290, is guilty of a Class I felony.
In addition, the court may order the violator to:
      (1)   Remove or render harmless the litter that he or she discarded in
violation of this chapter at his or her own cost;
      (2)   Repair or restore property damaged by or pay damages for any damage
arising out of his or her discarding litter in violation of this chapter; or
      (3)   Perform community public service relating to the removal of litter
discarded in violation of this chapter or to the restoration of an area
polluted by litter discarded in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   A court may enjoin a violation of this section.
   (E)   If a violation of this section involves the operation of a motor
vehicle, upon a finding of guilt, the court shall forward a record of the
finding to the Department of Transportation, Division of Motor Vehicles, which
shall record a penalty of 1 point on the violator’s driver’s license pursuant
to the point system established by G.S. § 20-16. There shall be no insurance
premium surcharge or assessment of points under the classification plan adopted
pursuant to G.S.§§ 58-36-65 and 58-36-70 for a finding of guilt under this
section.
   (F)   A motor vehicle, vessel, aircraft, container, crane, winch or machine
involved in the disposal of more than 500 pounds of litter in violation of this
section is declared contraband and is subject to seizure and summary forfeiture
to the county.
   (G)   If the person upon whom a notice of violation of this chapter is
served fails, neglects or refuses to remove or properly dispose of or cause to
be removed or properly dispose of any open dump or unsanitary accumulation
within 30 days after receipt of the notice, the County Enforcement Officer
Environmental Manager or his or her authorized representative may apply to the
court having jurisdiction for an injunction and order of abatement. Upon the
request of the owner, lessee or occupant of the lot or land and with the
approval of the County Manager, the Environmental Manager may be authorized to
remedy the violation with the expenses thereof to be charged to and paid by the
person in default; provided, however, that nothing herein shall relieve the
owner, lessee or occupant of his or her responsibility to remedy the violation
required by this chapter.
   (H)   The Enforcement Officer(s) shall have the authority to write civil
citations in the amounts specified in division (I) of this section. Law
Enforcement Officers may issue both criminal and civil citations, but not both
concurrently.
   (I)   Civil penalties.
Accidental/No Environmental Hazard
Non Commercial
First offense                       $50.00
Repeat violation                    $100.00
Commercial
First offense                       $100.00
Repeat offense                      $150.00
Accidental/Environmental Hazard
Non Commercial
First offense                       $100.00 plus cleanup costs
Repeat offense                      $150.00 plus cleanup costs
Commercial
First offense                       $150.00 plus cleanup costs
Repeat offense                      $250.00 plus cleanup costs
Willfully - No Environmental Hazard
Non Commercial
First offense                       $300.00
Repeat offense                      $350.00
Commercial
First offense                       $350.00
Repeat offense                      $450.00
Willfully - Environmental Hazard
Non Commercial
First offense                       $450.00 plus cleanup costs
Repeat offense                      $550.00 plus cleanup costs
Commercial
First offense                       $550.00 plus cleanup costs
Repeat offense                      $750.00 plus cleanup costs
 
(Ord. 30, passed 3-8-1999; Am. Ord. 30, passed 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Landfill administration
   
51.03   Liability
   
51.04   Hours of operation
   
51.05   Collection
   
51.06   Transportation
   
51.07   Disposal
   
51.08   Minimum vehicle requirements
   
51.09   Restrictions; prohibitions; inspection
   
51.10   Landfill disposal fees
   
51.11   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material.
   BAG. Thirty-gallon capacity, 2-1/4 Mil with reinforced seams.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of County Commissioners of Vance County.
   BUILDING RUBBISH. Rubbish from construction, remodeling and repair
operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including but
not limited to excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete and
waste parts occasioned by installation and replacements.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessary incident thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Sawdust, shavings, feathers, excelsior, cartons, boxes,
metal, glass, paper, wood, textiles, chemicals, plastic or other waste
materials from processing plants, factories or manufacturing operations.
   INDUSTRY. A place of business employing more than 10 individuals and engaged
in the manufacture or assembly of a product or products.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, governmental unit, organization, partnership,
corporation or company.
   REFUSE. Solid waste, including but not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes
and trash.
   REFUSE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects or transports refuse or any
person, firm or corporation who hauls any solid waste, other than one who
removes refuse from his or her own premises, or who hauls any solid waste other
than his or her own.
   RUBBISH. Refuse (exclusive of garbage and ashes) including but not limited
to paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree, bush
and hedge branches, cutting and trimmings, year trimmings, grass, leaves, tin
cans, metals, small mineral matter, glass, crockery, dirt, earth and trash.
   SELF-UNLOADING VEHICLE. Any vehicle which does not have to be unloaded
manually.
   SOLID WASTE. Refuse, including but not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes
and trash.
   WASTE. Useless, unused, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 51.02 LANDFILL ADMINISTRATION.
   Supervision of the county landfill(s) shall be the responsibility of a
Landfill Supervisor. The Landfill Supervisor’s duties shall include but not be
limited to operating the landfill according to the rules and regulations
contained in the chapter, designing fill locations, monitoring loads of solid
waste, controlling the speed and operation of vehicles at the facility and
conducting the activities of the landfill in the interest of public health,
safety and protection of the environment. The Supervisor shall see that all
solid waste is covered daily with a 6-inch layer of compact earth. In addition
to the Landfill Supervisor, additional personnel and equipment may be
authorized for the operation of the landfill as may be determined by the County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 51.03 LIABILITY.
   As a public service, the county’s landfill(s) may be used by private
citizens at the time and under the conditions set forth in this chapter. While
the county offers this convenience, the county shall not be responsible for
damage to private property nor personal injury which may occur on the site.
Neither the county nor its employees shall be liable for damage to private
vehicles or personal injury to persons using the county’s landfill.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 51.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The landfill(s) shall normally be open 8 hours, Monday through Saturday. The
landfill shall not be open for public use on Sunday or any holidays except by
specific authority of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 51.05 COLLECTION.
   The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any premises upon which garbage is
stored shall remove or cause to be removed all garbage from the premises at
least once a week. Refuse collectors shall remove all refuse from the premises,
when they receive compensation for this service. The work shall be done in a
clean and orderly manner. Any refuse that is spilled shall be cleaned up and
the premises left in a sanitary condition.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 TRANSPORTATION.
   No refuse collector shall transport refuse in a conveyance that has not been
approved by the Health Director. The conveyance shall be leak-proof and covered
with a canvas or other substantial material, unless it is constructed in such a
manner as to prevent leakage or spillage of the refuse. Truck beds in which
garbage is hauled shall be cleaned daily.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No refuse collector or other person shall dispose of refuse, except by
1 of the following methods:
      (1)   Burying it in a safe and sanitary manner approved by the Health
Director;
      (2)   By burning refuse in an incinerator of a type approved by the
Health Director as safe and sanitary; or
      (3)   By burying refuse in a sanitary landfill that is designed, operated
and equipped in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A and any other applicable
local or state law.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prevent any person from
properly disposing of refuse from his or her own residence or business
establishment.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 MINIMUM VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle shall be allowed to deposit waste at the landfill
unless the waste is enclosed in the vehicle or otherwise covered by some
effective means.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         EFFECTIVE MEANS. Durable, heavy plastic or canvas with tie-downs and
grommets in order to hold the covering in place.
      (3)   The Landfill Supervisor shall determine the adequacy of the
covering, and his or her decision shall be final.
   (B)   All vehicles used to collect, transport and deposit waste in the
county’s landfill may be required to supply information giving the name and
address of the owner of the vehicle, the source and type of waste to be
deposited and the weight and size of the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   All vehicles which are not self-unloading shall arrive at the
county’s landfill no later than 1 hour before the close of the normal operating
day.
      (2)   Vehicles with bodies greater than 10 feet length or capacity of
more than 1-1/2 tons which are not self-unloading may be required to be
equipped with a cable pull-out unloading method.
      (3)   Vehicles which are not self-unloading will be subject to control by
the Landfill Supervisor so as to minimize vehicle congestion and provide easy
access to the fill site for self-unloading vehicles.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 RESTRICTIONS; PROHIBITIONS; INSPECTION.
   (A)   No open burning of materials deposited in the landfill(s) will be
permitted. Waste brought to the county landfill shall be observed and inspected
for prohibited materials. The hauler may be required to remove unacceptable
materials at the discretion of the Landfill Supervisor.
   (B)   The following shall not be acceptable for deposit in the landfill(s):
      (1)   Sludges and other semi-solid fluids;
      (2)   Containers containing unacceptable waste;
      (3)   Logs and large limbs of 4 inches or more in diameter and more than
6 feet in length;
      (4)   Automobile and truck bodies;
      (5)   Metal drums of more than 30 gallons capacity, unless the top and
bottom have been removed;
      (6)   Poison of any nature;
      (7)   Hot ashes;
      (8)   Explosives of any kind;
      (9)   Nuclear waste or waste containing radioactive substances; and
      (10)   Tires which are not sliced or quartered.
   (C)   Harmful materials must be separated so they can be disposed of in the
proper manner by the producer.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 LANDFILL DISPOSAL FEES.
   (A)   Landfill disposal fees are as follows:
      (1)   $0.45 per cubic yard; and
      (2)   Minimum charge: Cars or trucks 1/2 ton or less (handling personal
refuse): $0.50 per load.
   (B)   These fees may be changed from time to time by the Board of County
Commissioners to reflect the actual cost of disposal.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 51.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These rules and regulations shall be in full force and effect from and after
July 5, 1978.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, including the
placing, discarding, disposing, leaving or dumping of the articles forbidden by
this chapter, for each day or portion thereof the articles or matter are left
shall constitute a separate offense. A person in violation of this chapter
shall be punished by fine of $100 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or both
for each offense.
(Ord. 13, passed 7-3-1978)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE GREEN BOX CONTAINERS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of containers; liability
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Vance County.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as furniture, large automobile
parts, automobiles, trees, branches, stumps and other oversize wastes, whose
large size precludes or complicates their handling by normal solid waste
collection, processing or disposal methods.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste (or the materials that have been
separated for the purpose of recycling) to a transfer station, processing
facility or disposal facility.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by stores,
offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities,
excluding residential and industrial waste.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on buildings or other
structures, but does not include inert debris, land-clearing debris, yard
debris or used asphalt mixed with dirt, sand gravel, rock, concrete or similar
nonhazardous materials.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources or
its successor.
   FURNITURE. Chairs, sofas, tables and other bulky items that are useful for a
room.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, including animal offal and carcasses, and
recognizable industrial byproducts, but excluding sewage and human waste.
   GREEN BOX CONTAINERS. Containers or dumpsters used for the temporary storage
of solid waste while awaiting collection.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid waste, or a combination of solid waste that because
of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
and increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, storage, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. Solid waste generated by residential dwellings.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Unwanted chemical material from the home that
can harm the homeowner, other people or the environment, when improperly stored
or discarded.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by industrial processes and
manufacturing.
   INERT DEBRIS. Solid waste that consists solely of material that is virtually
inert and that is likely to retain its physical and chemical structure under
expected conditions of disposal.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE.  Solid waste generated by educational,
healthcare, correctional and other institutional facilities.
   LAND-CLEARING DEBRIS. Solid waste that is generated solely from land-
clearing activities.
   LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a disposal facility where waste is
placed in or on land, and that is not a land treatment facility, a surface
impoundment, and injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage facility
or a surface storage facility.
   MANNED CONVENIENT SITE. A site, which is staffed during operations hours,
that is used for the temporary storage of household garbage, bulky items
(excluding automobiles, trees, branches and stumps) and recyclable materials
while awaiting collection.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Any solid waste that is generated in the diagnosis, treatment
or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining thereto, or
in the production or testing of biologicals; but does not include any hazardous
waste, radioactive waste, household waste as defined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.4(b)
(1), or those substances excluded from the definition of solid waste in this
chapter.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
      (1)   Solid waste resulting from the generation of residential,
commercial, industrial, governmental or institutional establishments that
normally are collected, processed and disposed of through a public or private
solid waste management service.
      (2)   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE does not include hazardous waste, sludge or
solid waste from mining or agricultural operations.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any publicly- or privately-owned
solid waste management facility permitted by the Department that receives
municipal solid waste for processing, treatment or disposal.
   PATHOLOGICAL WASTE. Human tissues, organs and body parts, and the carcasses
and body parts of any animals that were known or expected to have been exposed
to pathogens that are potentially dangerous to humans during research, were
used in the production of biologicals or in vitro testing of pharmaceuticals,
or that died with known or suspected disease transmissible to humans.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, unit
of local government, state agency, federal agency or other legal entity.
   PESTICIDE CONTAINERS. Any receptacle or container designed to package
pesticides.
   PESTICIDES. Chemicals used to destroy, prevent or control any pest,
including chemicals used to attract or repel pests and chemicals used to
regulate plant growth or remove or coat plant leaves.
   PROCESSING. Any technique designed to change the physical, chemical or
biological character or composition of any solid waste so as to render it safe
for transport; amenable to recovery, storage or recycling; safe for disposal;
or reduced in volume or concentration.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with
sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and gases, such as kitchen
wastes, offal and animal carcasses.
   RECYCLING.  The process by which solid waste or recovered materials are
collected, separated or processed, and reused or returned to use in the form of
raw materials or other acceptable reuses.
   REFUSE. Solid waste other than garbage or ashes, from residences, commercial
establishments and institutions.
   REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE. Blood and body fluids in individual containers in
volumes greater than 20 ml, microbiological waste and pathological waste that
has not been treated pursuant to rules promulgated by the Department.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with the rules concerning SANITARY LANDFILLS
adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9.
   SCAVENGING. Going through the green box containers for the purpose of
removing items and identifying what is being placed in the green box
containers.
   SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original, intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   SEPTAGE. Solid waste that is a fluid mixture of untreated and partially
treated sewage solids, liquids and sludge of human or domestic origin that is
removed from a septic tank system.
   SHARPS. Needles, syringes and scalpel blades.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid or liquid waste generated from municipal,
commercial, institutional or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution characteristics and effects.
   SOLID WASTE.
      (1)   Any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse or sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution facility;
domestic sewage and sludges generated by the treatment thereof in sanitary
sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems; and other material that is
either discarded or is being accumulated, stored or treated prior to being
discarded, or contains gaseous material resulting from industrial,
institutional, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Fecal waste from fowls and animals other than humans;
         (b)   Solid or dissolved material in:
            1.   Domestic sewage and sludges generated by treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems that are designed to
discharge effluents to the surface waters;
            2.   Irrigation return flows; and
            3.   Wastewater discharges and the sludges incidental to and
generated by treatment which are point sources subject to permits granted under
§ 402 of the Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (Pub. L. No. 92-500) (33
U.S.C. § 1342), and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the Environmental
Management Commission. However, any sludges that meet the criteria for
hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the purposes of this
definition.
         (c)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Chapter
143, Article 21A. However, any oils or other liquid hydrocarbons that meet the
criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the
purposes of this definition;
         (d)   Any source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined by
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 2011); or
         (e)   Mining refuse covered by the North Carolina Mining Act, G.S. §
74-46 and regulated by the North Carolina Mining Commission. However, any
specific mining waste under RCRA shall be a SOLID WASTE for the purpose of this
definition.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects or transports solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A location at which solid waste is disposed of by
incineration, sanitary landfill or other approved method.
   TIRE. A continuous solid or pneumatic rubber covering encircling the wheel
of a motor vehicle as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(23).
   USED OIL. Any oil that has been refined from crude oil or synthetic oil and,
as a result of use storage or handling, has become unsuitable for its original
purpose.
   WHITE GOODS. Inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water heaters,
freezers and other similar domestic and commercial appliances.
   YARD TRASH. Solid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance.
(Ord. 24, passed 5-1-1993)
§ 52.02 USE OF CONTAINERS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Liability. As a public service, the Board of County Commissioners has
provided certain green box containers for the use of the citizens and residents
of the county. While the county offers this convenience, the county or the
landowner, where the green box containers are located, shall not be responsible
for damage to private property nor personal injury which may occur on the site
of these green box containers. Neither the county nor its employees shall be
liable for damages to private vehicles or personal injury or persons using the
county’s green box containers.
   (B)   Accepted materials. The materials allowed to be deposited into the
green box containers shall be limited to customary items of household garbage.
   (C)   Prohibited uses and materials.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to deposit in any county-owned green box
container or at any green box container site the following:
         (a)   Bulky waste;
         (b)   Poisons of any nature;
         (c)   Hot ashes;
         (d)   Explosives of any kind;
         (e)   Hazardous waste or waste containing radioactive substances;
         (f)   Industrial solid waste;
         (g)   Commercial solid waste;
         (h)   Construction and demolition waste;
         (i)   Garbage as defined in this chapter;
         (j)   Land-clearing debris;
         (k)   Medical waste;
         (1)   Pathological waste;
         (m)   Inert debris;
         (n)   Scrap tires;
         (o)   Septage;
         (p)   Sludge;
         (q)   Used motor oil;
         (r)   Liquids;
         (s)   White goods;
         (t)   Yard trash;
         (u)   Pesticides;
         (v)   Pesticide containers; or
         (w)   Furniture.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any of the following
acts:
         (a)   Scavenging and removing any items from the green box containers,
except unacceptable materials as described in division (C) of this section,
placed in the green box containers or at the container sites by that person;
         (b)   Intentionally defile, deface, destroy or otherwise vandalize or
abuse the green box containers, container sites, signs, fences or any other
equipment or facilities located at the container sites;
         (c)   Loiter and/or congregate on any container site after having
deposited solid waste at the site, or without the need or apparent intention to
do so;
         (d)   Leave a vehicle unattended on any container site. Any vehicle
left unattended shall be towed away at the owner’s expense;
         (e)   Set or cause to or be set any fire in a green box container or
container site;
         (f)   Climb on, around or inside of a green box container;
         (g)   Move a green box container from its assigned location without
authorization; or
         (h)   Open bags or other binding which contain solid waste materials
either inside a container or at a container site.
      (3)   The green box containers shall not be utilized by persons engaged
in the collection of solid waste for compensation. Further, the containers
shall not be utilized by persons for deposit of commercial, industrial or
construction waste.
(Ord. 24, passed 5-1-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter including the placing,
scavenging, discarding, disposing, leaving or dumping of articles forbidden by
the chapter, for each day or portion thereof the articles or matter are left,
shall constitute a separate offense. That person in violation of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of $100 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or
both for each offense.
(Ord. 24, passed 5-1-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Registration of mobile homes, house trailers and the like
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 REGISTRATION OF MOBILE HOMES, HOUSE TRAILERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Registration. All mobile homes, house trailers and similar vehicular
equipment designed for use as living or business quarters must be registered
annually with the County Tax Collector.
   (B)   Time of registration.
      (1)   Registration must be made during business hours from January 1
through February 28 of each year.
      (2)   Should any vehicle not so registered be purchased or moved within
the county during the calendar year, the owner must register the mobile home or
other vehicle covered under this section within 30 days of the purchase or
moving of the vehicle within the county.
   (C)   Evidence of registration.
      (1)   All mobile homes or vehicles required to be registered under this
section must display a sticker of registration at all times after the vehicle
is registered.
      (2)   This registration sticker will be issued to the person registering
any mobile home or vehicle covered under this section.
   (D)   Fee. There will be no fee imposed for the registration of any mobile
home or other vehicle covered under this section.
(Ord. 8, passed 1-1-1976) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
   (B)   Failure to register any mobile home or other vehicle required to be
registered under §
70.01 or the failure to display a valid registration sticker (1 issued during
the current year) shall be a misdemeanor punishable as authorized under G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. 8, passed 1-1-1976)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Parking on Land of Board of Education
   
71.01   Unlawful acts
   
71.02   Definition
   
71.03   Mopeds
   
71.04   Prosecution
   
71.05   Effective
 
   
71.99   Penalty
PARKING ON LAND OF BOARD OF EDUCATION
§ 71.01 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which is
self-propelled and designed to run upon the highways, roads or terrain of this
state, whether the motor vehicles shall or shall not be required to be
registered with the North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of
Motor Vehicles in conformity with the provisions of G.S. § 20-50, and which
vehicles shall hereafter be popularly known as “go-carts,” “3-wheelers,” “4-
wheelers,” “dune buggies,” or “all-terrain” vehicles, upon the land owned by
the County Board of Education. The operation thereof by any person, whether
licensed or unlicensed for the operation of motor vehicles by the Department of
Transportation, Division of Motor Vehicles upon that land shall be a
misdemeanor as defined in G.S. § 14-4(b).
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ONE WHO OPERATES A VEHICLE hereinabove described or who acts as an OPERATOR
OF A VEHICLE. A person in actual physical control of a vehicle which is in
motion or which has the engine running. The terms OPERATOR and DRIVER and their
cognates are synonymous.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 71.03 MOPEDS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the operation of mopeds (vehicles as
described in G.S. § 20-4.01(27dl) shall not be construed as a vehicle
prohibited from coming upon the lands so long as the vehicle shall be operated
upon the paved driveway and access areas for the school, but the vehicle may
not be operated or otherwise driven upon the sidewalks, grounds, athletic
fields or other common areas owned by the Board of Education at its schools,
and not otherwise off of the portions of the premises used as roads, driveways
or parking lots.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PROSECUTION.
   In the prosecution of violations of this subchapter, county ordinances shall
be pleaded and proved under the rules and procedures of G.S. § 160A-79, and all
pertinent provisions as set forth in G.S. § 153A-50.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 71.05 EFFECTIVE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon passage by the Board of County
Commissioners, and upon compliance with the provisions of G.S. § 153A-45.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall operate a motor vehicle of the kind hereinabove
described in §
71.01, and the operation of such shall result in damage to personal property,
real property or fixtures located upon the lands of the County Board of
Education, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined by G.S. §
14-4(a).
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking on County-Owned Property
   
72.01   Title
   
72.02   Purpose
   
72.03   Territorial jurisdiction
   
72.04   Definitions
   
72.05   Stopping, standing and parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING ON COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY
§ 72.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Vance County
Ordinance Regulating Parking of Motor Vehicles on County-Owned Property or this
subchapter.
(Ord. 32, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 72.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt and provide uniform regulations
for the parking of motor vehicles on county-owned property.
(Ord. 32, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 72.03 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to all county-owned property wherever
located.
(Ord. 32, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 72.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle, as defined below in this section. The
terms DRIVER and OPERATOR and their cognates are synonyms.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of a vehicle which is in
motion or which has the engine running. The terms OPERATOR and DRIVER and their
cognates are synonyms.
   OWNER. The person holding the legal title to a vehicle. Any mortgagor,
conditional vendor or lessee of a vehicle vested with the right of immediate
possession of the vehicle shall be deemed to be the OWNER for the purpose of
this subchapter.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PERSON. Every individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency or combination thereof of whatsoever form or character.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway; provided, that for the purposes of this
subchapter, bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES and every rider of a bicycle upon
county-owned property used as a parking lot or area shall be subject to the
provisions of this subchapter applicable to the driver of a VEHICLE, except
those by which by their nature can have no application.
   WAY OF TRAVEL.
      (1)   The areas not marked for parking in county-owned parking lots which
provide the means of access to those parking spaces.
      (2)   Directional arrows when painted in these areas indicate the
permitted direction that a motor vehicle must travel.
(Ord. 32, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 72.05 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING.
   (A)   On any county-owned lot which is marked off with lines or other
devices indicating the parking spaces for motor vehicles, any vehicle parked
there must be parked between the lines or other devices used to indicate the
parking spaces.
   (B)   No vehicle shall stop in any parking lot except for the purpose of
parking as prescribed in this subchapter, unless the stop is made necessary by
the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, by the passing of some other
vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a law enforcement officer or a traffic-control device, in any of
the following places of a county-owned parking lot:
      (1)   On any sidewalk or crosswalk;
      (2)   Within any entryway or driveway to the lot;
      (3)   On a designated fire lane; or
      (4)   On or within any way of travel in a lot so as to block or prevent
other traffic from passing thereon; except as may be necessary while actually
loading or unloading.
   (D)   When authorized signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
that parking is prohibited, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on an
area of a county-owned parking lot so posted.
   (E)   Where authorized signs, symbols or diagrams are placed, erected or
installed, giving notice that parking is prohibited during certain periods of
time, or for longer than stated periods of time, no person shall park a vehicle
during the prohibited parking periods or for longer than the stated parking
period; and the changing of the position of a vehicle from 1 parking space
directly to another parking space or back to the same parking space within the
same parking lot shall be deemed 1 continuous parking period.
   (F)   Where authorized signs, symbols or diagrams are placed, erected or
installed, giving notice of a loading zone, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle except for the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers or
loading or unloading cargo.
   (G)   Where authorized signs, symbols, numbers or diagrams are placed,
erected or installed, giving notice that parking is reserved for certain
persons or classes of persons, or certain purposes, no person shall stop or
stand a vehicle unless that person be one for whom the parking is reserved, or
unless the vehicle was parked for the reserved purpose.
   (H)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended in any county-owned parking lot or area without first stopping
the engine. (This item excludes law enforcement vehicles equipped with
canines.)
(Ord. 32, passed 6-4-2001)
   (I)   In the event a vehicle described in §
71.01 shall be found or located upon the lands of the County Board of Education
in violation of §§
71.01 through
71.05, or in the event the vehicle shall be found abandoned upon the lands of
the County Board of Education, the vehicle may be removed from the property by
an agent of the County Board of Education to a storage area or garage; and if
the vehicle is so removed, the owner, as a condition of regaining possession of
the vehicle, shall be required to pay the county all reasonable costs
incidental to the removal and storage of the vehicle and any fine or penalty
due for the violation in conformity with the provisions of G.S. § 153A-170.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.05 shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be required to pay a
penalty of not more than $50 as authorized by G.S. § 14-4(b).
      (2)   Any vehicles parked in violation of this subchapter may be removed
from the property at the direction of the County Manager to a storage area or
garage. If a vehicle is so removed, the owner, as a condition of regaining
possession of the motor vehicle, shall be required to pay to the county all
reasonable costs incidental to the removal and storage of the vehicle and any
penalty due for the violation, as authorized by G.S. § 153A-170.
      (3)   The prima facie rule of evidence created by G.S. § 20-162.1 is
incorporated herein by this reference and made applicable to prosecution for
violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 32, passed 6-4-2001)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ARCHIVE AND HISTORICAL COLLECTION
      
92.   RECREATION
      
93.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
94.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
95.   OPEN BURNING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions; Animal Services
   
90.001   Creation of Animal Services Department
   
90.002   Advisory Committee
   
90.003   Duties
   
90.004   Definitions
   
90.005   Rabies vaccination
   
90.006   Rabies vaccination and control
   
90.007   Public nuisance prohibited
   
90.008   Vicious animals
   
90.009   Acts resulting in injury or death of dogs
   
90.010   Cruel treatment
   
90.011   Impounding animals
   
90.012   Redemption procedure for impounded animals
   
90.013   Interference
   
90.014   Records
   
90.015   Scope of regulations
   
90.016   Effective date
   
90.017   Dogs under direct control
Dog Tax
   
90.050   Establishment
   
90.051   Applicability
   
90.052   Rate
   
90.053   Payment
   
90.054   Failure to list
Keeping Wild, Vicious and Exotic Animals
   
90.065   Definitions
   
90.066   Primary and secondary enclosures required
   
90.067   Permit required
   
90.068   Liability insurance required
   
90.069   Duties of Animal Services Officer
   
90.070   Inspections
   
90.071   Additional standards
   
90.072   Deficiencies
   
90.073   Enforcement
   
90.074   Reporting of escapes
   
90.075   Reporting of changes
   
90.076   Transfer of possession or ownership
   
90.077   Tranquilizing and annihilating equipment required
   
90.078   Transport and exhibition
   
90.079   Release of animals prohibited
   
90.080   Experienced person required
   
90.081   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
90.082   Humane treatment
   
90.083   Exemption for traveling shows
Hunting
   
90.100   Trapping of foxes
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; ANIMAL SERVICES
§ 90.001 CREATION OF ANIMAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Animal Services Department of Vance County
which shall be composed of such employees as shall be determined by the Board
of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The employees shall be appointed and compensated in accordance with
the policies of the Board of County Commissioners.
((Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019) 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.002 ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created an advisory committee to advise the Board of County
Commissioners with respect to animal services matters. The advisory committee
is to be composed of 7 members to be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners. Although this advisory committee serves at the pleasure of the
Board of County Commissioners, it will submit its recommendations to the Animal
Services Committee of the Board of County Commissioners and/or to the County
Manager as appropriate. The advisory committee is prohibited from becoming
involved in the daily operations or personnel administration of the Animal
Services Department unless given official direction by the Board of County
Commissioners. The Chief Animal Services Officer will be the staff liaison for
the advisory committee.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.003 DUTIES.
   The Animal Services Department shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing in Vance County all federal, state or county laws,
ordinances and resolutions relating to the care, treatment, custody and control
of animals;
   (B)   Cooperating with the Health Director and assisting in the enforcement
of the laws of the state with regard to animals, and especially with regard to
vaccination of dogs against rabies and the confinement or leashing of vicious
animals (without limiting the foregoing, reference is particularly made to the
state laws as set out and contained in G.S. Chapter 67, Articles 1 and 2, §§
106-364 to 106-387 and 153A-153);
   (C)   Investigating cruelty or animal abuse with regard to dogs, cats,
equines and other animals; and
   (D)   Operating pursuant to policies of the Board of County Commissioners,
the N.C. Animal Welfare Act, and the advice of the N.C. Department of
Agriculture.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal that habitually and repeatedly roams
from the owner’s property and causes damage to the property of another is a
PUBLIC NUISANCE. A female dog running at large while in heat is a PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The place designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when off the property of
its owner and not under the control of a competent person, to include the back
of a truck unleashed.
   EQUINES. Animals of, relating to, or belonging to the family of Equidae,
which comprises horses, donkeys and zebras.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal shall be deemed to have been EXPOSED TO RABIES
within the meaning of this subchapter if it has been bitten by any animal known
or suspected to have rabies.
   KENNEL, DEALER, BREEDER or PET SHOP.  Any person, partnership, or
corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding pet animals,
except those maintained by a veterinarian.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male that has been operated upon to prevent reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal. The owner is responsible for the care, actions and behavior
of his or her animal or animals.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this
subchapter if controlled by a leash-like device or sufficiently near the owner/
handler to be under his or her control.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female that has been operated upon to prevent conception.
   VACCINATED REQUIRED ANIMAL. Any animal listed in G.S. § 130A-185(a) as
amended. updated and replaced, required to be vaccinated. (Currently these are
a cat, dog or ferret over 4 months of age).
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.005 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vaccinated required animal
listed in G.S. § 130A-185(a) over 4 months of age to fail to comply with the
state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   Unless proof of vaccination is available, it shall be the duty of the
Animal Services Department to give a rabies vaccination to every vaccinated
required animal 4 months of age or older adopted from the animal shelter.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 RABIES VACCINATION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Proof required. It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to show
proof of current vaccination against rabies in accordance with regulations
adopted by North Carolina Commission for Health Services on demand of the
Animal Services Officer or other law enforcement personnel.
   (B)   Bite cases: duty of owner. Every vaccinated required animal which has
bitten or scratched (per Health Director) any human or which shows signs of
rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Services Department in addition to the County Director of Public Health,
by its owners or persons having the animal in charge, and thereupon shall be
securely quarantined at the direction of the County Director of Public Health
for a period of 10 days, and shall not be released from such quarantine except
by written permission from the Health Director and Animal Services Department.
The biting, and/or scratching animal and its records of vaccination and
registration shall be inspected by the Animal Services Officer who will then
observe the following policy:
      (1)   A properly vaccinated animal may be confined on the owner’s
premises provided, however, that the owner has an adequate means of confinement
upon their own premises and the animal is subject to observation by the officer
at any time during the 10-day period.
      (2)   A vaccinated required animal not properly vaccinated, belonging to
an owner, shall immediately be confined by the County Animal Shelter, in which
case the expense shall be borne by the owner of the animal for the ten day
confinement. The animal shall not be vaccinated during confinement.
      (3)   Bite quarantined animals not reclaimed with 72 hours after the end
of quarantine period will be considered abandoned and will be treated as a
surrendered animal to the Animal Shelter immediately available for disposition.
   (C)   Surrender for the quarantine required on demand. Except as provided in
division (B) above, it shall be unlawful for the owner of an animal which has
bitten a human to refuse to surrender said animal for the purpose of supervised
quarantine by the Animal Services Department upon demand. The expense of said
supervised quarantine shall be borne by the owner. If rabies does not develop
within the 10-day period, the animal may be reclaimed upon payment of a
boarding fee as provided in §
90.012, and upon compliance with other provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Rabies diagnosed. If an animal dies while under observation for
rabies, then the head of such animal shall be submitted to the State
Laboratory.
   (E)   Emergency quarantine and procedure. When reports indicate a positive
diagnosis of rabies, the County Director of Public Health may order an area-
wide quarantine for a period as he or she deems necessary; and upon invoking
such emergency quarantine by the said Health Director, no animal shall run at
large during such time. During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or
shipped from the county without written permission from the Animal Services
Department. No animal which has been impounded may be adopted from the Animal
Shelter during the period of emergency rabies quarantine, except by special
authorization of the public health officials. Animals bitten by a known rabid
animal shall be immediately destroyed unless the owner agrees to strict
isolation of the animal in the Animal Shelter or at a veterinary hospital for a
period of 4 months; or provided however in the event said animal has a current
rabies vaccination, and if given a booster vaccination it may be returned to
its owner.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit his animal to be a public
nuisance if such animal is reported as creating a public nuisance, provided the
Animal Services Officer (or dog warden) determines after investigation that the
reports are supported by the evidence and provided that the Animal Services
Officer has notified the owner in writing of his finding. In such cases, and
only in such cases, the owner must keep the animal that has been found to be
creating a public nuisance on his property at all times unless the animal is
under restraint or is sufficiently near his handler to be under his direct
control and is obedient to that person’s command. Animals found to be running
at large after having been found to be a public nuisance as set out above will
be impounded. The owner may re-claim his animal in accordance with §
90.012, and upon compliance with the other provisions of this subchapter. Said
owner shall also be subject to such other penalties as are prescribed for such
violation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep an animal in an area that
is in an unsanitary condition and/or causes offensive odors on the property of
others.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to create a public nuisance or health hazard in a
neighborhood by housing multiple animals in small spaces that lacks proper
sanitation; for example, 10 cats in a 2-room apartment or 5 dogs in a 2-room
apartment. Any citizen in violation of this shall be subject to prosecution by
the Animal Services Officer.
   (D)   A stray dog shall be immediately confined in the County Animal Shelter
for a 3-day period before being eligible for adoption.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep a vicious, fierce or dangerous
animal unless it is confined within a secure building or enclosure, not
including underground fences, or unless it is securely muzzled and under
restraint by a competent and capable person who, by means of a leash, chain, or
rope has such animal firmly under control at all times.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Wild and exotic animals, see §§
90.065 et seq.
§ 90.009 ACTS RESULTING IN INJURY OR DEATH OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring or killing a dog by
running over or into same, or coming into contact with same with automobile,
motorcycle, bicycle, or other vehicle to fail to notify immediately the owner
of said dog, the Animal Shelter or other law enforcement personnel by phone/
answering machine.
   (B)   Any citizen in violation of the above shall be guilty of cruel
treatment and subject to prosecution and/or a citation.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 CRUEL TREATMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound, injure,
poison, abandon, or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general
welfare of any animal or to cause or procure such action. The words TORTURE,
TORMENT, or CRUELLY shall be held to include every act of omission or neglect
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or
permitted; however nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
otherwise lawful shooting, hunting, or trapping of birds or animals nor to
prohibit the Animal Services Department or veterinarians from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
   (B)   An animal may not be restricted or confined in such a way that it
cannot seek relief from extreme temperatures, the sun, and/or the elements. All
animals under the care, custody or control of an owner shall be given adequate
food, water, shelter from winter weather, and shade in summer.
      (1)   All water receptacles shall be kept clean and free of contaminants
and be positioned or affixed to minimize spillage.
      (2)   Animals are to be fed daily or as recommended. Feed shall be
provided in sufficient quantity and be of appropriate and sufficient
nutritional value (wholesome, palatable, and free from contamination such as
feces, mold, mildew, insects, and other contaminating substances).
   (C)   Adequate shelter must include at least 3 sides and a roof, allow
proper air circulation, and have sufficient room for the animal(s) to move
about freely and to lie down comfortably. The following arrangements do not
constitute adequate shelter and protection during extreme or inclement weather
conditions:
      (1)   Underneath exterior steps, stoops, or similar structures;
      (2)   Inside of vehicles;
      (3)   Underneath vehicles;
      (4)   Inside cardboard boxes; and
      (5)   Inside buildings or rooms within buildings without proper air
circulation.
   (D)   Animals over 12 weeks of age, except females with litters, housed in
enclosures must be provided a minimum floor space for that animal determined as
follows: (length of animal in inches plus 6) x (length of animal in inches plus
6) divided by 144 = minimum enclosure floor space in square feet required for
each animal in an enclosure. The animal shall be measured from the tip of the
nose to the base of its tail.
   (E)   No animal shall be confined to an area that does not provide space for
exercise as necessary to reduce stress and maintain good physical condition.
Space and provision for exercise must be appropriate and sufficient for age,
breed/type, quality, condition, and size of the animal and at a minimum shall
provide two times the minimum enclosure floor space required in §
90.010(D) for each animal.
   (F)   No animal shall be restrained with a chain that is unduly heavy (over
1 pound per foot).
   (G)   All animals will be afforded immediate veterinary care at the expense
of the owner or caretaker if there is a known or suspected injury or illness
that should require professional medical treatment.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   Any animal found in violation of this subchapter may be confined in the
Animal Shelter for redemption by the owner, sale or destruction.
   (A)   Sale or destruction. Animals not redeemed within 3 days after being
taken into custody, may be sold for adoption or destroyed in a humane manner by
the Animal Services Department. If an animal is considered by the Animal
Services Department to be adoptable and active adoption efforts are underway,
it may be maintained so long as space is available.
   (B)   Notifying owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal
Services Department shall make reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform
such owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (C)   Unspayed female dogs and cats. The Animal Services Department shall
require that all adopted female dogs and cats released from the Animal Shelter
be spayed or neutered.
   (D)   Suspected rabies. Animals impounded which have been bitten by a rabid
animal or appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or sold, but
shall be dealt with as provided in §
90.006.
   (E)   Other diseased or injured animals. Any animal impounded which is badly
wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and has no identification and is not
adoptable, shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of immediately in a humane
manner. If the animal has identification, the Animal Services Department shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of such animal; but if the owner
cannot be reached readily, and the animal is suffering, the Animal Services
Department may destroy or dispose of the animal at its discretion in a humane
manner. As used herein, “otherwise disposed” may include giving the animal to
rescue group who the Animal Services Department reasonably believes has the
necessary resources and medical ability to provide care for the animal.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.012 REDEMPTION PROCEDURE FOR IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)    When any animal has been impounded at the Animal Shelter, notice
thereof shall be given to the owner if known or reasonably able to be
determined. Except as otherwise provided in state law, a person who comes to an
animal shelter attempting to locate a lost pet is entitled to view every animal
held at the shelter, subject to rules providing for such viewing during at
least 4 hours a day, 3 days a week. If the shelter is housing animals that must
be kept apart from the general public for health reasons, public safety
concerns, or in order to preserve evidence for criminal proceedings, the
shelter shall make reasonable arrangements that allow pet owners to determine
whether their lost pets are among those animals. If the shelter is housing
animals in foster care at least one photograph depicting the head and face of
the animal shall be displayed at the shelter in a conspicuous location that is
available to the general public during hours of operation, and that photograph
shall remain posted until the animal is disposed of as allowed herein.
   (B)   Owners shall be entitled to resume possession of their animal except
as hereinbefore provided upon compliance with state law, provision of required
identification, the provisions of this subchapter and payment of shelter fees
incurred.
      Citation Fees:
         First citation for violation of ordinance   $50
         Second citation for violation of ordinance (within 1-year
period)   $75
         Third and subsequent citations for violation of ordinance (within 1-
year period)   $100
      Equine Citation Fees:
         First citation for violation   $50
         Second citation for violation (within 1-year period)   $50
         Third and subsequent citations for violation (within 1-year
period)   $100
      Vaccination Fee:
         Rabies vaccine   $5
      Rescue Pull Fees:
         Dog (per dog)   $20
         Puppy (per puppy)   $5
      Miscellaneous Fees:
         Boarding (per day)   $10
         Vet fees   As incurred
         Feed fees   As incurred
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.013 INTERFERENCE.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
Animal Services Department or its agents, or Animal Services Officers or
veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by this subchapter, or
to seek to release any animal in the custody as herein provided.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.014 RECORDS.
    It shall be the duty of the Animal Services Department to keep, or cause to
be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
   (A)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the Animal
Shelter;
   (B)   Bite cases, violations, and complaint investigations;
   (C)   All monies derived from impoundment fees, penalties, and sales of
animals
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.015 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to that part of Vance County not located
within a city. However, the governing board of any city located within Vance
County may by resolution permit this subchapter to be applicable within said
city.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 90.016 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be and become effective from and after the date of its
adoption by the Vance County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 90.017 DOGS UNDER DIRECT CONTROL.
   A dog not under direct control of its owner and determined to be at large by
an Animal Services Officer can be picked up by that office, and the owner may
be subject to citation and fee as set forth under §
90.012.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOG TAX
§ 90.050 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an animal license tax on the privilege of
keeping dogs within the county.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 90.051 APPLICABILITY.
   All persons, firms or corporations having under control, protection, use or
ownership any dog, male or female, within the county shall annually list the
same in accordance with procedures to be established by the County Tax
Collector.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-1-1977; Am. Ord. passed 12-3-1979)
§ 90.052 RATE.
   Each dog, male or female, required to be licensed under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be licensed at the rate of $2 per animal.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 90.053 PAYMENT.
   (A)   The payment of the license tax shall be due and payable on or before
January 31 of each year.
   (B)   In the event any dog shall come under the control, protection, use or
ownership after January 31, then payment is due within 60 days of the control,
protection, use or ownership.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-1-1977; Am. Ord. passed 12-3-1979)
§ 90.054 FAILURE TO LIST.
   If any person shall willfully fail to list, pay or otherwise intentionally
violate the provision of this subchapter, he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction punished as provided and described by G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-1-1977) Penalty, see §
90.999
KEEPING WILD, VICIOUS AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL WASTE MANAGEMENT. Animal waste shall be disposed of according to
state and federal standards, guidelines and requirements as they pertain to
best management practices.
   DOUBLE SAFETY DOORS. Doors so constructed that the exterior door must be
closed before the interior door can be opened.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who keeps, has charge of, shelters,
feeds, harbors or takes care of any wild, vicious or exotic animal in the
county.
   PERMITTEE. Any person, firm or corporation granted a permit to keep,
shelter, feed, harbor or take care of any wild, vicious or exotic animal in the
county.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE.  Any building, wire cage, pen or similar enclosure
designed and used for the purpose of restraining and confining any animal, the
keeping of which is regulated by this subchapter. All such enclosures shall be
constructed and maintained according to the standards and requirements
established in the appendix attached to Ord. 28, entitled “Standards for
Enclosures for Wild, Vicious and Exotic Animals.”
   SECONDARY ENCLOSURE. An enclosure which is not used for primary confinement,
exercise or training of wild, vicious or exotic animals. Each person, firm or
corporation keeping any wild, vicious or exotic animal shall construct a
SECONDARY ENCLOSURE which shall surround or encompass all primary enclosures
where such animals are kept. The SECONDARY ENCLOSURE shall be constructed and
maintained according to the standards specified in the appendix attached to
Ord. 28.
   WILD, VICIOUS OR EXOTIC ANIMAL. All nonindigenous carnivores, primates,
poisonous snakes or other venomous animals, giant constricting snakes,
crocodilians, elephants and rhinoceroses.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 90.066 PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ENCLOSURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep, shelter, feed, harbor or
take care of any wild, vicious or exotic animal in the county unless all the
animals are confined continuously within a secure and locked primary enclosure
which is situated within a secondary enclosure except while being transported.
   (B)   Each enclosure shall be constructed to standards specified for keeping
each type of animal as identified in Appendix A of Ord. 28.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   As a condition precedent to the keeping, sheltering or harboring of
any wild, vicious or exotic animal, the owner shall make advance written
application for and receive from the County Animal Services Officer (herein
referred to as ASO) a permit and authorization to keep any such animal.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner;
      (2)   Owner’s experience with animals, especially wild animals,
particularly the species for which the application is submitted;
      (3)   History of the background of the owner, keeper or husbandry expert,
including a record of all animal escapes and recapture of animals under his or
her control as well as corrective actions taken to prevent further escapes;
      (4)   Any relevant personal history of the owner, operator, manager and
employees;
      (5)   Species, size and other identifying characteristics of each wild,
vicious or exotic animal the applicant desires to keep;
      (6)   The birthplace, birth date and history of each animal, including
whether the animal has ever harmed any human being, and including all medical
history with an accounting for all immunizations;
      (7)   Description of the nature, size, type of construction and location
of any enclosure in which the applicant intends to keep a wild, vicious or
exotic animal;
      (8)   Description of the liability insurance carried by the owner to
compensate persons for potential personal injury and property damage. A copy of
the current policy shall be attached to the application;
      (9)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all persons residing
within 1 mile of the proposed location for the keeping of the animals;
      (10)   A schedule of personnel responsible for servicing and maintaining
the facility on an hourly and daily basis;
      (11)   A list of tranquilizing equipment, chemicals and instruments of
destruction required by §
90.077 of this subchapter;
      (12)   A list of all state and federal permits and licenses required for
keeping of the animals and a statement of whether the licenses and permits have
been obtained, and whether the applicant has ever had any permit or license
revoked or suspended, and if so, the reason for that; and
      (13)   Submission of best management plan for animal waste disposal
according to local, state and/or federal standards.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.068 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   As a condition precedent to the keeping, sheltering or harboring of wild,
vicious or exotic animals, the owner shall continuously maintain liability
insurance coverage in at least the amount of $1,000,000 per claim to compensate
persons for personal injury and property damage which may result from the
keeping of these animals.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.069 DUTIES OF ANIMAL SERVICES OFFICER.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written application for a permit to keep a wild,
vicious or exotic animal, the Animal Services Officer (ASO) shall inform the
applicant in writing if the enclosure standards for each type of animal are
different from the construction standards proposed and shall notify the County
Manager, who will report the application to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Upon the construction of the enclosure specified, the ASO shall
promptly inspect the primary enclosure and the secondary enclosure intended for
the keeping or harboring of any wild, vicious or exotic animals.
      (1)   If the ASO shall determine that the proposed enclosure is
reasonably and sufficiently secure to harbor and safely keep the specific wild,
vicious or exotic animal(s) to be kept, and it meets all specifications set
forth in this subchapter, and the applicant certifies that he or she has all
the necessary state and federal permits, and that the applicant is otherwise
qualified as required in this subchapter, a permit shall be issued, thus
authorizing the applicant to locate the wild, vicious or exotic animal(s) in
the enclosure. No wild, vicious or exotic animal shall be brought into or kept
in the county until after the permit is issued by the county and received by
the applicant.
      (2)   If the ASO shall determine that the proposed enclosure is not
reasonably or sufficiently secure to harbor or keep the wild, vicious or exotic
animal for which application is made, or that it fails to meet the
specifications set forth herein, he or she shall notify the applicant of any
defects or irregularities which make the enclosure insecure. The applicant may
cause the defects to be remedied and request another inspection by the ASO.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.070 INSPECTIONS.
   At any time after the receipt of an application referred to herein, the ASO
shall be authorized to inspect the premises at any reasonable time and shall
file a written report of his or her findings with the County Manager.
Inspections for compliance with this subchapter shall be carried out by the ASO
(s) and/or other appropriate and qualified individuals who are so designated or
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. In case of an emergency,
reported escape, or if the ASO has reasonable grounds to believe the owner has
committed a violation of this subchapter, the owner shall immediately make the
premises available for inspection.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.071 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS.
   If at any time during or after an inspection of the facilities by the ASO,
it is the determination of the officer that the “Standards for Primary and
Secondary Enclosures” as set forth in Appendix A to Ord. 28 are inadequate for
keeping any species or any individual animal of a species, the ASO shall not
issue a permit and shall recommend to the County Manager necessary changes to
the standards sufficient to protect the public.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.072 DEFICIENCIES.
   Any deficiencies in the primary enclosures recognized by the ASO after
issuance of a permit shall be communicated immediately to the owner in writing
and immediately corrected by the owner. These deficiencies shall be
communicated immediately to the Sheriff and County Manager.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.073 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any owner keeping or harboring a wild, vicious or exotic animal at the date
of the adoption of this subchapter shall comply with the application and permit
provisions herein within 30 days of the adoption of this subchapter, and shall
meet the primary enclosure standards within 30 days, and shall also meet the
secondary enclosure standards within 120 days of adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.074 REPORTING OF ESCAPES.
   At any time that a wild, vicious and exotic animal for which a permit has
been issued escapes its confinement, the following steps shall be taken by the
owner to ensure that the public is duly notified and that all possible measures
are taken for the protection of the public as follows.
   (A)   (1)   Immediately upon knowing that any wild, vicious or exotic animal
is outside the secondary enclosure and out of sight of the owner, the owner
shall contact the ASO immediately and provide a detailed report of how many
animals have escaped, which animals have escaped, particular dangers which
exist and related precautions the public should take to avoid harm, and any
other pertinent information.
      (2)   The owner shall cooperate fully with the ASO and other public
safety officials to ensure the timely and safe return of the animals to the
permitted facility.
   (B)   The ASO (with assistance of the Sheriff) will then notify the
neighbors who are listed on the original application, the Sheriff and any other
pertinent public safety personnel, public school officials, and any other
persons or organizations deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.075 REPORTING OF CHANGES.
   The owner shall report to the ASO within 5 days of any occurrence which
represents a significant change in the information submitted with the permit
application, such as but not limited to animal birth(s), deaths, change of
location or transfer of possession of the animals.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.076 TRANSFER OF POSSESSION OR OWNERSHIP.
   At any time that physical possession or ownership of the animals shall
transfer from the person, firm or corporation who obtained the original permit
(s), the permit(s) expire(s) with the date of transfer of possession or
ownership and a new permit must be applied for by the appropriate owner.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 90.077 TRANQUILIZING AND ANNIHILATING EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall have on hand at all times sufficient equipment and
chemicals to tranquilize any animal for which he or she has a permit to keep.
Each permittee shall have on hand at all times sufficient equipment to kill any
animal for which he or she has a permit to keep.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.078 TRANSPORT AND EXHIBITION.
   (A)   No owner shall exhibit any wild, vicious or exotic animal within the
county or transport any such animal from 1 point in the county to another point
within the county without having the animal in a secure enclosure approved by
the ASO.
   (B)   All transport and holding cages shall be deemed escape-proof by the
ASO in advance of transporting.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.079 RELEASE OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to release from captivity any wild,
vicious or exotic animal in the county.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.080 EXPERIENCED PERSON REQUIRED.
   Any owner as defined in this subchapter shall at all times have on-site with
the animals a person or persons fully experienced in the proper handling of the
animals. The person(s) shall be at least 18 years of age and be capable of
using equipment referenced in §
90.077 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 90.081 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit may be suspended by the ASO upon a finding of any 1 or more
of the following:
      (1)   That the permit was issued to a permittee not entitled thereto
under this subchapter;
      (2)   That the permittee’s enclosures do not comply with this subchapter,
or that the permittee has otherwise violated the provision of this subchapter;
      (3)   That 1 or more animals have been brought in the county or kept by
the permittee without first obtaining a permit;
      (4)   That the permit application contained false or misleading
information, or failed to disclose a material fact pertinent to the
application;
      (5)   That the permittee does not possess all licenses or permits
required by the State of North Carolina and the United States Government;
      (6)   That the permittee has failed to report an escape;
      (7)   That the permittee does not possess and have the ability to
promptly utilize equipment required by §
90.077 of this subchapter; and/or
      (8)   That the permittee has in any way violated or failed to comply with
any other requirements and provisions contained within or referenced with this
subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The permittee shall be notified in writing of any suspension,
and shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Board of County
Commissioners, provided notice of appeal is delivered to the County Manager
within 10 days of notification of the suspension.
      (2)   The Board shall schedule a hearing upon the matter and provide the
permittee no less than 48 hours’ notice of the hearing, at which the permittee
shall be afforded the opportunity to offer evidence as to why the permit should
not be revoked.
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Board may revoke the permit, or
reinstate it with the conditions as the Board shall determine to be reasonable
and necessary.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding any provisions contained within this subchapter,
the ASO shall not issue a permit to a person, firm or corporation who has
previously had a permit revoked, based upon continued violations of any
ordinance regulating the keeping of animals in the county.
      (2)   Denial of any application shall be immediately reported to the
County Manager.
      (3)   Any person denied a permit for this reason shall be entitled to
appeal to the Board of County Commissioners within the same time and under the
procedure for suspensions as set forth in the preceding paragraph.
      (4)   Upon hearing the appeal, the Board may deny the permit if it finds
that the applicant has failed in the past to comply with an ordinance
regulating the keeping of wild, vicious and exotic animals and that that
conduct was a continuing matter, and that the conduct placed the safety of 1 or
more citizens in jeopardy.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
§ 90.082 HUMANE TREATMENT.
   All animals shall be humanely treated. Animals and enclosures shall be
available for periodic inspection by the ASO at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.083 EXEMPTION FOR TRAVELING SHOWS.
   Traveling wild, vicious and or exotic animal shows which stay in the county
not longer than 14 consecutive days in a 12-month period, such as circuses,
zoos, rides, displays, exhibitions, performances and the like, are excluded
from the following provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Section
90.066;
   (B)   Section
90.067(B)(12);
   (C)   Section
90.069; and
   (D)   Section
90.071.
(Ord. passed 12-7-1998)
HUNTING
§ 90.100 TRAPPING OF FOXES.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to take or trap foxes (red or gray) in the county
between October 15 and February 28; provided, however, that only the 1-1/
2 double-wing fox trap may be used in the trapping of foxes at any time.
   (B)   The trapping of foxes at any other time shall be unlawful with
penalties as provided by the hunting and trapping regulations of the state.
(Ord. passed 10-15-1975) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate any provision, rule or regulation of §§
90.001 through
90.017, that individual may be subject to citations, fees and penalties as set
forth in §
90.012 and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction punished as
prescribed by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 16, passed 3-2-2015)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.065 through
90.082 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined or
imprisoned in the discretion of the court, as provided by law.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, this subchapter may also be enforced
by means of a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-7-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2020)
CHAPTER 91: ARCHIVE AND HISTORICAL COLLECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Authority
Board of Trustees
   
91.15   Creation
   
91.16   Membership
   
91.17   Vacancies
   
91.18   Officers; organization
   
91.19   Meetings
Powers and Duties
   
91.30   Public documents and the like
   
91.31   Private documents and the like
   
91.32   Nondocumentary properties
   
91.33   Requests for transfer
   
91.34   Abandoned cemeteries
   
91.35   Use of public facilities
   
91.36   Finance and financial responsibility
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted to provide for the collection,
preservation and availability of photographs; original and copied documents;
public and private papers, records and journals; lithographs, engravings,
books, pamphlets, articles; paintings, furnishings and artifacts of any nature
or description whatever derived from, concerning, pertaining to or relating to
the history of the geographical area currently constituting the county and its
immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.02 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to the authority granted
in G.S. § 153A-437.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 91.15 CREATION.
   A Board of Trustees of the Vance County Archives is hereby created. The
Board of Trustees shall consist of 20 members, appointed as follows.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be 11 ex officio voting members of the Board
consisting of: the Clerk of the Superior Court of Vance County; the Register of
Deeds of Vance County; the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Vance
County or his or her appointed representative; the Mayor of the City of
Henderson or his or her appointed representative; the Chairperson of the Vance
County Library Board; the 3 immediate past presidents of the Vance County
Historical Society, Inc.; and the President, Vice-President, Secretary and
Treasurer of the Vance County Historical Society, Inc.
      (2)   Each of the ex officio members shall serve a term of membership on
the Board equivalent to the tenure of his or her respective office.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be 9 elected members of the Board of Trustees
consisting of the 9 elected directors of the Vance County Historical Society,
Inc.
      (2)   Each of the trustees shall serve a term of membership on the Board
of Trustees equivalent to his or her term as a director of the Vance County
Historical Society, Inc.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.17 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled in the manner provided for filling the office or
directorships of the agency or corporation from which the Trustee’s respective
seat derives.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.18 OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt rules and regulations for the election of
officers and for the operation of the Board as it shall deem necessary for the
effective and orderly conduct of the Board and shall submit the same for
approval of the Board of County Commissioners on or before September 1, 1980.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.19 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees shall meet at least once during each calendar year at
a time and place established by the Board. Notice of the annual meeting shall
be given by the Board in accordance with the notice requirements of the Open
Meetings Law (G.S.§§ 143-318.9 et seq.). Other meetings shall be held at the
times and places and upon notice as may be provided by the rules and
regulations of the Trustees as adopted and approved pursuant to §
91.18 above.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
POWERS AND DUTIES
§ 91.30 PUBLIC DOCUMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Archive shall maintain copies of the public documents of the
county, its agencies and subdivisions which have an origination date greater
than 50 years preceding each current year of the Archive’s operation and which
are, in the sound discretion of the Trustees, judged to be of significance for
research regarding the history of the county.
   (B)   In addition the Archive shall maintain, preserve and make available
for public inspection such original public documents as may from time to time
be entrusted to the Archive by the Board of County Commissioners or by the
governing authority of any agency, or subdivision of municipal unit or agency
thereof.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.31 PRIVATE DOCUMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Archive shall solicit, obtain, purchase, receive and/or acquire
the privately-owned documents, journals, diaries, books, pamphlets, papers and
the like, or copies thereof as are in the sound discretion of the Trustees
adjudged to be of significance for research regarding the history of the area
constituting Vance County and immediate vicinity.
   (B)   The Archive shall maintain, preserve and restore the materials and
make the same available for public inspection pursuant to the rules and
procedures adopted by the Trustees for public inspection.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.32 NONDOCUMENTARY PROPERTIES.
   The Archive shall restore, maintain, preserve and enhance the nondocumentary
properties as may from time to time be entrusted to the Archive from any public
or private source consistent with the historical purpose of the Archive and
shall commission, solicit, obtain, acquire and receive the properties, which
shall include but not be limited to: photographs, lithographs, etchings,
engravings, paintings, busts, artifacts, furnishings and/or copies and
facsimiles thereof.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.33 REQUESTS FOR TRANSFER.
   For the implementation of the objects and purposes herein set forth, the
Trustees are hereby authorized to submit to the Board of County Commissioners
from time to time requests for the transfer of historical properties currently
maintained by other agencies to the Archive for maintenance and/or
reproduction.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.34 ABANDONED CEMETERIES.
   The Archive:
   (A)   Shall obtain and maintain information regarding abandoned cemeteries
in the county as provided in state law; and
   (B)   Shall submit an annual report to the Board of County Commissioners
regarding the maintenance of the cemeteries on or before May 1 of each year.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.35 USE OF PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The Archive shall be entitled to use and occupy such public facilities as
may be appropriated to that use by the Board of County Commissioners in the
annual budget.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 91.36 FINANCES AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Trustees shall solicit contributions, grants and donations from any
source and receive public or private funds, necessary for the execution of
objects and purposes set forth herein. These funds shall be maintained in an
account under the supervision of the County Auditor and subject to the
provisions for financial responsibility applicable to other agencies of the
county.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-5-1979)
CHAPTER 92: RECREATION
Section
Lake Kerr Facility
   
92.01   Applicability
   
92.02   Season
   
92.03   Operating hours
   
92.04   Boats
   
92.05   Prohibitions
   
92.06   Designated parking areas
   
92.07   Enforcement
   
92.08   Unauthorized use
 
   
92.99   Penalty
LAKE KERR FACILITY
§ 92.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to the area leased by the
City of Henderson and the County of Vance at Kerr Lake off of Satterwhite Point
Road and developed as a swimming facility (and also used for picnic area).
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 92.02 SEASON.
   (A)   The facilities shall only be open from Memorial Day through Labor Day
in each year.
   (B)   No one shall utilize the swimming area or go into the water at the
facilities except when a duly authorized lifeguard is on duty and indicates
that the swimming facilities are open for use by the general public.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 OPERATING HOURS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall have the right to designate
operating hours for the facilities, but the Park Supervisor and the lifeguards
under his or her supervision shall be responsible for determining when the
swimming facilities are open during those hours.
   (B)   The lifeguards shall have the right to keep all persons out of the
water at any time that they deem the same to be in the interest of safety or in
the best interest of the operation of the facility; they shall have the further
right to require all persons to leave the water for accounting for those
persons present at any time they deem the same to be expedient.
   (C)   They have the right to restrict certain areas at times for use by
classes of instruction.
   (D)   They shall have the right to require reasonable swimming tests for any
individual swimmer or group of swimmers before they are allowed to use the
facilities and shall have the further right to limit any individual swimmer to
certain areas of the swimming facilities in accordance with their sole judgment
of that swimmer’s abilities.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 92.04 BOATS.
   No boats shall be permitted within 100 feet of the facilities leased by the
City of Henderson and County of Vance unless specifically authorized by the
Park Supervisor or by the County Rescue Squad.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no running on the swimming dock, no pushing or shoving
in the swimming area, and all boisterous and disorderly conduct on the leased
premises shall be prohibited.
   (B)   No alcoholic beverages or controlled substances shall be consumed on
the leased premises (including picnic area and parking area), and the
lifeguards and Park Supervisor shall have the right to prohibit anyone from
being on the premises who in their sole judgment appears to be under the
influence of any alcoholic beverage or controlled substance.
   (C)   No weapons shall be permitted on the leased premises.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DESIGNATED PARKING AREAS.
   All motor vehicles shall be parked only in the designated parking areas
unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Park Supervisor.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Park Supervisor and all lifeguards shall be specifically empowered
to enforce all provisions of this subchapter and other ordinances and rules and
regulations relating to the Kerr Lake area (leased by the city and county) and
its use, and shall in furtherance of those powers have the additional power to
remove or cause to be removed and excluded from any of the premises leased by
the city and county any person violating any of the ordinances, provisions,
rules or regulations, for a period not to exceed 72 hours.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Director shall have the further authority to
exclude any such person for an additional period of 2 weeks, if in his or her
sole judgment he or she deems the same to be in the best interest of the
operation of the facilities for use by the public (provided, however, that any
such person so excluded can request a hearing before the Parks and Recreation
Director within 3 days of the additional exclusion, in which event the Director
shall hear the evidence presented and shall make a new determination either
affirming, reversing or modifying his or her prior decision).
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 92.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   Any unauthorized use of any portion of the leased premises (including not
only the swimming facilities, but also the waters surrounding the same, the
picnic area and the parking area) shall constitute a trespass and the same
shall be and constitute a misdemeanor (without otherwise limiting the
enforceability of any other portions of this subchapter or the rules and
regulations adopted relative to the use of the facilities).
(Ord. 22, passed 6-27-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Applicability
   
93.05   Effective date
Regulations
   
93.15   General regulations
   
93.16   Alarm responses
   
93.17   Exclusions
   
93.18   Prohibited acts
   
93.19   Miscellaneous
   
93.20   Enforcement
   
93.21   Fines for excess alarms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the Vance
County Alarm Systems Regulations or this chapter.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations governing
alarm systems requiring response thereto by or through the Henderson–Vance
County E-911 Communications Center.
   (B)   The terms of this chapter shall not prohibit alarm companies from
providing service by private source to other offices within the geographical
boundaries of the county.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM. The activation of an alarm system signal that produces either an
audible sound which can be heard from the interior or exterior of the building
causing the alarm system, or the emission of a signal to a direct monitoring
service, which in turn notifies the Communications Center that the ALARM has
been activated.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business by any individual, partnership, corporations or
other legal entity of servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing any alarm system, or causing to be sold, leased, maintained,
serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed any alarm system in
or on any building, structure or facility, and shall not include any other
activity of the business.
   ALARM INSTALLATION.  Any alarm device or combination of devices installed
for 1 or more buildings.
   ALARM RESPONSE. The dispatch or response of fire or law enforcement
personnel as the result of an alarm.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any electronic or mechanical device which emits any signal
(electronic, visible, audible, silent, recorded or otherwise) which is
designed, intended or used to detect fire or an unauthorized entry into a
building, structure or premises, to signal a fire or attempted robbery or hold-
up, or to alert others of a fire or the commission of an unlawful act in or
around a building, structure or premises.
   ALARM USER. Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity owning or leasing an alarm system, or on
whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of the premises
and/or persons.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. Any type of device, which automatically sends
signals over regular telephone lines as opposed to dedicated alarm lines (see
definition in this section).
   COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The county central dispatch known as the Henderson-
Vance County E-911 Communications Center.
   COUNTY. Vance County, North Carolina, a political subdivision of the State
of North Carolina.
   DEDICATED ALARM LINE. A special leased telephone line circuit maintained for
the sole purpose of transmitting alarm signals.
   DIGITAL ALARM. An alarm system which automatically sends signals over
regular telephone lines connecting to a digital receiving console, as opposed
to a telephone handset.
   DIRECT CONNECTING ALARM. An alarm utilizing dedicated alarm lines to connect
to a remote receiving console.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   An electrical signal communicated to the Communications Center
indicating that an unlawful entry or other crime is being committed or
attempted or indicating the detection of a fire, whether to signal a fire or to
alert others of a fire in or around a building, structure or premises when it
is subsequently determined, after response to the alarm, that no unlawful
entry, crime or fire was either committed or in existence, and that the alarm
was activated in error due to the subscriber’s negligence or equipment
malfunction.
      (2)   The alarm shall be considered a FALSE ALARM if it could have been
prevented by the ordinary care of a competent subscriber or alarm business
operator. An alarm transmitted during testing procedures approved in advance by
the Communications Center shall not be deemed a FALSE ALARM.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm or device that produces a signal not connecting in any
way to any alarm monitoring centers, such as store or home burglar alarms
actuating bell devices.
   OFFICER. Either a sworn law enforcement officer or a member of any county or
city fire department.
   TAPE DIALER ALARM. An alarm system which automatically sends a signal over
regular telephone lines and plays a prerecorded message.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.04 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all unincorporated portions of
the county and to those incorporated municipalities which have entered into an
agreement with the county for its Communications Center to dispatch personnel
to respond to alarms within that municipality, pursuant to G.S. § 153A-122.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after March 1, 2002.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
REGULATIONS
§ 93.15 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The alarm user shall be responsible for knowing the contents of this
chapter.
   (B)   Alarm systems may be connected directly to a private alarm control
center or may be a local alarm.
   (C)   Local alarms shall be of a type that sounds for no more than 15
minutes.
   (D)   Any alarm existing as of the effective date of this chapter shall also
be governed by the regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   Each local alarm user shall furnish to the Communications Center
the names and telephone numbers of at least 3 persons authorized and able to
deactivate the alarm system.
      (2)   Should this requirement represent an undue burden upon the alarm
user, an exception thereto may be requested from the County Emergency
Operations Director who shall have the authority to allow less than 3 persons
authorized and able to deactivate the alarm system, but any such exception
shall be written in duplicate originals, with 1 retained by the Director and 1
by the alarm user.
   (F)   After the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
connect a local alarm without notifying the Communications Center
administrative office of the name(s) and telephone number(s) of persons
(singular or plural) authorized and able to deactivate the alarm system. Any
changes in the name(s) or telephone number(s) of those persons (singular or
plural) authorized and able to deactivate the alarm system must be communicated
to the Communications Center administrative office immediately.
   (G)   Burglar alarm systems installed within those geographical areas
covered by this chapter shall be equipped with an automatic bell time cut-off
module to prevent continuous alarm sounding when the user is unavailable to
manually silence the alarm. System or test devices which give a delay of 10
seconds or longer prior to alarm system activation in order to warn the user of
an open alarm circuit are highly recommended for all burglar systems in order
to prevent false alarms.
   (H)   Alarm systems installed after the effective date of this chapter will
be required to have reset capabilities, and to reset within 15 minutes. An
alarm system cutoff shall be installed to override all malfunctioning alarms.
Users whose alarm systems were installed prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall have 1 year from the effective date of this chapter to convert
their systems to the extent necessary for compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 ALARM RESPONSES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department and Henderson Police Department will
provide a maximum of 2 free burglar alarm responses, and the County Fire
Departments and City of Henderson Fire Departments and County Fire and
Ambulance Service will also provide a maximum of 2 free fire alarm responses to
any alarm user within any calendar month. In addition, all County Volunteer
Fire Departments shall also provide only 2 free alarm responses within any
calendar month. Thereafter, a user fee, as approved by the Board of County
Commissioners, shall be charged for any alarm response in excess of the 2
burglar alarm responses and 2 fire alarm responses.
   (B)   (1)   The alarm user or that user’s representative shall reset an
alarm system when notified by a responder that the alarm has activated.
      (2)   When an alarm sounds continuously for a period of 60 minutes from
the time responders react to the alarm, due to the failure of the alarm user or
that user’s representative to reset the alarm, every subsequent 60-minute
period or portion thereof that the alarm continues to sound shall be deemed a
separate alarm.
      (3)   The alarm user shall pay, in addition to any other fees imposed
under this chapter, to the county a flat rate fee established by the Board of
County Commissioners.
      (4)   The user shall additionally pay for the benefit of the primary
responder fire department a monetary sum established by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.17 EXCLUSIONS.
   For the purpose of computing the number of alarm responses in §
93.16, an alarm shall not include an alarm that is:
   (A)   Determined to have been activated by adverse weather conditions as
reported by the County Emergency Operations Director or as reported by the
National Weather Service or the investigating responding agency;
   (B)   Activated by an outside animal;
   (C)   Activated by an electrical power outage to the electric meter on the
building housing the activated alarm system, provided that the alarm user shall
provide proof of the electrical outage within 5 business days of the alarm
response;
   (D)   (1)   An alarm where there is physical evidence of a fire,
unauthorized entry, robbery, or other crime having been committed at the
premises where the alarm was activated.
      (2)   Any determination by an alarm responder that alarm activation was
not 1 of the exclusions herein may be appealed to the County Manager within 72
hours. The decision of the County Manager shall be final.
   (E)   A local alarm activated during alarm system testing procedures shall
not be considered an alarm for the purpose of computing alarm responses, if the
alarm user first notifies the County E-911 Communications Center of the alarm
testing.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate an alarm for the
purpose of summoning either law enforcement department or fire department
assistance when no fire, burglary, robbery or other crime dangerous to life, is
being committed or attempted on the premises or otherwise to cause an alarm
response where there is no valid basis for causing the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail to reimburse the
county, in accordance with §
93.16(B) of this chapter, for alarm response(s) through the County E-911
Communications Center.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The alarm user, upon being notified that the alarm system has been
experiencing an excessive number of false alarms or has in some way become
defective, shall have the alarm system inspected and repaired by a qualified
individual or company so as to correct any malfunction and restore the system
to proper function, and shall thereafter notify the Henderson–Vance County E-
911 Communications Center when the necessary repairs have been completed.
   (B)   (1)   The alarm user or the user’s representative shall respond to an
alarm call when there is evidence of an illegal entry or some other alarm
indication and, when possible, assist law enforcement personnel in the
performance of their duties.
      (2)   This assistance is to be provided only upon request from responding
law enforcement personnel.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All violations of this chapter, including failure to pay the fees
imposed herein within 14 days following notice that the fees are due, shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in the nature of a debt. These civil
penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil action in the nature of a
debt, pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-123(c) or 160A-175(c).
   (B)   Effective on the date of this chapter, all alarm users shall begin
with 0 number of responses for purposes of §
93.16.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 93.21 FINES FOR EXCESS ALARMS.
   (A)   Those alarm users exceeding the maximum number of false alarms allowed
pursuant to the terms of these county alarm system regulations shall pay the
following sums for the benefit of the city and county public safety agencies:
      (1)   For alarm response numbers 3 through 6, the sum of $50 each; and
      (2)   For alarm response numbers 7 or more, the sum of $100 each.
   (B)   The appropriate county personnel are authorized and directed to
institute appropriate civil actions to recover alarm response fees due pursuant
to this section with all court costs and service fees to be taxed against the
debtor.
(Res. passed 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
On Public Property
   
94.01   Abandoned motor vehicle defined
   
94.02   Duty of owner to remove
   
94.03   Removal by county
   
94.04   Costs of removal; notice to owner
   
94.05   Sale of abandoned motor vehicles
   
94.06   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
94.07   Disposition of unsold vehicles
   
94.08   Disposition of abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
94.09   Immunity
   
94.10   Effective date
On Private Property
   
94.30   Abandoned or junk motor vehicle defined
   
94.31   Duty of owner to remove
   
94.32   Removal by county
   
94.33   Costs of removal; notice to owner
   
94.34   Disposition of motor vehicles
   
94.35   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
94.36   Exclusions
   
94.37   Immunity
   
94.38   Effective date
ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 94.01 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED.
   A motor vehicle shall be deemed to have been ABANDONED for the purposes of
this subchapter in the following circumstances:
   (A)   It has been left upon county-owned property or public grounds within
the county in violation of a law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
   (B)   The vehicle fails to display a current license plate;
   (C)   It is partially dismantled or wrecked;
   (D)   It is incapable of self-propulsion or being moved in the manner for
which it was originally intended;
   (E)   It is left on property owned or operated by the county for a period of
not less than 24 hours;
   (F)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for a period of not less than 2 hours; or
   (G)   It is left on any public grounds within the county for a period of not
less than 7 days.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.02 DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle is abandoned on a public street or highway, it
shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of the motor vehicle to cause
the removal thereof immediately and to pay all costs incident to the removal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a motor vehicle owned by
him or her to remain abandoned on a public street or highway after notice to
that person to have the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 REMOVAL BY COUNTY.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle is abandoned on a public street or highway,
or on property owned or operated by the county, or on private property, the
vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of a county law enforcement
officer or other duly constituted law enforcement officer to a storage garage
or area.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be removed from private property without the written
request or permission of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof unless the same
has been declared by county authorities to be a health, fire or safety hazard.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.04 COSTS OF REMOVAL; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When an abandoned motor vehicle is removed from private property at
the request of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof, the registered owner of
the vehicle shall be required to pay or otherwise indemnify the county for any
expenses incurred by reason of the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (B)   The owner of any vehicle removed from any public street or highway, or
any property owned or operated by the county, or any private property, shall
pay to the county all reasonable costs incident to the removal and storage of
the vehicle and to locating the owner thereof.
   (C)   Written notice of each removal of an abandoned vehicle shall be given
to the owner thereof as promptly as possible.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.05 SALE OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Should the owner of an abandoned motor vehicle fail or refuse to pay the
costs above mentioned, or should the identity or whereabouts of the owner be
unknown and unascertainable after a diligent search, and after written notice
to him or her at his or her last known address, if his or her identity is
known, and to the holder of any lien of record in the office of the North
Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles against the vehicle, the enforcement
officer of the Board of County Commissioners may, after holding the vehicle for
30 days, after having the value thereof determined by 3 disinterested
automobile dealers or garage people, and after giving 20-days’ notice to the
North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles, the notice to include all
information which can be reasonably ascertained to identify the vehicle,
dispose of the same by private or public sale, and shall forward the proceeds
of the sale to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.06 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall pay from the proceeds of the sale the costs
of removal, storage, investigation as to ownership and sale, and liens, in that
order. If after the sale the ownership of the vehicle at the time of its
disposal is established satisfactorily to the CountyTreasurer by the person
claiming ownership, he or she shall be paid so much of the proceeds of the sale
as remains after payment of the costs of removal, storage, investigation as to
ownership and sale, and any liens, as hereinabove required.
   (B)   However, if the owner of the vehicle at the time of its disposal
cannot be ascertained, any remaining proceeds shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the county.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.07 DISPOSITION OF UNSOLD VEHICLES.
   Whenever any abandoned motor vehicle which has been removed pursuant to this
subchapter shall remain unsold for a period of 60 days from and including the
day of its removal, the vehicle may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by
the county official charged with its safekeeping. Notice of the destruction or
disposition shall be given the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles, the
notice to include all information which can be reasonably ascertained to
identify the vehicle.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.08 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Defined. Whenever a motor vehicle is found to be an abandoned motor
vehicle as defined in §
94.01 and, in addition, is found to be inoperable, dismantled or damaged, 5
years old or older, worth less than $50, it shall be deemed to be an ABANDONED
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (B)   Removal.
      (1)   Whenever any junk motor vehicle is abandoned on the public streets
or public property, or is abandoned upon privately-owned property without the
permission of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof, the vehicle may be removed
by or under the direction of an enforcement officer to a storage garage or
area; provided, that no such vehicle shall be removed from privately-owned
premises without the written request or permission of the owner, lessee or
occupant thereof, unless the same has been declared to be a health or safety
hazard.
      (2)   When the vehicle is removed from privately-owned property, the
person at whose request the vehicle is removed may be required to pay or
otherwise indemnify the county for any expenses incurred by reason of its
removal and storage.
   (C)   Final disposition.  
      (1)   Any junk motor vehicle so removed shall be held for a period of at
least 15 days. The owner of the vehicle may claim his or her vehicle during the
15-day retention period by exhibiting proof of ownership to the enforcement
officer and after paying all reasonable costs incident to the removal and
storage of the vehicle and administrative expenses.
      (2)   If after the vehicle is held 15 days it remains unclaimed, the
vehicle may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by private or public sale.
Any proceeds derived from the disposition of junk motor vehicles shall be
retained by the county for deposit in the General Fund, provided that from
these proceeds the county may at its option reimburse property owners for all
reasonable costs incurred by the property owner in getting junked or abandoned
vehicles removed from private property. Within 15 days after final disposition,
written notice thereof shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles
indicating that the vehicle has been declared to be an abandoned junk motor
vehicle, the manner of final disposition, and as full and accurate a
description of the vehicle as can reasonably be determined.
   (D)   Consent of owner.  The enforcement officer may, with the consent of
the owner of a vehicle, remove and dispose of any motor vehicle as a junk motor
vehicle regardless of the value, condition or age of the vehicle and without
waiting the aforesaid 15-day period.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.09 IMMUNITY.
   Neither county nor any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any abandoned, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as
contemplated by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
§ 94.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on September 25, 1972, to concur with the
adoption of these regulations by the Henderson City Council.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-4-1972)
ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 94.30 ABANDONED OR JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED.
   A motor vehicle shall be deemed to have been ABANDONED or JUNKED for the
purposes of this subchapter in the following circumstances:
   (A)   The vehicle fails to display a current license plate;
   (B)   It is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
   (C)   It is incapable of self-propulsion or being moved in the manner for
which it was originally intended.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 94.31 DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   If a motor vehicle is abandoned on private property, it shall be the duty
and responsibility of the property owner to cause the removal thereof
immediately and to pay all costs incident to the removal. It shall be unlawful
for any person to allow a junked vehicle to remain on private property owned by
him or her after due notice to have the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.32 REMOVAL BY COUNTY.
   (A)   Whenever any junked motor vehicle is left on private property, the
vehicle may be removed by the county after notice has been duly given to the
property owner.
   (B)   The vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of a county law
enforcement officer or other duly authorized county personnel.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be removed from private property unless the same has
been declared by county authorities to be a health, fire or safety hazard, a
threat to protection of property values, or causing detriment to community
appearance.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 94.33 COSTS OF REMOVAL; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Upon notice duly provided by the county, the property owner shall
remove and properly dispose of the motor vehicle within 30 days. A fee shall be
assessed on the owner of the private property per vehicle for failure to remove
the vehicle after due notice by the county, in the following amounts:
      (1)   If not removed within 30 days of notice, $25 fine per vehicle;
      (2)   If not removed within 60 days of notice, $50 fine per vehicle; and
      (3)   If not removed with 90 days of notice, $100 fine per vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   When a junked motor vehicle is removed from private property by
the county, the property owner shall be required to pay or otherwise indemnify
the county for any and all expenses incurred in removal and disposal of the
vehicle in addition to the fees imposed in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   If the costs are not paid within 30 days of removal of the motor
vehicle by the county, the county shall place a lien on the real property for
the costs.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 94.34 DISPOSITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any property owner who is required to remove a motor vehicle from his
or her property must properly dispose of the vehicle by taking it to a disposal
facility with appropriate business licenses, such as a scrap metal dealer or a
commercial junk yard operation or other facility approved by the county in
advance.
   (B)   Moving the motor vehicle to the disposal facility shall be
accomplished in a safe manner and subject to all applicable laws.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.35 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   If the county removes the motor vehicle, all proceeds from the sale of the
vehicle (if any) shall be deposited in the General Fund of the county and
utilized as general revenue.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 94.36 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a commercial junk
yard operation in possession of appropriate and valid business licenses.
   (B)   (1)   One junk motor vehicle that is declared as a detriment to
community appearance or as a threat to property values may be allowed to remain
on the property if it is completely concealed from public roads or streets and
abutting premises by an acceptable cover or buffer.
      (2)   If more than 1 junk vehicle exists on the same property, it must be
stored in a closed garage or building structure erected pursuant to the lawful
issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in accordance with
applicable building regulations.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 94.37 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the county nor any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any junk motor vehicle for removing and/or disposing of the vehicle as
contemplated by this chapter.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
§ 94.38 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on July 1, 2002.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 95: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Applicability
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   General prohibition on open burning and outdoor burning
   
95.05   Open burning of refuse
   
95.06   Open burning of leaves, grass clippings, logs, brush, and stumps
   
95.07   Prescribed burns
   
95.08   Agricultural burning
   
95.09   Portable outdoor fireplaces
   
95.10   Liability
   
95.11   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the county, by regulation, the air pollution and
fire hazards associated with open and outdoor burnings.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within the
County, except as otherwise specifically provided. This chapter does not apply
to the following:
   (A)   Outdoor grilling or cooking food using charcoal, clean wood, propane
or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   Burning for the purpose of generating heat in a stove, furnace,
fireplace or other heating device within a building used for human or animal
habitation.
   (C)   The use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a
device intended for heating construction or maintenance activities.
   (D)   Burning pursuant to or in accordance with a validly issued burning
permit from a federal or state department or entity.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONFIRE. A large open-air fire used as part of a public celebration or
event.
   CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood that: (a) has not been painted, varnished or coated
with similar materials; (b) has not been pressure treated with preservatives;
and (c) does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The sworn official designated by the Board of Commissioners to
regulate this chapter.
   NUISANCE. Materials that, when burned, create a foul or offensive odor, or
which cause smoke emissions that are reasonably offensive to occupants of
surrounding property.
   OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired broiler or
patio wood burning unit.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. A wood-fired boiler, stove or furnace that is not
located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
   PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A chimney, patio warmer, or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
   PRESCRIBED BURNING. Burning in compliance with a prescription to meet
planned fire or land management objectives of a continuous cover of fuels.
   PRESCRIPTION. A written plan establishing the criteria necessary for
starting, controlling, and extinguishing a burn.
   REFUSE. Any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, grass
clippings, and other vegetative matter.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.04 GENERAL PROHIBITION ON OPEN BURNING AND OUTDOOR BURNING.
   Open burning and outdoor burning are prohibited in the county unless
specifically permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE.
   Open burning of refuse is prohibited in the county.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 OPEN BURNING OF LEAVES, GRASS CLIPPINGS, LOGS, BRUSH, AND STUMPS.
   Open burning of grass clippings, leaves, logs, brush, and stumps is allowed
in the county in accordance with all of the following provisions so long as
same originates from the lot in which they are burned:
   (A)   Bonfires require a written permit to be issued by the Fire Marshal in
accordance with the NC Fire Code and must be obtained prior to open burning
under this section.
   (B)   Campfires shall not be conducted within 25 feet of a structure or
combustible material. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 25
feet of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
   (C)   The location for allowed open burning shall not be less than 50 feet
from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from
spreading to within 50 feet of any structure. Exceptions to this include the
following:
      (1)   Fires in approved containers shall not be less than 15 feet from a
structure.
      (2)   Fires with a pile size of 3 feet or less in diameter and 2 feet or
less in height shall not be less than 25 feet from a structure.
   (D)   Safety. All allowed open burnings shall be conducted in a safe,
nuisance free manner, when wind and weather conditions minimize adverse effects
and do not create a health hazard or visibility hazard on roadways, railroads,
or airfields. Open burning shall be conducted in accordance with all local and
state fire protection regulations.
   (E)   Supervision. All allowed open burnings shall be constantly attended
and supervised by at least one (1) competent person of at least 18 years of age
until the fire is extinguished. The competent person shall have readily
available for use such fire extinguishing materials or equipment as may be
necessary for the total control and extinguishing of the fire.
   (F)   Burn ban. Except for barbecue, gas, and charcoal grills, no open
burning shall be undertaken when the state has issued a burning ban for this
county.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 PRESCRIBED BURNS.
   Prescribed burns are generally regulated by state law or regulations, and
any prescribed burn shall be conducted in conformance with all applicable state
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.08 AGRICULTURAL BURNING.
   Open burning of weeds, brush, and crop stubble on agricultural land is
allowed if conducted in accordance with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.09 PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.
   Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated within 15 feet of a
structure or combustible material unless used at one and two family dwellings.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.10 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be responsible for
all fire suppression costs and any other liability from damage caused by the
fire.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Marshal or his or her designee, or the sheriff or his or her
designee, are authorized to enforce this chapter, inspect any property for the
purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
order fires in violation of this chapter to be extinguished.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be fined by
any penalty below or combination of penalties according to the severity of the
offense.
   (A)   The first violation shall result in a warning citation for a probation
period of 1 year. The violator will be educated on the ordinance and given
proper education materials for reference.
   (B)   The second violation within a consecutive 12-month period shall result
in a fine of $50.
   (C)   The third violation, or any violation subsequent to the third
violation, within a consecutive 12-month period, shall result in a mandatory
fine of $500.
(Ord. 41, passed 1-7-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
111.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
112.   LICENSING OF CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Cable TV Franchise
   
110.01   Franchise required
   
110.02   Application; approval
   
110.03   Hearings
Ambulance Service Franchise
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Franchise required
   
110.17   Required personnel
   
110.18   Exemptions
   
110.19   Application for ambulance franchise
   
110.20   Granting of franchise
   
110.21   Term of franchise
   
110.22   Standards for ambulance franchise
   
110.23   Standards for personnel
   
110.24   Standards for vehicles and equipment
   
110.25   Standards for communications
   
110.26   Insurance
   
110.27   Records
   
110.28   Rates and charges
   
110.29   Enforcement
   
110.30   Territorial jurisdiction
   
110.31   Inspection of records
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title III
   Adult Businesses, see
Chapter 111
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 151
   Licensing of Contractors and Others, see
Chapter 112
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
CABLE TV FRANCHISE
§ 110.01 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
    It is unlawful to operate without franchise any Commercial Community
Television Antenna System (such systems being commonly referred to as CATV
operations) within the county and outside of the incorporated areas within the
county.
(Ord. 18, passed 5-4-1981) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   No franchise shall be granted until application has been made to the Board
of County Commissioners and the application is accepted and approved by the
Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 18, passed 5-4-1981)
§ 110.03 HEARINGS.
   Prior to any franchise being granted by the Board of County Commissioners, 2
public hearings on same shall be held as provided by G.S. § 153A-46.
(Ord. 18, passed 5-4-1981)
AMBULANCE SERVICE FRANCHISE
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT (ALS). Ambulance service that includes the necessary
equipment and staff to render advanced life support services (e.g. advanced
airway procedures, defibrillation and medication administration).
   AMBULANCE. Any privately- or publicly-owned motor vehicle intended to be
used for, and is maintained or operated for, transportation on the streets or
highways of persons who are sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated
or helpless.
   AMBULANCE PROVIDER. An individual, firm, corporation or association who
engages or professes to engage in the business or service of transporting
patients in an ambulance.
   APPROVED. Approved by the North Carolina State Medical Care Commission
pursuant to the latter's rules and regulations promulgated under G.S. §§ 131E-
155 et seq.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT. An ambulance service that includes the necessary
equipment and staff to render basic services (e.g. control bleeding, delivery
of babies and splinting fractures).
   COMMISSION. The State Medical Care Commission.
   CONVALESCENT. The transportation of sick or infirmed patients having a
known, non-emergency medical condition, on a scheduled basis between facilities
or between a residence and a facility.
   COUNTY. The County of Vance.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DIRECTOR. An individual employed by Vance County
to provide oversight and supervision for Emergency Medical Services within
Vance County.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (AEMT, PARAMEDIC). An individual who has
completed a training program in emergency medical care at least equal to the
National Standard Training; Program of Emergency Medical Technicians as defined
by the United States Department of Transportation and has been credentialed as
an Emergency Medical Technician. Advanced Emergency Medical Technician or
Paramedic by the State of North Carolina Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   FRANCHISE. A permit issued by the county to any person for the operation of
an ambulance service.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person having been issued a franchise by the county for the
operation of a commercial ambulance service.
   LICENSE. Any driver's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued
under or granted by the laws of the State of North Carolina.
   MEDICAL RESPONDER. An individual who has completed a training program in
emergency medical care and first aid approved by the N.C. Department of Health
and Human Services and has been certified as a medical responder by the N.C.
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   NON-EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICES. The operation of an ambulance for any
purpose other than transporting emergency patients.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of an ambulance which is in
motion or has the engine running.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or group of individuals acting together for a common purpose or organizations
of any kind, including any governmental agency other than the United States,
who owns and operates an ambulance service.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless such as that the need for some medical assistance
might be anticipated while being transported to or from a medical facility.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.16 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Emergency Medical Services - Vance County Emergency Medical Services
Department is the primary provider of emergency care and will be primarily
responsible for all emergency transportation services provided in Vance County
unless an entity is granted a franchise by Vance County as set forth herein and
assistance is requested.
   (B)   No person, either as an owner, agent, employee or otherwise, shall
furnish, operate, conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be engaged in or
profess to be engaged in the business of non-emergency, convalescent or
emergency transportation of patients within the county unless the person holds
a valid permit for each ambulance used in the business issued by the Medical
Care Commission of the State Department of Health and Human Services, and has
been granted a franchise by Vance County as set forth herein.
   (C)   No person shall drive an ambulance, attend a patient in one or permit
one to be operated when transporting a patient within the County of Vance
unless he or she holds a current valid credential as a medical responder, EMT,
AEMT or Paramedic issued by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 REQUIRED PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Every ambulance when transporting a patient shall be occupied at a
minimum by the following:
      (1)   At least 1 emergency medical technician who shall be responsible
for the medical aspects of the mission prior to arrival at the medical
facility, assuming no other individual of higher certification or license is
available; and
      (2)   One medical responder who is responsible for the operation of the
vehicle and rendering assistance to the emergency medical technician.
      (3)   An ambulance owned and operated by a licensed health care facility
that is used solely to transport sick or infirm patients with known non-
emergency medical conditions between facilities or between a residence and a
facility for scheduled medical appointments is exempt from the requirements of
this division (A).
   (B)   The Medical Care Commission of NCDHHS may adopt rules setting forth
exemptions to the requirements stated in division (A) above applicable to
situations where exemptions are considered by the Commission to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Privately-owned vehicles not regularly used in the business of
transporting patients;
   (B)   A vehicle rendering service as an ambulance in case of a major
catastrophe or emergency, when the permitted ambulances based in the locality
of the catastrophe or emergency are insufficient to render the services
required;
   (C)   Any ambulance based outside Vance County, except that an ambulance
which receives a patient within Vance County for transportation to a location
within Vance County shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (D)   Ambulances owned and operated by an agency of the United States
government;
   (E)   Vehicles owned and operated by rescue squads chartered by the state as
nonprofit corporations or associations which are not regularly used to
transport sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless persons
except as a part of rescue operations; and
   (F)   Any ambulance service sponsored and/or under operation of the county.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.19 APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE FRANCHISE.
   Application for a franchise to operate ambulances in the county shall be
made upon the forms as may be prepared or prescribed by the county and shall
contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant and of the owner of the
ambulance(s) along with the location and description where the ambulance(s)
will be housed;
   (B)   Copy of North Carolina articles of incorporation/organization, the
trade or other fictitious names, if any, under which the applicant does
business, along with a copy of the filed assumed name certificate;
   (C)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients, a roster of employees, position of each
employee, and licenses and certifications of each employee;
   (D)   A copy of State EMS Provider License, Permit and most recent State EMS
annual inspection for each ambulance owned and operated by the applicant;
   (E)   The location and description of the place from which it is intended to
operate;
   (F)   Financial statement of the applicant as the same pertains to the
operations in the county;
   (G)   A description of the applicant's capability to provide 24-hour
coverage 7 days per week;
   (H)   A copy of IRS tax exempt status letter (i.e. 501(c)(3)), if any;
   (I)   Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN); and
   (J)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide ambulance service
in the county in accordance with the requirements of the state and the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.20 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county may at any time designate specific service areas as
franchise districts. Said districts may be established at the discretion of the
county using criteria such as geographic size, road access, the location of
existing medical transportation services, population and response time.
   (B)   A franchise may be granted if the county finds that:
      (1)   The applicant meets the State of North Carolina standards and
standards outlined in this subchapter.
      (2)   The proposed service will not adversely affect the quality or level
of service already provided to the citizens of Vance County.
      (3)   A need exists for the proposed service in order to improve the
level of ambulance services available to the residents of Vance County and that
this is a reasonable and cost effective manner of meeting the need.
   (C)   In granting a franchise, the county will comply with the requirements
of G.S. § 153A-46, which requires that a franchise be granted by ordinance, and
that such ordinance shall not be adopted until it has been passed al two
regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   If the application for a franchise is approved by the county, the
county and the applicant will enter into a franchise agreement that may provide
for further requirements of the applicant/franchisee, for a term not to exceed
3 years from the date of issuance, and may be renewed for additional 3-year
terms.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.21 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county may issue a franchise under this subchapter to an owner of
an ambulance service, to be valid for a term of 3 years unless otherwise
determined by the county, provided that either party, as its option, may
terminate the franchise upon 60-days’ prior written notice to the other party.
   (B)   For any violation under this subchapter, the franchisee may be issued
a civil penalty by the county for the violation of up to $100 for each separate
violation of the franchise as provided herein, or the county may suspend or
revoke the franchise. If at any hearing the county shall find that the
franchisee has corrected any deficiencies to the satisfaction of the county and
has brought this operation into compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter, the franchise shall not be further suspended or revoked for the
cited violations, but a civil penalty as provided herein may be imposed.
   (C)   Upon suspension, revocation or termination of a franchise granted
under this subchapter, the franchised ambulance service shall immediately cease
operations in Vance County.
   (D)   Upon suspension, revocation or termination of a driver's license or
emergency medical technician certificate, the persons shall cease to drive an
ambulance or provide medical care in conjunction with an ambulance service or
attend an ambulance, and no person shall employ or permit the individual to
drive an ambulance or provide medical care in conjunction with an ambulance
service.
   (E)   All existing franchises issued as of the date of this subchapter shall
terminate on June 30, 2021 unless terminated earlier.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Each franchised ambulance service shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this subchapter, the franchise granted under this subchapter,
and all applicable state and local laws relating to health, sanitation, safety,
equipment and ambulance design and all other laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Ownership.
      (1)   Prior approval by the county shall be required where ownership or
control of more than 10% of the right of control of franchisee is acquired by a
person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom own or control 10%
or more of the right of control, singularly or collectively, at the date of
franchise.
      (2)   By its acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
agrees that any such acquisition occurring without prior approval of the county
shall constitute a violation of the franchise by franchisee and shall be cause
for immediate termination at the option of the county.
      (3)   Any change of ownership of a franchised ambulance service without
the approval of the county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a
new application, a new franchise and conformance with all the requirements of
this subchapter as upon original franchising.
   (C)   The applicant must maintain and operate out of a Vance County office
and facility that houses each ambulance used within the boundaries of Vance
County, North Carolina. Specific location and description thereof must be
provided by the applicant.
   (D)   Each franchised ambulance service, its equipment and the Vance County
premises designated in the application for all records relating to its
maintenance and operation as such shall be open to inspection by the state, the
county or their designated representatives.
   (E)   No official entry made upon a franchise may be defaced, removed or
obliterated.
   (F)   Any change, failure to provide or loss of the level of service
required to be offered by the franchisee without the approval of the county
shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new application and a new
franchise and conformance with all the requirements of this subchapter as upon
original franchising.
   (G)   A franchise shall be required to participate in and provide backup
emergency services as needed under the Vance County EMS system plan and shall
obtain and maintain the required NC State permits and certifications for such
ALS services.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 STANDARDS FOR PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Standards for EMS personnel are to be complied with as dictated under
North Carolina Laws, rules and regulations governing EMS personnel, including,
but not limited to, G.S. § 131E-158 and Ch. 143, Art. 56. All such laws, rules
and regulations, as currently in place and as amended or replaced, are herein
incorporated by reference and mandated.
   (B)   All personnel providing ambulance services shall obtain and maintain
the approval of the Emergency Medical Services Director and Medical Director
prior to providing medical care and each submission for approval shall be
accompanied by the submission of a driver's license, criminal record history
and a letter of review/approval by the Vance County Medical Director.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.24 STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Vehicle and equipment standards as developed by the North Carolina Medical
Care Commission pursuant to G.S. § 131E-157 and Ch. 143, Art. 56, shall be
applied and adhered to and the same are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.25 STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Each ambulance service shall maintain a central point of contact that
is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by way of two way radio or telephone
line. Each central point must have at least one open telephone line. Telephone
numbers must be registered with each law enforcement agency and communications
center in the county.
   (B)   Each ambulance vehicle shall be equipped with an operational two-way
radio capable of establishing good quality voice communications from within the
geographical confines of Vance County to the hospital(s) emergency department
in Vance County.
   (C)   Each ambulance vehicle shall be equipped with two-way radio
communications capabilities for communications with all hospital emergency
departments to which transportation of patients is made on a regular routine
basis anywhere in the state of North Carolina.
   (D)   Each ambulance shall be equipped with a two-wav radio which must be
operative at all times and which has the capacity of communicating with Vance
County Emergency Communications. Vance County EMS and other franchised
providers in Vance County.
   (E)   Each ambulance shall provide the county a copy of the Federal
Communications Commission license authorizing the use of the communication
equipment owned and operated by that service and its operable frequency.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No ambulance franchise shall be issued under this subchapter, nor
shall the franchise be valid after issuance, nor shall any ambulance be
operated in the county unless there is at all times in force and effect
insurance coverage, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in
the state for each and every ambulance owned and/or operated by or for the
ambulance service providing for the payment of damages:
      (1)   In the sum of $1,000,000 for injury to or death of individuals in
accidents resulting from any cause for which the owner of the vehicle would be
liable on account of liability imposed on him or her by law, regardless of
whether the ambulance was being driven by the owner or his or her agent; and
      (2)   In the sum of $1,000,000 for the loss of or damage to the property
of another, including personal property, under like circumstances, in sums as
may be required by the state or as approved by the county.
   (B)   Any lapse of insurance coverage constitutes immediate grounds for
suspension or revocation of the franchise by the county.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 RECORDS.
   Each franchisee shall maintain the following records:
   (A)   Record of dispatch. Time call was received, time ambulance dispatched,
time arrived on scene, time arrived at destination, time in service, and time
returned to base;
   (B)   Trip record. All information required in division (A) above, in
addition to patient's address and telephone number, condition of patient,
documentation of all medical care, procedures or assistance provided for each
call, time of day all medical care, procedures or assistance provided, total
trip miles, schedule of charges, and name of attendant and driver;
   (C)   Daily report log. A log maintained for the purpose of identifying all
people transported in any 1 day;
   (D)   Daily vehicle inventory and safety log. A daily checklist review of
the inventory and results of a daily safety inspection for each vehicle, signed
by the individual verifying vehicle operations and equipment; and
   (E)   All the above reports shall be maintained for a minimum of a 3-year
period unless a longer retention period is otherwise required by other
retention rules.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the acceptance of the franchise as provided for
herein, the franchisee shall submit to the county a proposed schedule of rates
and charges for the operation of an ambulance service. The county shall within
30 days thereafter either accept or reject the proposed rates. If the county
rejects the rates, the franchisee and the county shall negotiate for an
acceptable rate, and if the agreement is not reached within 30 days after the
rejection by the county, the county may terminate the franchise; and further,
any rate increase sought by the franchisee will be filed with the county 60
days before it is to be effective; and if the county takes no action or
approves the increase, it will go into effect on the date specified in the
filing. If the county takes action by resolution to disapprove the increase,
the proposed rate increase shall not be effective.
   (B)   No ambulance service shall attempt to collect rates on emergency
calls, if applicable, until the patient has reached the point of destination,
has received medical attention, and is in a condition deemed by the physician
fit to consult with the ambulance service.
   (C)   On non-emergency calls, or calls where a person requires
transportation to a non-emergency facility, attempts to collect payments can be
made before the ambulance begins its trip.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Manager, or his or her designee, shall be the enforcing
agency for the regulations contained in this subchapter.
   (B)   The County Medical Director shall have the authority to issue an
immediate suspension for up to 30 days due to matters related to public health,
safety and welfare in additional to the ability to hold an EMS Peer Review of
the ambulance service as defined in G.S. § 131E-155(a)(6b).
   (C)   The Manager will:
      (1)   Receive all franchise proposals from potential providers;
      (2)   Study each proposal for conformance to this subchapter;
      (3)   Recommend to the Vance County Board of Commissioners the award of
the franchises to the applicants submitting the best proposals;
      (4)   Cause the County Emergency Medical Services Department to inspect
the premises, vehicles, equipment and personnel records of franchisees to
ensure compliance with this subchapter; and
      (5)   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners the temporary or permanent
suspension of a franchise in the event of noncompliance with the franchise
terms of this subchapter. Recommend appropriate legal action for the imposition
of misdemeanor or civil penalties as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Each franchise will:
      (1)   Submit monthly reports from ambulance services provided from the
previous month on or before the fifteenth of the following month;
      (2)   Participate in Vance County EMS system wide peer review;
      (3)   Ensure by cooperative agreement with other ambulance services the
continued service in a district where an ambulance service franchise has been
suspended;
      (4)   Within 10 days of receipt, report any complaints from the public,
other enforcing agencies and ambulance services regarding services provided
within Vance County; and
      (5)   Maintain all records required by this subchapter and other
applicable state and local regulations.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.30 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all areas within the
geographic confines of the county.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.31 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The county may inspect a franchisee's records, premises and equipment at any
time in order to ensure compliance with this subchapter and any franchise
granted under this subchapter.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §§
110.01 through
110.03 shall subject the violator to a $50 fine per day.
(Ord. 18, passed 5-4-1981)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to obtain or receive
ambulance service without intending at the time of obtaining or receiving the
service to pay, if financially able, the necessary charges. A determination
that the recipient of the services has failed to pay for the services rendered
for 90 days after the request for payment shall constitute prima facie evidence
of intent to violate §§
110.15 et seq.
      (2)   Violations of §§
110.15 et seq., or the terms of any franchise granted under §§
110.15 et seq., shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each
violation also shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of
$100 for each separate breach of the franchise or violation of §§
110.15 et seq. This civil penalty must be paid within 10 days after the hearing
on the citation has been held as provided herein. If not so paid, the penalty
may be recovered by the county as provided by G.S. § 153A-123(c). If the civil
penalty is not paid within the 10 days as provided for in §§
110.15 et seq., the county may suspend or revoke the franchise.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-14-2005)
CHAPTER 111: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
General
   
111.01   Purpose
License
   
111.15   Application
   
111.16   Qualifications
   
111.17   Issuance and renewal; payment of fees
   
111.18   Employment of persons convicted of certain crimes
   
111.19   Enforcement and revocation of license
   
111.20   Authority to employ, train personnel
   
111.21   Employee names to be filed with Sheriff
   
111.22   Hours of operation
Restrictions
   
111.35   Patronage of massage parlors by minors
   
111.36   Massages by unlicensed persons
   
111.37   Certain procedures proscribed
Topless Bars and Clubs
   
111.50   License required; application
   
111.51   License fees
   
111.52   Hours of operation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 151
   Zoning Regulations, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To protect the general health, safety, welfare and morals of the
citizens of the county, the following licensing provisions hereinafter
specified are ordained for the privilege of carrying on the business, trade or
profession of masseur or masseuse and for the operation of carrying on of the
businesses, trades or professions commonly known as massage parlors, health
salons, physical cultural studios, clubs or establishments, or similar
establishments where physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy or other physicals
of the human body are carried out or practiced.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a regularly
established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing home, medical clinic,
nor to the office or clinic operated by duly qualified and licensed medical
practitioners; provided, however, that the office or clinic is regularly used
by the medical practitioner or chiropractor as his or her principal location
and practice of medicine or chiropractic.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975)
LICENSE
§ 111.15 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any persons desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of
masseur or masseuse or the operation of carrying on of any business, trade,
profession, occupation or calling mentioned in §
110.01 shall, before engaging in the business, trade, profession, occupation or
calling, file an application for a license addressed to the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing and shall hold forth the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant. If the applicant be a corporation,
the address or addresses of the corporation; and
      (2)   Qualifications must be plainly stated and must be submitted
together with required exhibits annexed to the application.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 QUALIFICATIONS.
   An applicant hereunder, prior to making application for a license, must have
the following qualifications.
   (A)   The applicant may be male or female, shall be required to provide
proof of good moral character, and in case the applicant is a corporation, must
be credited in or incorporated by the laws of this state.
   (B)   The applicant must furnish a health certificate from a medical doctor
which shall accompany the application as an exhibit. Should the applicant be a
corporation, it shall furnish health certificates to cover its agents or
employees who will be actually engaged and working under the license; provided
further, that employees who begin work following the original issuance of
license under this chapter shall likewise obtain health certificates, which
certificates shall be furnished to the Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975)
§ 111.17 ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL; PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   After submission of a complete application on forms provided by the
Office of the County Tax Collector, approval of the application by the Board of
County Commissioners, and upon payment to the County Tax Collector of a license
fee of $1,000 for each premises and $100 for each masseur or masseuse in excess
of 3 to be employed or trained by the licensee on the premises, the County Tax
Collector shall issue a license to the applicant.
   (B)   Each license shall be valid for the calendar year in which issued,
expiring on December 31 of the year of issue.
   (C)   Each license must be renewed from calendar year to calendar year by
submission of a renewal application to the Office of the County Tax Collector
at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the license. After approval of
the application by the Board of County Commissioners, and upon payment to the
County Tax Collector of a renewal expiration fee in the same amount as
prescribed for initial applications, the County Tax Collector shall issue to
the applicant a renewal certificate which shall validate the applicant’s
license for an additional calendar year.
   (D)   (1)   Approval of an application for issue or renewal of a license by
the Board of County Commissioners shall be granted if the Board is satisfied as
to the qualifications of the applicant, the correctness of the information
contained in his or her application, the good moral character of the applicant
or of the officers of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation. If
the license is denied because the Board is not so satisfied, the applicant
shall be notified of the denial and the reason therefor and, upon his or her
request at the reasonable convenience of the Board, the applicant shall be
granted an opportunity to appear before the Board and be heard in defense of
his or her application.
      (2)   After the hearing, the Board may grant or deny the license.
   (E)   If the business to be licensed pursuant to this chapter is carried out
at 2 or more separate places, a separate county license for each place or
location of the business shall be required.
   (F)   The county license issued under this chapter shall be and constitute a
personal privilege to conduct the profession or business named in the license
and shall not be transferable to any other person, and shall be construed to
limit the person named in the license to conducting the profession or business
and exercising the privilege named in the license to the location specified in
the license; provided, if the holder of a license under this chapter moves the
business for which a license has been obtained to another location, a new
license may be issued to the licensee at a new location, for the balance of the
license year, upon surrender of the original license for cancellation.
   (G)   Revocation of a license shall not be a cause for a refund of any fee
for issuance or renewal of a license.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful willfully to make a false statement in an
application for a license or request of a renewal of a license under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Every license and renewal of license issued shall show on the face
thereof the name of the licensee, the nature of the business, the location
thereof, the time it was issued and payment of the privilege tax.
   (J)   Licenses shall be kept posted where business is carried on. No person
shall engage in any business or trade for which the issuance of a license
pursuant to this chapter is required without having the license posted
conspicuously at the place where the business or trade is carried on.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS CONVICTED OF CERTAIN CRIMES.
   (A)   No establishment licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall
employ or continue the employment of any person convicted within 3 years of a
violation of this chapter; of any state or local statute prohibiting
prostitution, lewdness or indecent exposure; or of any crime involving moral
turpitude on the part of that person.
   (B)   Any person refused employment or discharged under the provisions of
this section shall be given notice of the reason for the refusal and afforded
an opportunity to be heard by the Board of County Commissioners in protest of
the accuracy of a report of conviction.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff of the county to check the names
and other identifying data of employees submitted by establishments regulated
by this chapter against available records of convictions in courts of this and
the several states and the United States, and to inform the establishment of
the existence of records of convictions of any of its current or prospective
employees. It shall be the duty of any owner, officer or employee to provide
any reasonable identifying data, including fingerprints, to assist the Sheriff
in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 ENFORCEMENT AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff of the county to inspect
periodically the premises licensed under this chapter, to determine any
violations of its provisions, and to otherwise enforce this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Upon acquiring substantial and reasonable evidence that an
establishment requiring licensing under this chapter, or an owner, officer or
employee of the establishment has violated a provision of this chapter, that a
crime involving violence or moral turpitude has been committed by owners,
officers, employees, customers, members or guests on the premises of the
establishment, or that acts defined as nuisances under state or local statute
have occurred on or about the premises of the establishment, and upon acquiring
information of a conviction of any officer, owner, employee, customer, member
or guest of the establishment for the aforementioned violations, crimes and
acts of nuisance, the Sheriff shall notify the Board of County Commissioners of
the evidence or conviction.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall then determine if there is
sufficient danger to the morals, public health, safety or general welfare of
the citizens of the county to warrant revocation of the license of the
establishment concerned.
      (3)   Upon determination that there is probable cause for revocation and
after notification to the licensee of the determination and the reasons
therefor, the Board of Commissioners shall schedule a hearing at which the
licensee or his or her representatives shall be afforded an opportunity to show
good cause why his or her license should not be revoked.
      (4)   Upon the licensee’s failure to show good cause, the Board of County
Commissioners shall revoke the license.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975)
§ 111.20 AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY, TRAIN PERSONNEL.
   Any applicant granted a license shall have the authority to train masseurs
and masseuses under his or her supervision in his or her studio or
establishment, provided that the licensee shall furnish to the Sheriff’s
Department of the county, there to be kept by that Department, a health
certificate of the employee from a medical doctor.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975)
§ 111.21 EMPLOYEE NAMES TO BE FILED WITH SHERIFF.
   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license hereunder to file with
the Sheriff of the county the names of all employees, their home addresses,
home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of
employees with the names of new employees must be filed with the Sheriff of the
county within 7 days from the date of any change.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975)
§ 111.22 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No masseur or masseuse or any person or any person or party engaging in any
of the businesses licensed by this chapter shall engage in that business,
trade, profession, occupation or calling except within and between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., nor shall any operator or massage parlor,
establishment or business above enumerated operate the same except within and
between the aforementioned hours. Violations of this section shall be
considered under this code as an offense, and persons found guilty of this
violation shall be punishable within the general limits of punishments as set
forth herein.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.35 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE PARLORS BY MINORS.
   (A)   Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
patronize any massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder unless
that person carries with him or her at the time of the patronage a written
order directing the treatment to be given, signed by a regularly licensed
physician.
   (B)   Duty of operator. It shall be the duty of the operator of a massage
parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder to determine the age of the
person patronizing the establishment. A violation of this section shall be
grounds for revocation of the license of the establishment.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 MASSAGES BY UNLICENSED PERSONS.
   Massages may be given by persons not holding a license as a masseur or
masseuse, provided the massages are given under the direct supervision of a
person holding a license as a masseur or masseuse, and further provided that a
person holding a license as a masseur or masseuse shall be in the same room
where the massage is being administered during the entire time of the giving of
the massage.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 CERTAIN PROCEDURES PROSCRIBED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in the business, trade or
profession of masseur or masseuse, or any officer or employee of that person,
or any customers or member of an establishment requiring licensing under the
provisions of this chapter, to engage in the following practices on or about
the premises of such an establishment:
   (A)   To offer or provide a massage to any person without having a currently
valid license to do so, except when under the supervision as an employee or
trainee of a person with a currently valid license;
   (B)   To touch, manipulate, uncover or otherwise have physical contact with
the genital organs of any person, whether directly or indirectly or whether the
organs are covered or not;
   (C)   To go or lie about the establishment without the genital organs being
covered at all times;
   (D)   To provide or accomplish massages or any treatment offered by the
establishment in private areas, which for the purposes of this provision are
defined as areas:
      (1)   Designed to accommodate only a single customer or member and a
single masseur or masseuse; and
      (2)   When the activities of the persons cannot be seen by a supervisor
without opening a door or window or using a peep-hole or some similar device
denying normal vision.
   (E)   To operate or maintain an establishment requiring a license under the
provisions of this chapter without posting in readable print in permanent
places inside the establishment notice of the practices which are declared
unlawful under this section and §
111.18.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975) Penalty, see §
111.99
TOPLESS BARS AND CLUBS
§ 111.50 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person who desires to operate a topless bar/topless club must
first obtain a license.
   (B)   Each application for a license shall comply with §§
111.15 and
111.16 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-8-1995) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee for topless bar/topless club permit applicants is $1,000 for
each premises and $250 for each person working on the premises in topless
attire.
(Ord. passed 8-8-1995)
§ 111.52 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation for a topless bar/topless club are from 4:00 p.m. to
12:00 a.m. midnight, Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. passed 8-8-1995) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal. If any person shall violate any provision, rule or
regulation of this chapter, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction punished as described by G.S. § 14-4. Each day that any person shall
continue to do any act in violation of any such provision, rule or regulation
shall be and constitute a distinct and separate offense.
   (B)   Civil. If any person or corporation shall engage in the business,
trade or profession of masseur or masseuse or provide the service of such
without obtaining the license herein required or without the direct supervision
of a person so licensed shall also be subject to a civil penalty of $1,500,
which shall be assessed by the Board of County Commissioners upon proof of this
activity and may be uncovered, if not paid within 30 days after notice of
assessment, by a civil action in a nature of debt as prescribed in G.S. § 153A-
123.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-3-1975)
CHAPTER 112: LICENSING OF CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS
Section
Insulation Contractors
   
112.01   Authority
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Applications
   
112.04   Procedure for issuance
   
112.05   Termination and renewal of licenses
   
112.06   Suspension; revocation; appeal
   
112.07   Change of location
   
112.08   Permit; fee for insulation and energy utilization permit; exemptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
INSULATION CONTRACTORS
§ 112.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws
of 1977 (now repealed), and G.S. § 153A-134.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm or corporation may for a
consideration install, alter or restore, within any unincorporated part of
Vance County and within any city which adopts this chapter pursuant to the
authority granted in G.S. § 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building
Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization standards, who is not
either: licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Chapter 87;
working under the supervision of a registered architect or professional
engineer; an owner working upon his or her own building; or licensed under this
chapter.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATIONS.
   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit an
application for the license to the County Electrical Inspector conforming to
the following requirements.
   (A)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the County Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   Place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner, officer
or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type regulated by this chapter or other activities involving
construction, alteration or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended or revoked a license of the
type described in division (B)(6) of this section to applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant.
   (C)   License fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee
in the amount of $10 for the license, such amount to be for the calendar year
and prorated by quarters to the end of the year.
   (D)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of the license.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
§ 112.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review by County Electrical Inspector. Each application received by
the County Electrical Inspector shall be reviewed by the County Electrical
Inspector.
   (B)   Standards. The County Electrical Inspector shall, after review, issue
the license unless he or she shall find that the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last 3 years of a felony or an act
involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has had a license suspended or revoked by any local, state or federal
government or agency, and the government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored the license; or
      (3)   He or she knowingly made a false statement in the application.
   (C)   Appeal from denial.
      (1)   Any applicant whose license is denied may appeal the denial to the
Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   After reasonable notice to the applicant, the Board shall afford
the applicant an opportunity to show why its license should not be denied.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
§ 112.05 TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the
calendar year for which issued. Renewal of licenses shall be pursuant to the
same procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
§ 112.06 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   The County Electrical Inspector may suspend or revoke any license
issued hereunder at any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant has:
       (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
      (2)   Violated the State Building Code requirements as to insulation or
energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any other
jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit with
respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Board of County Commissioners. After reasonable
notice to the licensee, the Board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to
show why its license should not be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
§ 112.07 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided 10 days’
notice thereof is given to the County Electrical Inspector and operation at the
new location does not violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance or
regulation.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
§ 112.08 PERMIT; FEE FOR INSULATION AND ENERGY UTILIZATION PERMIT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm or corporation may for a
consideration install, alter or restore, within any unincorporated part of the
county and within any city which adopts this chapter pursuant to the authority
granted in G.S. § 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or energy
utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building Code
requirements for insulation and energy utilization standards, without first
securing a permit for the work to be done.
   (B)   The permit shall be either:
      (1)   A general building permit, secured from the County Inspection
Department and evidencing full compliance with all applicable requirements of
the State Building Code and other state and local laws; or
      (2)   An insulation and energy utilization permit, secured from the
County Electrical Inspector and evidencing full compliance with the insulation
and energy utilization standards in the State Building Code. For each such
insulation and energy utilization permit issued, there shall be a fee of $15.
   (C)   The following are exempted from the requirement of obtaining a permit:
      (1)   An owner working upon his or her own building; and
      (2)   Any person working under the supervision of a registered architect
or professional engineer.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties and equitable
relief provided for by Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws of 1977 (now
repealed), and G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-5-1997)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Signs Posted; Concealed Handguns
   
130.01   Posting of signs required
   
130.02   Location of signs
   
130.03   Exceptions
Disturbing the Peace
   
130.15   Purpose
   
130.16   Applicability
   
130.17   Unreasonably loud, disturbing acts; unnecessary noise
 
   
130.99   Penalty
SIGNS POSTED; CONCEALED HANDGUNS
§ 130.01 POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   The County Manager is hereby ordered to post appropriate signage on each
park, building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as
lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by Vance County, as well as
the appurtenant premises to the buildings indicating that concealed handguns
are prohibited therein.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 130.02 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by
which the general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park.
   (B)   The County Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building, appurtenant premises or park.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to those individuals who are excepted from
this subchapter, or to those exempted by G.S. § 14-269(b). It shall not be a
violation of this subchapter for an individual to whom a valid permit to carry
a handgun concealed has been issued to remove the handgun from his or her
person in order to place it in a locked enclosure in his or her vehicle parked
on a county-owned parking facility appurtenant to a posted county-owned, leased
or operated building.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-4-1995)
DISTURBING THE PEACE
§ 130.15 PURPOSE.
   To protect the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens and
residents of the county, the following subchapter pertaining to unreasonably
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise is hereby established.
(Ord. 19, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 130.16 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noise in the county, but not within a city within the county, is prohibited.
   (B)   Noise of a character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to
the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Ord. 19, passed 10-4-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING ACTS; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle except as a danger signal, so as
to create any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; or the sounding of this device
for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (B)   Radios, phonographs and the like. The playing of any radio,
phonograph, sound system or any musical instrument in a manner or with such
volume, particularly in a dwelling, vehicle, or in personal possession thereof,
as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
(Am. Ord. passed 4-3-1995)
   (C)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (D)   Use of vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded, or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise; and
   (E)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, as
a warning of danger.
(Ord. 19, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate any provision of §§
130.15 through
130.17, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
punished with a fine of $50 and court costs.
(Ord. 19, passed 10-4-1982; Am. Ord. passed 4-3-1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   WATERSHED PROTECTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
157.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
158.   ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   150.01   Reserved
   150.02   Reserved
   150.03   Reserved
   150.04   Reserved
   150.05   Reserved
   150.06   Reserved
   150.07   Reserved
Planning Board
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Membership and vacancies
   
150.22   Organization; rules; meetings; records
   
150.23   General powers and duties
   
150.24   Basic studies
   
150.25   Land use plan
   
150.26   Zoning ordinance
   
150.27   Subdivision regulations
   
150.28   Ordinances, regulations and standards for development
   
150.29   Public facilities
   
150.30   Miscellaneous powers and duties
   
150.31   Annual report
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 151
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Chapter 153
   Manufactured Home Parks, see
Chapter 152
   Planning and Development, see
Chapter 157
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Chapter 155
   Watershed Protection, see
Chapter 154
   Zoning Regulations, see
Chapter 156
§§ 150.01 - 150.07 Reserved.
PLANNING BOARD
§ 150.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a County Planning Board in
accordance with G.S. § 153A, Article 18, “Planning and Regulation of
Development.”
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.21 MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of 7 members. All members shall be
citizens and residents of the county and shall be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners (1 member from each of the 7 voting districts shall be
appointed).
   (B)   Members shall be appointed to 3-year terms.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful
attendance at the meetings of the Planning Board and conscientious performance
of duties required of the members of the Planning Board shall be considered a
prerequisite for continued membership on the Planning Board.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.22 ORGANIZATION; RULES; MEETINGS; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall meet and elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson within 30 days after appointment to the Planning Board. The term of
the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be 1 year, with eligibility of
reelection. The Planning Board shall keep a record of its members’ attendance
and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record
shall be a public record.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall meet when necessary and in accordance with
the provisions of G.S. Chapter 143, Article 33C, “Public Meetings Laws.” There
shall be a quorum of 4 members for the purpose of taking any official action.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.23 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general, to:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas; to acquire and maintain in current form such basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in those conditions;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the area
studied;
   (C)   Prepare, adopt and from time to time amend and revise plans for
achieving those objectives, including a comprehensive and coordinated land use
plan for the physical development of the area;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Advise the Board of County Commissioners concerning the use and
amendment of various means for carrying out plans, as directed by the Board of
Commissioners;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
   (G)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
   (H)   Keep the Board of Commissioners informed and advised as to the above-
described duties; and
   (I)   Perform any other related duty that the Board of Commissioners may
direct.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.24 BASIC STUDIES.
   (A)   As background for its comprehensive land use plan and any ordinances
it may prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of
manmade or natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends and
present conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic
base of the county, land use, and such other information as is important or
likely to be important in determining the amount, direction and kind of
development to be expected in the county and its environs.
   (B)   In addition, the Planning Board may make, cause to be made or obtain
special studies on the location, condition and adequacy of specific facilities,
which may include but are not limited to studies of housing, commercial and
industrial facilities, public and private utilities; and traffic,
transportation and parking facilities.
   (C)   All county officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Board such available records or information as it may require in its work. The
Board or its agents may, in the performance of its official duties and with the
permission of the property owner, enter upon lands and make examinations or
surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.25 LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   The comprehensive land use plan, with the accompanying maps, plats,
charts and descriptive matter, shall be the Planning Board’s recommendations to
the Board of County Commissioners for the development of the county’s
jurisdictional area.
   (B)   (1)   The plan and any ordinances or other measures to effectuate the
plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the county and its
environs.
      (2)   In accordance with present and future needs, the plan shall promote
the health, safety and the general welfare of county citizens.
   (C)   The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for
amendment to the land use plan based upon its studies. In addition, it shall
review and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners concerning all
proposed amendments to the county land use plan.
   (D)   The Planning Board shall circulate or cause to have circulated all
proposed amendments to the county land use plan to appropriate government,
utility and public service entities for review and comment. These comments
shall be considered in the formulation of recommendations to the Board of
County Commissioners.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.26 ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare, certify and submit to the Board of
County Commissioners, for its consideration and possible adoption, a zoning
ordinance regulating the height, area, bulk, location and use of buildings,
structures and land, in accordance with G.S. § 153A, Article 18.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals
for amendment to the zoning ordinance based upon its studies and comprehensive
plan.
      (2)   In addition, it shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of Commissioners concerning all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning Board shall circulate or cause to have circulated
all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance to appropriate government,
utility and public service entities for review and comment.
      (2)   These comments shall be considered in the formulation of
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.27 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Board of County
Commissioners, for its consideration and possible adoption, regulations for
land subdivision, in accordance with G.S. § 153A, Article 18.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review, from time to time, the county’s
regulations for land subdivision in the area and submit to the Board of
Commissioners its recommendations, if any, for the revision of the regulations.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of Commissioners concerning all proposed subdivisions, the accompanying plats
of subdivisions and the recombinations of any previous land subdivisions.
   (D)   (1)   The Planning Board shall circulate or cause to have circulated
all proposed subdivision plans to appropriate government, utility and public
service entities for review and comment.
      (2)   The comments shall be considered in the formulation of
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.28 ORDINANCES, REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Board of County
Commissioners, for its consideration and possible adoption, ordinances,
regulations or standards for any or all aspects of land development necessary
to implement the county land use plan, in accordance with applicable local,
state and federal laws, regulations and rules.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review, from time to time, the county’s
ordinances, regulations and standards for land development in the county and
submit to the Board of Commissioners its recommendations, if any, for the
revision of the regulations.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of Commissioners concerning all proposed developments to ensure compliance with
any ordinances, regulations or standards adopted pursuant to division (A) of
this section.
   (D)   The Planning Board shall circulate or cause to have circulated all
proposed developments plans to appropriate government, utility and public
service entities for review and comment. The comments shall be considered in
the formulation of recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.29 PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of County Commissioners upon the extent, location and design of all public
structures and facilities, on the acquisition and disposal of public
properties, on the establishment of building lines, mapped street lines, and
proposals to change existing street lines.
   (B)   However, in the absence of a recommendation from the Planning Board,
the Board of Commissioners may, if it deems it necessary and wise, after the
expiration of 30 days from the date on which the question has been submitted in
writing, with the complete and appropriate attachments, to the Planning Board
for review and recommendation, take final action.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.30 MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may conduct public hearings as may be required or
desired to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and
maintenance of the county land use plan.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in and
an understanding of its recommendations, and to that end it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 150.31 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Planning Board shall submit a written summary of its activities to the
Board of County Commissioners once a year.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-3-1997)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Minimum Standards for Continued Use of Existing Buildings
   
151.01   Finding; purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Fitness for human habitation or use
   
151.04   Structural conditions
   
151.05   Basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment
   
151.06   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.07   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.08   Responsibilities of owner and occupants
   
151.09   Building Inspector; powers and duties
   
151.10   Inspections; duties of owner and occupants
   
151.11   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.12   Complaints and orders; methods of service
   
151.13   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
151.14   Cost; lien on premises
   
151.15   Alternative remedies
   
151.16   Conflicts with other provisions
   
151.17   Violation
   
151.18   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTINUED USE OF EXISTING BUILDINGS
§ 151.01 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-121, it is hereby declared that there exist in
the county buildings (excluding farm buildings) which are unfit for human
habitation, use or occupancy due to deterioration, dilapidation; defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering the
buildings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety
and morals, and otherwise inimical to the safety and welfare of the residents
of the county.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the county, as authorized by Article 6, G.S. § 153A-121(a), it is the purpose
of this subchapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human use as expressly authorized
by G.S. § 153A-123(e).
(Ord. 33 § 1, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRI-BUSINESS. A business offering agriculture services, products, supplies
or equipment for retail or private sales to farms and to the general public,
excluding farm produce and products through roadside stands and/or farmer’s
market facilities.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   BUILDINGS FOR HUMAN USE.
      (1)   All buildings including building(s) used for dwellings or dwelling
units and governed by the North Carolina State Building Code(s) (excludes farm
buildings or buildings exempt from the North Carolina State Code(s)).
      (2)   These buildings shall include appurtenance buildings and premises.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building which is located partly or wholly
underground and has an inadequate access to light and air from windows.
   DETERIORATED.  A dwelling, a dwelling unit or building is unfit for human
habitation or use and can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all
of the minimum standards established by this subchapter at a cost not in excess
of 50% of its value, as determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling, a dwelling unit or building is unfit for human
habitation or use and cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with
all of the minimum standards established by this subchapter, except at a cost
in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building or parts of building(s), structures or parts thereof,
which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or
habitation by human occupants, and includes any outbuilding or appurtenances
belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith or temporary housing, as
hereinafter defined.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit, with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, vermin or
other pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as the
food; by poisoning, spray, fumigating or trapping; or by other recognized and
legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
   FARMS. Ten or more acres which are actively involved with production and/or
supplies of farm products and services, and which generate income for the
farmer.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, consumption or disposal of food or food products.
   GENDER.
      (1)   Words having a masculine GENDER shall include the feminine or
neuter GENDERS.
      (2)   Words having a feminine GENDER shall include the masculine or
neuter GENDERS.
      (3)   Words having the neuter GENDER shall include masculine or feminine
GENDERS.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling or other building for
human use, of any insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or to the
general public.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the county or any authorized agent of
the Inspector.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than 2 dwelling units.
   MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY. Any building(s) or complex with more than 1 occupancy
classification.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over 1 year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or eating
in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or part thereof,
in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units, rooming units or other building(s) subject to
the North Carolina Building Code(s).
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly, severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or
other building(s) subject to the North Carolina Building Code(s), with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof;
      (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit or other building(s) subject to the North Carolina Building Code
(s); or
      (3)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit or other building(s) subject to the North Carolina Building Code
(s), as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor, executrix,
administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the actual
OWNER. Any person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply
with the pro-visions of this subchapter, and of rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity, building, material or condition which exists
in such a state or place on or around any premises and is a detriment or a
threat to property, the safety, welfare or well-being of occupants, neighbors
and/or the general public.
   SEPTIC SYSTEMS and SEWAGE DISPOSAL. A public or private system which takes
affluent waste and returns it to the earth in such a manner as to neutralize
any toxins, harmful bacteria or other contaminates.
   TEMPORARY ELECTRICAL. Nonpermanent or restricted power connection(s) to
building service(s) or parts thereof. Temporary power is granted to facilitate
partial or restricted use of building premises wiring to occupy building(s)or
parts of a building(s) for a period not to exceed 120 days.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Shall include tents, travel trailers, campers, motor
homes and any other legal type of shelter with or without toilet, bathing and
cooking facilities.
   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY. The restricted or conditional occupancy of and
temporary housing unit or any building(s) subject to the North Carolina
Building Code(s) having noncompliant conditions or other restrictions and not
extending more than 120 days.
   TEMPORARY SERVICE POLES or BOARDS.  TEMPORARY SERVICE POLES are used for
construction purpose only and not for use as permanent power, and must not be
hard-wired to any building or other service system(s).
(Ord. 33 § 2, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.03 FITNESS FOR HUMAN HABITATION OR USE.
   (A)   Minimum standards of fitness (future minimum housing). Buildings
(excluding farm buildings) for human use or human habitation shall comply with
all of the minimum standards for safety and fitness for human use, and all the
requirements of §§
151.04 through
151.07 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Illegal occupancy. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to
another for occupancy for use as a human habitation any dwelling, dwelling unit
or other building for human use and not comply with all of the minimum
standards for safety and fitness for human use and all the requirements of §§
151.04 through
151.07 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 33 § 3, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 STRUCTURAL CONDITIONS.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural conditions for a building for human habitation or use (and future
minimum housing):
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle; shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged; and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents and vermin;
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be leaning, deteriorated or damaged;
   (D)   Stairways, stairs, steps, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse and must be structurally sound. Handrails and guardrails must be
maintained and be structurally sound;
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided. When the building is occupied, no required egress exit shall be
barred, shackled or locked in such a manner that requires the use of keys,
tools or other devices that impede immediate emergency egress;
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will by use of reasonable methods
promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a manner so
as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between various
spaces;
   (G)   Roofs, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weathertight and watertight;
   (H)   Chimneys, fireplaces and flues shall not be defective, deteriorated or
in danger of falling, or in a condition or location as to constitute a fire
hazard; and
   (I)   For dwellings or dwelling units, there shall be no use of the ground
for floors, or wood floors on the ground.
(Ord. 33 § 4, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   All buildings for human use (exempt farm buildings) that are
occupied for more than 3 consecutive hours must have a minimum of 1 water
closet and 1 lavatory.
      (2)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the State
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (3)   (a)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
building for human habitation or use and shall be accessible to the occupants
of same.
         (b)   The water closet and/or shower or tub located in a room that
affords privacy to the occupants.
      (4)   All wastewater connections to public or private sewage disposal
systems must be maintained in such a manner as to have no leakage, exposure or
contamination to the ground surface or public or private potable water systems.
   (B)   Heating system. Buildings which require heating shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat with a minimum of 65ºF, measured 3
feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
   (C)   Electrical systems.
      (1)   All other buildings having no natural ventilation or lighting and
that are for human occupation for periods of more than 3 hours or building(s)
occupied during the hours of darkness must have electric lighting capable of
furnishing a minimum of 1 cp illumination 12 inches above the floor.
      (2)   All electrical service systems must be installed in accordance with
the National Electric Code and maintained in proper and safe working condition.
      (3)   All stairways and halls in areas not having natural illumination or
used in hours of darkness must be furnished with sufficient electrical
lighting.
(Ord. 33 § 5, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with weather-tight siding or other protective covering to prevent the
entrance or penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof and
shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stairs,
stairways, porches and appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable
of supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon, and
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom and toilet room floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so that it will be reasonably impervious to water
and will permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this subchapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every building for human use shall be provided with adequate
means of egress as is required by the North Carolina State Building Code.
(Ord. 33 § 8, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Rodent and vermin control. Every building for human habitation or use,
including basements or cellars, shall be equipped with screens or other
approved device or barrier which will effectively prevent the entrance of
insects, rodents and vermin.
   (B)   Infestation.
      (1)   Every owner, owner-occupant or occupant shall be responsible for
the extermination of insects, rodent or vermin therein or on the premises.
      (2)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain
a building for human use in a rodent-, insect- and/or vermin-proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner; when a building is
occupied by multiple tenant spaces, extermination shall be the responsibility
of the owner.
   (C)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every building for human habitation or
use shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of
rubbish as is required by Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, and the owner,
operator or agent in control of the building unit shall be responsible for the
removal of rubbish.
   (D)   Garbage storage and disposal. When garbage is generated, every
building for human habitation or use shall have an approved garbage disposal
system or container as is required by Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 33 § 9, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a building for human habitation or use
shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a building for human habitation or use
shall keep in a clean and sanitary condition that part of a building and
premises thereof which he or she occupies, uses and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a building for human habitation
or use shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and
sanitary manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases,
the owner shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage
storage facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a building for human
habitation or use shall keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean
and proper use and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure.  No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of a building for human habitation or use.
Statutory reference:
   Responsibilities of landlords and tenants under rental agreement for
dwellings or dwelling units, see G.S. Chapter 42, Article 5
(Ord. 33 § 11, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.09 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To investigate the condition(s) of the building(s) and/or premises
in question, and to inspect dwellings and dwelling units under the jurisdiction
of the county in order to determine which building(s) for human habitation and/
or use are in violation of this subchapter, and for the purpose of carrying out
the objectives of this subchapter with respect to the repair, closing or
demolition of each such building;
      (2)   To take action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
buildings and/or abatement of conditions in violation of this subchapter;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
subchapter and an inventory of those building(s) which are in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with §
151.10 and state law, and shall be made in a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees as
he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
subchapter, and to delegate any of his or her functions and powers to the
officers, agents and employees; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
Board of County Commissioners and as is directed by the County Manager.
(Ord. 33 § 12, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.10 INSPECTIONS; DUTIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey, at all reasonable times, all buildings
and premises for human habitation or human use.
   (B)   Every occupant or tenant of a building for human habitation or human
use shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent at all reasonable hours
access for the purpose of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or with any lawful
order issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   When permission to inspect a dwelling or its premises is denied, the
Building Inspector must obtain a warrant to inspect. The N.C. Court of Appeals,
in In Re Dwelling, 24 N.C. App. 17 (1974), has held that the consent of the
tenant-occupant who was in actual possession and control of the premises was
sufficient to authorize an inspection without a warrant, notwithstanding the
fact that the owner has objected to the warrant-less search. When faced with a
situation where permission to inspect is denied, Building Inspectors are
advised to seek the advice of the County Attorney.
(Ord. 33 § 13, passed 2-4-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of warrants for the conduct of inspections authorized by law, see
G.S. § 15-27.2
§ 151.11 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. When a petition is filed
with the Inspector by a public authority or by at least 5 residents of the
county, charging that any building for human habitation or use, or whenever it
appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any building for human
habitation or use is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall, if his or her
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, issue and cause to
be served upon the owner of and parties of interest in the building a complaint
stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before
the Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than 10 nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall
have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least 1 of the persons signing
a petition relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend
the hearing and give evidence relevant in courts of law or equity. The North
Carolina Rules of Evidence shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After the notice and hearing, the Inspector
shall state in writing his or her determination whether the building is unfit
for human habitation or use and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or is
dilapidated.
      (1)   Deteriorated. If the Inspector determines that the building is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter,
improve or otherwise abate the building, dwellings or dwelling units to comply
with the minimum standard of fitness established by this subchapter within a
specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and
require the owner to vacate and close the building until the repairs,
alterations, and improvements or corrections have been made.
      (2)   Dilapidated. If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is
dilapidated, he or she shall state in writing his or her finding of fact to
support the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner either to repair,
alter, improve or otherwise abate the conditions as to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this subchapter, or else to vacate and
remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time not to exceed 90
days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of a deteriorated building shall
fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair, alter or improve, or
to vacate and close the same within the time specified therein; or if the owner
of a dilapidated building shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector
to repair, alter or improve, or to vacate, close and remove or demolish the
same within the time specified therein, the Inspector shall submit to the Board
of County Commissioners at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the
County Attorney to petition the Superior Court for an order directing the owner
to comply with the order of the Inspector as authorized by G.S. § 153A-123(e).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure or refusal of an owner of a
deteriorated or dilapidated building to comply with an order of the Inspector
with the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or
has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1) of this section, the
Inspector shall submit to the County Commissioners an ordinance ordering the
Inspector to cause the building to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated,
closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the
Inspector, and pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on the
building as provided by G.S. §§ 153A-123(e) and 151.13.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.  
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within 10 days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the Board of County
Commissioners or its designee, a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record on which the decision appealed from was made.
         (a)   When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to
allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed.
         (b)   When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the
person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending
the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies
to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall not be
suspended except for due cause shown upon not less than a 1 day’s written
notice to the Inspector by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition
made pursuant to G.S. § 153A-121 and division (E) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney.
         (b)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter; and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of 4 members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Inspector.
         (c)   The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the subchapter, to adapt the
application of the subchapter to the necessities of the case to the end that
the spirit of the subchapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or decision rendered by the Board shall have the right,
within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to
petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector, pending a final disposition of the cause.
(Ord. 33 § 14, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.12 COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS; METHODS OF SERVICE.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of the
persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to that
effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be made
by publishing the same, at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provision of this subchapter in a newspaper
having general circulation in the county. Where service is made by publication,
a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. 33 § 15, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.13 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   (1)   After failure of an owner of a building to comply with an order
of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and upon
adoption by the county of an ordinance authorizing and directing him or her to
do so, as provided by G.S. § 153A-121 and §
151.11(C), the Inspector shall proceed to cause the building(s) to be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards of fitness established
by this subchapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as
directed by this subchapter, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance
of the building a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for
human habitation and occupancy is prohibited and unlawful.”
      (2)   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county where the property is located, and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner in the grantor index.
(Ord. 33 § 16, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 COST; LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 153A-123(c), the cost of any repairs, alterations or
improvements, or of vacating or closing, or removal or demolition, or other
abatements caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
151.13 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. This lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected in the
same manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. 33 § 17, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.15 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 153A-123
and §
151.16, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 33 § 18, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.16 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the county, the provision which establishes the higher standards or more
stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the residents of the county shall prevail.
(Ord. 33 § 20, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.17 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building for human
habitation or use to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter or improve the
same, or to vacate, close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the
Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in
the order. Each day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with
the order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building for human
habitation or use with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.11, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in the order for its repair, alternation or improvement or its vacation and
closing.
      (2)   Each day that the occupancy continues after the prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 33 § 21, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective on July 1, 2002.
(Ord. 33 § 23, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The violation of any provision of §§
151.01 through
151.18 shall constitute a misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty established by division (B)(1) above,
and the remedies provided by other provisions of this subchapter, violation of
any provision of §§
151.01 through
151.18 may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 33 § 21, passed 2-4-2002)
CHAPTER 152: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Jurisdiction
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Title
   
152.005   Definitions
General Regulations
   
152.015   Compliance
   
152.016   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.017   Establishment of development permit
   
152.018   Fees
   
152.019   Other approval required
   
152.020   Interpretation
   
152.021   Warning; disclaimer of liability
   
152.022   Lot requirements
   
152.023   Parking of recreational vehicles or travel trailers
   
152.024   Zoned areas
   
152.025   Existing mobile home parks or manufactured home parks
   
152.026   Variances
Housing Standards and Classifications
   
152.040   Housing codes and regulations
   
152.041   Class A Multi-Sectional Manufactured Homes
   
152.042   Class B Single-Section Manufactured Homes
   
152.043   Class C Multi-Sectional or Single-Section Mobile Homes
   
152.044   Class D Modular Housing
   
152.045   Class E Site-Built Housing
   
152.046   Requirements for placement of a manufactured home within a park
   
152.047   Permitted uses by housing type
Procedure for Securing Approval
   
152.060   Approval required
   
152.061   Development plan submittal requirements
   
152.062   Review of development plan
   
152.063   Notification of review/action by Planning Board
   
152.064   Development plan approval
   
152.065   Issuance of development permit
   
152.066   Final approval
Design Standards
   
152.080   General design standards
   
152.081   General requirements
   
152.082   Minimum development requirements
   
152.083   Naming of development
   
152.084   Naming of streets
   
152.085   Identification sign required
   
152.086   Grading and drainage
   
152.087   Roads and drives
   
152.088   Access requirements
   
152.089   Setbacks
   
152.090   Parking
   
152.091   Landscaping
   
152.092   Installation, alteration and use of utilities
   
152.093   Water
   
152.094   Sanitary facilities
   
152.095   Solid waste disposal
   
152.096   Insect and rodent control measures
   
152.097   Residential fencing and walls
   
152.098   Animal control; site development
   
152.099   Recreational areas and facilities requirements for 10,000-square-foot
lots
   
152.100   Registration
   
152.101   Park manager or owner quarters
Administration
   
152.115   Procedures; general
   
152.116   Notice
   
152.117   Organization
   
152.118   Alternate members
   
152.119   Terms
   
152.120   Compensation
   
152.121   Technical Review Committee
Board of Adjustment
   
152.135   Authority
   
152.136   Membership
   
152.137   Voting
   
152.138   Court review
   
152.139   Notice of decision
   
152.140   Oaths
   
152.141   Appeals to Board
   
152.142   Variances
 
   
152.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planning Board, see §§
150.20 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and guide the establishment
of manufactured home parks in order to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the county.
   (B)   This chapter is designed to accomplish the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To further the orderly layout of manufactured home parks;
      (2)   To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
      (3)   To provide adequate light and air;
      (4)   To ensure that facilities for transportation, parking, water,
sewerage and recreation are provided for manufactured home park residents;
      (5)   To maintain and preserve natural topography, cover, significant
landmarks and trees;
      (6)   To provide a framework for processes necessary for the review and
approval of development plans; and
      (7)   To include the public in considerations of development adjoining
their property and neighborhood.
(Ord. 3 § 1.1, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.002 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the establishment of each and every new
manufactured home park and the alteration or expansion of existing mobile home
parks or manufactured home parks lying within the jurisdiction of the county
and within the jurisdiction of any municipality whose governing body by
resolution agrees to the regulation.
(Ord. 3 § 1.2, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Existing parks, see §
152.025
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   The county hereby exercises its authority to adopt and enforce a
manufactured home park ordinance under the provision granted by the G.S. §
153A-121.
(Ord. 3 § 1.3, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.004 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Manufactured Home Park Ordinance, Vance
County, North Carolina, except herein, where it shall be known as this chapter.
(Ord. 3 § 1.4, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right to cross property.
   ACCESSORY USE(S). A structure or use that:
      (1)   Is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with a
principal building or use;
      (2)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or a principal
use;
      (3)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building
or principal use served;
       (4)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants,
business or industry, in the principal building or principal use served; and
      (5)   Is located on the same zone lot as the principal building or use
served.
   BUILDABLE OR ZONE LOT. One or more lots of record in 1 undivided ownership
with sufficient total area, exclusive of easements, flood hazards, well and
septic tank fields; sufficient total dimensions; and access to permit
construction thereon of a principal building together with its required parking
and planting yards.
   COUNTY. Refers to Vance County, North Carolina.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, trust, partnership, association or corporation
engaged in development or proposed development of a manufactured home park.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavations or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan prepared in accordance with §
152.061. Sufficient detail and sufficient accuracy shall be used in the
preparation of the plan of the existing physical characteristics of the project
property, the proposed changes in those characteristics or proposed uses of the
project property to enable a full and comprehensive review of the proposed
development. The plan shall be for the purpose of obtaining permits or
approvals pursuant to this chapter.
   EASEMENT. A grant of 1 or more property rights, by the property owner, to or
for use by the public, a corporation or other entities.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development, or both. The word LOT
includes PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot, plot, parcel or tract recorded in the Office of the
Register of Deeds in conformance with the ordinance(s) in effect at the time of
recordation.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure that is composed of 1 or more
components, each of which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of
42 U.S.C. § 5401, the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act, and is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is
not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it
to be moved other than for the purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheel or axles. A
mobile home is not a MANUFACTURED HOME. A recreational vehicle or travel
trailer is not a MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT. A general category of development that
includes manufactured home subdivisions and manufactured home parks.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership on which 3
or more manufactured homes are located, where spaces are offered for use, lease
or rent for the purpose of locating manufactured homes. Also referred to as
LAND-LEASE or RENTAL COMMUNITIES. A group development site with required
improvements and utilities for the long-term location of manufactured homes
which may include services and facilities for the residents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A designated area of land within a manufactured
home park designed for the accommodation of a single manufactured dwelling home
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and/or intended for
the sale of lots for siting manufactured homes. MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS
shall conform to the same land development and site improvement standards that
apply to conventional subdivisions.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A transportable, factory-built home designed to be used as a year-
round residential dwelling and built prior to enactment of the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, which became effective
June 15, 1976.
      (2)   A MOBILE HOME does not meet the criteria for a manufactured home. A
recreational vehicle or travel trailer is not a MOBILE HOME.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-built home certified as meeting the North Carolina
Building Codes and associated codes as applicable to modular housing. Once
certified by the state, modular homes shall be subject to the same standards as
a site-built home.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, JUNKED.  
      (1)   A motor vehicle that does not display a current license plate and
is 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
         (b)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
         (c)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
      (2)   Provided, any motor vehicle used on a regular basis for business or
personal use shall not be caused to be removed or disposed.
   NONCONFORMING. A lot, structure, sign or use of land which is now prohibited
under the terms of this chapter, but was lawful at the date of this chapter’s
enactment, or any amendment or revision thereto.
   NONCONFORMING LOTS(S). A lot of record that does not conform to the
dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. The
nonconformity may result from adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
amendment.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE(S). A structure that does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter. The nonconformity may result from adoption of
this chapter or any subsequent amendment.
   OWNER. Any holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
   PLANNING DEPARTMENT. The Planning Department of the county.
   PRINCIPAL USE(S). The primary purpose or function that a lot or structure
serves or is proposed to serve.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A system which provides for collection and/or treatment of
wastewater from a development or property, and which is not maintained with
public funds.
   PRIVATE STREET.  A vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered for
dedication or use as a public street, but resembling a cul-de-sac or a local
street by carrying traffic from a series of driveways to the public street
system.
   PRIVATE WATER. A system which provides for the supply and/or distribution of
potable water for use by a development, project or owner, and which is not
operated or maintained by a government organization or utility district; also,
a community water system. A water supply that serves a community that is not an
incorporated municipality. This includes unincorporated communities,
subdivisions and/or manufactured home parks.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A system which provides for the collection and treatment of
sanitary sewage from more than 1 property and is owned and operated by a
government organization or sanitary district.
   PUBLIC STREET.  
      (1)   A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which either
has been accepted by NCDOT for maintenance; or is not yet accepted, but in
which the roadway design and construction have been approved under public
standards for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Alleys are specifically excluded.
   PUBLIC WATER. A system which provides distribution of potable water for more
than 1 property and is owned and operated by a government organization or
utility district.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is built on a single chassis,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty vehicle,
and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure or
activity and the property line, street right-of-way line or street centerline.
   SHALL. Intended to indicate a mandatory requirement.
   SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the Board of County
Commissioners the right to maintain unobstructed view across property located
at a street or lane intersection.
   SLOPE. An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as
a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance, commonly expressed as 2:1.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. A person who practices soil science and is licensed in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 89F.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a travelway for vehicles and also available, with the consent of the
appropriate governmental agency, for installation and maintenance of sidewalks,
traffic control devices, traffic signs, street name signs, historical marker
signs, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, gas lines, power
lines and communication lines.
   TENANT. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others occupies a
building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan adopted by the Board of County Commissioners for
the development of existing and proposed major streets that will adequately
serve the future travel needs of an area in an efficient and cost-effective
manner.
   TRACT. All contiguous land and bodies of water in 1 ownership, or contiguous
land and bodies of water in diverse ownership, being developed as a unit,
although not necessarily all at 1 time.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or structures is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which land or structures is occupied or
maintained.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement that grants the Board of County Commissioners
or other utility providers the right to install and thereafter maintain any and
all utilities, including but not limited to water lines, sewer lines, septic
tank drain fields, storm sewer lines, electrical power lines, telephone lines,
natural gas lines and community antenna television systems.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the terms of this chapter, where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in an unnecessary hardship and requiring the official permission
from the Board of Adjustment to depart from the requirements of this chapter.
   WAIVER. Official permission from any designated body, other than the Board
of Adjustment, to depart from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 3 Art. 8, passed 9-14-1998)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.015 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 3 § 2.1, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Existing mobile home parks, see §
152.025
§ 152.016 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This adoption and implementation of this chapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, deed
restrictions or other county ordinances.
      (2)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (B)   The following may impose additional regulations for land uses and
structures located in the county and are hereby adopted and incorporated into
this chapter by reference as though it was copied herein fully. However, where
this chapter and another regulation conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the
more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
      (1)   The North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted by the Building
Code Council and enforced by state and local code enforcement officials, and
including all volumes;
      (2)   The National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards;
      (3)   The National Flood Insurance Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance; and
      (4)   The County Watershed Protection Ordinance, Chapter 154 of this code
of ordinances.
   (C)   The following agencies may impose additional regulations for land uses
and structures located in the county and are hereby referenced. However, where
this chapter and another regulation conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the
more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
      (1)   The North Carolina Department of Transportation;
      (2)   The North Carolina Department of Human Resources, Environmental
Health Division and the Vance County Department of Public and Environmental
Health;
      (3)   The City of Henderson, for connections to public water and sewer
supplies; and
      (4)   North Carolina Division of Water Quality–Sedimentation Control.
(Ord. 3 § 2.2, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.017 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
   (B)   A permit shall be construed as permission to proceed with work and not
as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any of the provisions of
this chapter or any regulations included by reference. Issuance of a permit
shall not prevent the Planning Department or Inspection Department from
thereafter requiring correction of errors in plans, construction or violations
of this chapter.
(Ord. 3 § 2.3, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.018 FEES.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall establish a schedule of fees,
charges and expenses, and a collection procedure, for permits, plan reviews,
inspections, variances, appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter.
No permit, certificate, variance and the like shall be issued unless or until
the costs, charges, fees or expenses as established have been paid in full, nor
shall any action be taken on proceedings before the administrative board
authorized by this chapter unless or until charges and fees have been paid in
full. A fee schedule is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein, and shall hereafter be reviewed on an annual basis.
(Ord. 3 § 2.4, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.019 OTHER APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   The granting of a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall in
no way affect any other type of approval required by any other statute or
ordinance of the state or any political subdivision of the state or of the
United States, but shall be construed as an added requirement.
   (B)   No permit for the construction of any structure to be located shall be
granted unless the applicant has first obtained the permit required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 3 § 2.5, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.020 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements; liberally construed in favor of the
Board of County Commissioners; and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other
powers granted under state statutes.
(Ord. 3 § 2.6, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.021 WARNING; DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of regulation required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on many considerations.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the county or
by any officer or employee thereof for any damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 3 § 2.7, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.022 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof
shall be erected except in conformity with the regulations herein:
   (A)   Every residential building hereafter erected, moved or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot. In no case shall there be more than 1
principal building and its customary accessory building(s) on any lot, except
where a regulating district has been adopted which permits otherwise;
   (B)   No lot shall be reduced in size such that compliance with respect to
any development, health or safety requirements cannot be met. Examples of this
requirement are but not limited to: frontage, building coverage, area, built-
upon area, width, setback, parking, landscape, distance between well and septic
tank, replacement drainage fields or signage. Nor shall any nonconformity or
violation be increased;
   (C)   Where 2 or more contiguous lots in 1 ownership form a buildable lot,
that buildable lot shall not be reduced in size such that compliance with
respect to any development, health or safety requirements cannot be met.
Examples of this requirement are but not limited to: frontage, building
coverage, area, built-upon area, width, setback, parking, landscape, distance
between well and septic tank, replacement drainage fields or signage. Nor shall
any nonconformity or violation be increased;
   (D)   The prohibitions in divisions (B) and (C) of this section shall not
apply if the lot size is reduced as a direct result of an acquisition or
condemnation proceeding by the county, the city or the state;
   (E)   Where 2 or more contiguous lots in 1 ownership form a buildable lot,
the lots shall be combined or recombined into 1 lot prior to the issuance of
any permits;
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the
plans, construction or designated use of a building or structure where a
building permit was secured prior to the adoption of this chapter, so long as
the building permit remains valid;
   (G)   Every lot created shall have permanent, direct access to a public
road. No lot shall be created that is landlocked or that does not have
permanent ingress or egress to the property;
   (H)   Every lot created shall have an assured water supply and shall either
have access to a public sewer or shall have the ability to sustain a septic
tank system, including its drainage fields and replacement drainage fields; and
   (I)   Every lot created shall be capable of meeting the standards of this
chapter. Every lot created shall be usable by virtue of size, soil type,
topography, access to roads, water and sewage disposal.
(Ord. 3 § 2.9, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.023 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES OR TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a recreational vehicle, also known as a
travel trailer, shall not be deemed a dwelling unit. The usage of a
recreational vehicle for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes and the
connection of the vehicle to utility services (other than for periodic
maintenance or repair purposes) shall be prohibited, unless the vehicle is
located in a camping and recreational vehicle park, so designed to accommodate
recreation vehicles.
(Ord. 3 § 2.10, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024 ZONED AREAS.
   In areas of the county where a zoning ordinance is in effect, residential
development shall be permitted only in conformance with the regulations of the
zoned district in which it is located.
(Ord. 3 § 2.11, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.025 EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARKS OR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks existing at the time of the adoption of the
ordinance (Ord. 3, passed November 6, 1972) will be allowed to be continued.
   (B)   Mobile home parks and manufactured home parks constructed in
compliance with the ordinance after the adoption of this chapter (November 6,
1972), but prior to amendments shall be allowed to continue.
   (C)   (1)   Mobile home parks and manufactured home parks constructed after
the adoption of this chapter (November 6, 1972), but prior to amendments that
were not in compliance with the original ordinance shall not be relieved of any
responsibility for the adherence to the original ordinance.
      (2)   The provision for the continuance of parks constructed prior to
November 6, 1972, or between November 2, 1972 and the adoption of the
amendments to this chapter, shall not be interpreted as permission to continue
or initiate any unsafe or unhealthy practices, nor shall it be interpreted to
relieve the owner of any responsibility to comply with other existing
ordinances or regulations of any regulatory authority. Any legal action pending
as a result of noncompliance with the original ordinance shall not be
interpreted to be affected by the adoption of amendments to this chapter.
   (D)   Mobile home parks or manufactured home parks existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter and any amendments thereof shall not be allowed to
expand or increase in any manner unless the expansion meets fully the
requirements set forth in this chapter and any amendments thereof.
(Ord. 3 § 2.12, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.026 VARIANCES.
   Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
the County Board of Adjustments may approve a variance, if the variance can be
made without destroying the intent of the chapter. Any request for a variance
shall be reviewed and decided upon in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.135 through
152.142 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3 § 2.13, passed 9-14-1998)
HOUSING STANDARDS AND CLASSIFICATIONS
§ 152.040 HOUSING CODES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All residential housing to be placed or constructed in the county
shall conform to the appropriate standards for the type of housing.
      (1)   Site-built or modular housing. All site-built or modular housing or
any part thereof shall be constructed, altered, expanded, extended, converted
or structurally altered in conformity with the most current North Carolina
State Building Code, as adopted by the Building Code Council and enforced by
state and local code enforcement officials, and including all appropriate
volumes.
      (2)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes shall be manufactured or
constructed in conformity with the National Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards, with the authority of 42 U.S.C. § 5401, the most current
version.
   (B)   All manufactured homes shall be placed in conformity with:
      (1)   The authority of 42 U.S.C. § 5401, the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards, the most current version;
      (2)   The most current State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes; and
      (3)   This chapter.
   (C)   Any manufactured home that is to be altered (other than cosmetically),
expanded, extended, converted or structurally altered, the construction shall
conform with the most current State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes, except that where the wording for inspection by
local officials reads “may be inspected,” it shall read “shall be inspected;”
and in conformity with the most current North Carolina State Building Code, as
adopted by the Building Code Council and enforced by state and local code
enforcement officials, and including all appropriate volumes. The alteration,
expansion, extension or conversions shall only occur with a permit obtained
from the local building official.
(Ord. 3 § 3.1, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.041 CLASS A MULTI-SECTIONAL MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Class A-1. A multi-sectional manufactured home which has not been
placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or not been used for human
habitation previously; and that satisfies the compatibility criteria.
   (B)   Class A-2. A multi-sectional manufactured home which has been placed
on a permanent or temporary site and/or has been used for human habitation
previously, that satisfies the compatibility criteria, and that is found upon
inspection to be in excellent or good condition and safe and fit for
residential occupancy.
   (C)   Class A-3. A multi-sectional manufactured home which has or has not
been placed on a permanent or temporary foundation and/or has or has not been
used for human habitation previously, that is found upon inspection to be in
excellent or good condition and safe and fit for residential occupancy, and
that does not satisfy the compatibility criteria.
   (D)   Class A-4. A multi-sectional manufactured home which has or has not
been placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or has or has not been used
for human habitation previously, and that is found upon inspection to be in
poor condition and is unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 3 § 4.1, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.042 CLASS B SINGLE-SECTION MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Class B-1. A single-section manufactured home which has not been
placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or not been used for human
habitation previously, and that satisfies the compatibility criteria.
   (B)   Class B-2. A single-section manufactured home which has been placed on
a permanent or temporary site and/or has been used for human habitation
previously, that satisfies the compatibility criteria, and that is found upon
inspection to be in excellent or good condition and safe and fit for
residential occupancy.
   (C)   Class B-3. A single-section manufactured home, which has or has not
been placed on a permanent or temporary foundation and/or has or has not been
used for human habitation previously, that is found upon inspection to be in
excellent or good condition and safe and fit for residential occupancy, and
that does not satisfy the compatibility criteria.
   (D)   Class B-4. A multi-section manufactured home, which has or has not
been placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or has or has not been used
for human habitation previously, and that is found upon inspection to be in
poor condition and is unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 3 § 4.2, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.043 CLASS C MULTI-SECTIONAL OR SINGLE-SECTION MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Class C-1. A multi-sectional or single-section mobile home which has
been placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or has been used for human
habitation previously, that satisfies the compatibility criteria, and that is
found upon inspection to be in excellent or good condition and safe and fit for
residential occupancy.
   (B)   Class C-2. A multi-sectional or single-section mobile home which has
been placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or has been used for human
habitation previously, and that is found upon inspection to be in poor
condition and is unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 3 § 4.3, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions for mobile homes, see §
152.005
§ 152.044 CLASS D MODULAR HOUSING.
   (a)   Class D-1. A factory-built home certified as meeting the North
Carolina Building Codes and associated codes as applicable to modular housing
homes, which has not been placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or not
been used for human habitation previously.
   (b)   Class D-2. A factory-built home certified as meeting the North
Carolina Building Codes and associated codes as applicable to modular housing
homes, which has been placed on a permanent or temporary site and/or has been
used for human habitation previously, and that is found upon inspection to be
in excellent or good condition and safe and fit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 3 § 4.4, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.045 CLASS E SITE-BUILT HOUSING.
   (A)   Class E-1. A site-built home constructed in conformity with the most
current North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted by the Building Code
Council and enforced by state and local code enforcement officials, and
including all appropriate volumes, which has not been placed on a permanent or
temporary site and/or not been used for human habitation previously.
   (B)   Class E-2. A site-built home constructed in conformity with the most
current North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted by the Building Code
Council and enforced by state and local code enforcement officials, and
including all appropriate volumes, which has been placed on a permanent or
temporary site and/or has been used for human habitation previously, and that
is found upon inspection to be in excellent or good condition and safe and fit
for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 3 § 4.5, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.046 REQUIREMENTS FOR PLACEMENT OF A MANUFACTURED HOME WITHIN A PARK.
   (A)   The unit is occupied only as a single-family dwelling.
   (B)   The unit is set up in accordance with the standards established by the
North Carolina Department of Insurance.
   (C)   (1)   The unit must have a continuous and complete perimeter
foundation skirting for the main body. The purpose of this requirement is:
         (a)   To prevent the accumulation of combustible materials, debris or
garbage under the unit;
         (b)   To prevent infestation of the area and damage to housing
components by wildlife; and
         (c)   To prevent accidental exposure to housing systems.
      (2)   Examples of unacceptable skirting materials include any material of
a combustible nature, materials unacceptable for exterior construction or any
wood products not treated for moisture resistance, and include but are not
limited to: plywood, cardboard, untreated wood materials, corrugated sheet
metal, corrugated sheet plastic, slatted fencing or wire mesh.
   (D)   (1)   Stairs, porches, ramps and other means of entrance or exit are
installed or constructed in accordance with the standards set by the North
Carolina State Building Code, attached firmly to the primary structure,
provided with appropriate lateral bracing, is structurally independent and
anchored securely to the ground.
      (2)   Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or
entrance platform with a minimum of 24 square feet. The use of wooden stairs
only is prohibited at any entrance.
   (E)   All new or used manufactured homes must have required smoke detectors
intact and in good operating order.
(Ord. 3 § 4.7, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.047 PERMITTED USES BY HOUSING TYPE.
   (A)   A manufactured home park is permitted in the following types of
developments:
      (1)   A-1;
      (2)   A-2;
      (3)   A-3;
      (4)   B-1;
      (5)   B-2; and
      (6)   B-3.
   (B)   A manufactured home park is not permitted in the following types of
developments:
      (1)   A-4;
      (2)   B-4;
      (3)   C-1;
      (4)   C-2;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle;
      (6)   D-2; and
      (7)   E-2.
   (C)   A manufactured home park may be permitted if the owner/manager is in
residence in the following types of developments. This requires development
plan approval:
      (1)   D-1; and
      (2)   E-1.
(Ord. 3 § 4.8, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
PROCEDURE FOR SECURING APPROVAL
§ 152.060 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No manufactured home park within the jurisdiction of the county shall be
established, altered or expanded until a development plan has been approved and
all necessary permits obtained.
(Ord. 3 § 5.1, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.061 DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.  The Board of County Commissioners and the County Planning
Board have the right and responsibility to review and require revisions to any
proposed development plan. The purpose of this review is to relieve
demonstrable adverse impacts of the development upon public safety, health, or
welfare; to determine that adequate and sustainable utilities and services are
available for the development; protect public investments in roads, drainage
facilities, sewage facilities, public water supplies; to conserve the value of
buildings; and to assure that the regulations of the county are upheld.
   (B)   Development plan required. Prior to the commencement of any
construction, including clearing and grading, of a new manufactured home park
or the expansion of an existing mobile home park or manufactured home park, a
development plan shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, reviewed and approved. No permits of any kind shall be issued on a lot
until a development plan is approved.
   (C)   Two-step plan submittal, review and approval process, or optional 3-
step process.  
      (1)   General process. The submittal, review and approval process shall
include:
         (a)   A conceptual development plan will be prepared and submitted for
public comment. This step is optional; however, a conceptual plan shall be
prepared if the developer chooses to exercise this option;
         (b)   A preliminary development plan will be prepared, submitted,
reviewed by a Technical Review Committee, reviewed by the Planning Board,
commented on by the public, and will receive preliminary approval/denial by the
Planning Board; and
         (c)   A final development plan with all certifications and approvals
will submitted, reviewed by the Planning Director and, when complete, will be
forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for final action.
      (2)   Conceptual development plan (optional).  
         (a)   Prior to the preparation, review and approval of a development
plan, a conceptual plan may be submitted. The purpose of this submittal is to
obtain comments from the Planning Board and the public, particularly
neighboring properties, regarding the development of a proposed manufactured
home park. This step is optional; however, a conceptual plan shall be prepared
if the developer chooses to exercise this option. A pre-application conference
is recommended for developers prior to beginning a project. Various departments
have information, requirements and insight necessary to a successful project.
         (b)   The conceptual plan shall be of sufficient detail to enable the
public to determine the basic design of the park. It shall include:
            1.   A boundary of the property to be developed;
            2.   Location of proposed entrances and street locations;
            3.   Proposed number and size of lots;
            4.   Total acreage in the park;
            5.   Location of any proposed common areas or structures;
            6.   Location of any natural or manmade bodies of water;
            7.   Tax map, block and parcel number; and
            8.   Vicinity map showing the location of the development in
relationship to major highways and state route (S.R.) roads.
      (3)   Preliminary development plan.  
         (a)   The developer shall prepare a preliminary development plan in
accordance with this chapter and submit 14 copies. Plans may be submitted in a
digital form with the permission of the Planning Director. The proposed
development plan shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor or other
qualified design professional. Plans shall contain all required information.
Any plan that is incomplete, as determined by the Planning Department, shall
not be forwarded for review by the Technical Review Committee and shall be
returned to the owner for necessary revisions. The development plan must be
received at least 10 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
County Technical Review Committee. All fees shall be due and payable when the
development plan is submitted according to the schedule of fees.
         (b)   The development plan submitted shall be drawn at a scale of 50
feet to 1 inch or larger, and shall be 24 inches by 36 inches in dimension
(development may require more than 1 sheet).
         (c)   The following items shall be required for a complete submittal:
            1.   The name of the proposed development, the names and address of
the owner or owners, and the engineer or surveyor, with registration number;
            2.   Date of preparation and subsequent revisions, scale (drawn and
written), and accurate north arrow;
            3.   Boundaries of the tract shown with all bearings, distances and
including curve data, if applicable. Ties to State Coordinate System shall be
shown;
            4.   A legal description of the property, including ties to the
State Coordinate System, and the calculated area of the site in square feet
and/or acres;
            5.   Tax map, block and parcel number;
            6.   The location of all state boundaries, county boundaries,
municipal boundaries and any extra-territorial jurisdictional (ETJ) boundaries
within 200 feet of the proposed development site shall be shown on the
development plan;
            7.   Development plan showing existing and proposed (public or
private) streets shown with names and street numbers, driveways, recreation
areas, parking spaces or areas (including location and dimension), service
buildings, water courses, rock outcroppings, easements, mobile home spaces
location, dimension and area), and structures (location and dimension);
            8.   Location of existing shrubs, and trees, generally; and
proposed landscape areas or stormwater retention areas (may be shown on a
separate plan);
            9.   Location of all existing fire hydrants within 300 feet of
property and all public water or sewer lines within 300 feet of the property;
            10.   Vicinity map showing the location of the development in
relationship to major highways and state route (S.R.) roads;
            11.   Names of adjoining property owners and present use of the
adjoining property;
            12.   Name, address and telephone number of the utility companies
serving the project;
            13.   Any existing or proposed utility system for gas, surface
water drainage, street lights, electrical power, cable, telephone, water
supply, fire hydrants, solid waste disposal and sewage disposal facilities;
            14.   The location, system design, distribution lines and capacity
of water system;
            15.   The location, system design, distribution lines and capacity
of sewage disposal system. If septic tanks are to be used, a septic tank permit
application may be submitted for each lot. Submittal of permit applications
early in the project will help to avoid delays in site evaluations;
            16.   Proposed method of solid waste storage, collection and
disposal plans. Designation of refuse collection area(s) with dimensions;
            17.   Proposed finished elevations for paved areas and retention
areas with arrows indicating direction of surface flow;
            18.   Location of light poles;
            19.   Location, height and type of material for fences, walls and
the like;
            20.   Location and specifications for mail delivery;
            21.   The maximum width and length of manufactured home which can
be accommodated on each individual lot. Show all required setback lines;
            22.   The location, dimension, composition and numbering system for
each manufactured home lot marker;
            23.   The location, dimension, lighting and composition of a sign
identifying the name of the manufactured home park and the address of the park;
            24.   Land contours with vertical intervals of not less than 2 feet
for all manufactured home parks. Location of any floodplain or watershed
boundaries within 100 feet; and
            25.   A preliminary soils report prepared by a registered soil
scientist. It is recommended that flagging done by the soil scientist should be
left in place until site evaluation is completed by the Public Health
Department.
      (4)   Final development plan. The developer shall submit a final
development plan which shall include all items in division (C)(3)(c) of this
section. It shall also include approval of the solid waste system, water system
and wastewater system. It shall include all revisions or additions required
during the preliminary development plan approval.
(Ord. 3 § 5.2, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.062 REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Conceptual development plan. The conceptual plan will be reviewed by
the Planning Director to determine that required items identified in §
152.061(C)(2) are included on the plan. The Planning Director will forward the
conceptual plan to the Planning Board. The Planning Board and the public will
have the opportunity to review the conceptual development plan and make
comments at a public meeting.
   (B)   Preliminary development plan.  
      (1)   (a)   The Planning Department shall circulate copies of the
proposed development to the Technical Review Committee at least 7 days prior to
the next scheduled meeting of the Technical Review Committee. The developer
shall be notified of the date, time and place of the meeting of the Technical
Review Committee at which the proposed development will be reviewed. The
developer is encouraged to attend the meeting.
         (b)   The Planning Department shall also circulate copies of the
proposed development plan to the following offices for review and comment, as
appropriate: the public school system; the United States Postal Service;
appropriate utilities; the North Carolina Department of Transportation; and
other local, state or federal agencies as appropriate.
      (2)   Each individual shall be responsible for the review of those items
of the development plan which pertain to his or her area of expertise. Comments
shall be placed in writing and submitted to the Chairperson at the meeting.
      (3)   A “memorandum of understanding” shall be formulated based on the
findings of the group. All deficiencies noted shall be included in the
memorandum of understanding. The memorandum of understanding shall be forwarded
to the developer, a copy sent to each committee member and a copy placed in the
development file. All deficiencies shall be resolved prior to the formulation
of a recommendation to the Planning Board. Corrections of minor deficiencies
may be administered by the Planning Director. Major deficiencies shall require
subsequent review by the Technical Review Committee. The Technical Review
Committee shall review the proposed development plan to determine if the
proposed development plan is in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this chapter. The County Health Department shall review the proposed
development plan to determine if the plan is in accordance with the minimum
health standards and regulations, including a determination that each well is
located so as to provide a minimum pollution-free radius of 100 feet.
      (4)   Each agency shall review the plan within a reasonable time. The
Technical Review Committee shall formulate and forward a recommendation to the
Planning Board for approval or denial based on its findings, once all
deficiencies in the plan have been corrected.
      (5)   (a)   The Planning Director will forward the development plan to
the Planning Board with the recommendation of the Technical Review Committee.
         (b)   It shall be scheduled, subject to filing deadlines, to be
reviewed at the next regular meeting of the Planning Board.
      (6)   The Planning Board shall review the development plan and review the
recommendations of the Technical Review Committee. The Planning Board shall
hear comments from the public. It shall give preliminary approval, preliminary
conditional approval or shall deny the request for approval. The Planning Board
may impose additional conditions as it deems necessary for preliminary
approval. The Planning Board shall specify its reasons for its action. Action
on a proposed plan may not be tabled for more than 2 regular meetings without
the owner’s specific written request. It is recommended that the park
developer, or his or her agent, be present to answer questions concerning the
proposed development plan.
   (C)   Final development plan review. The Planning Director will review the
final plan submittal to determine that all necessary revisions and additions
required during the preliminary development plan process have been made, that
all required approvals and certifications have been executed and all required
fees have been paid. The plan, when complete, shall be forwarded to the Board
of County Commissioners for final action.
(Ord. 3 § 5.3, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.063 NOTIFICATION OF REVIEW/ACTION BY PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Conceptual development plan.  
      (1)   (a)   A notice of a conceptual plan review will be published in a
newspaper of general circulation.
         (b)   The notice shall include the time, date and place of the meeting
and invite the public to add its comments to the proposed manufactured home
park. A description of the location of the proposed development and a vicinity
map may be included to clarity the location of the proposed development.
      (2)   (a)   A similar notice shall be mailed, at least 7 days prior to
the Planning Board meeting, to each property owner wholly or partially within
1,000 feet of the property being developed.
         (b)   For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the owner of property
being developed shall be responsible for providing the name and address of each
property owner within 1,000 feet, as obtained from the County Tax Collector,
within 15 days of submittal.
      (3)   The developer shall be notified of the date, time and place of the
meeting of the Planning Board at which the proposed development will be
reviewed. The developer is encouraged to attend the meeting.
   (B)   Preliminary development plan.  
      (1)   A public hearing notice of preliminary development plan review and
action by the Planning Board will be published in a newspaper of general
circulation. This publication will state the time, date and place of the
meeting and invite the public to add its comments at a public hearing on the
proposed development. A description of the location of the proposed development
and a vicinity map may be included to clarify the location of the proposed
development. A legal description of the property shall be included.
      (2)   A similar notice shall be mailed, at least 7 days prior to the
Planning Board meeting, to each property owner wholly or partially within 1,000
feet of the property being developed. For the purpose of giving mailed notice,
it shall be the responsibility of the developer to obtain a list of the names
and addresses of each property owner within 1,000 feet, as obtained from the
County Tax Collector, within 15 days of submittal and provide this list to the
Planning Department on forms provided. A developer shall not develop a portion
of a property more than 1,000 from any property line for the express purpose of
circumventing notification of adjoining property owners.
      (3)   The developer shall be notified of the date, time and place of the
meeting of the Planning Board at which the proposed development will be
reviewed and a decision made. The developer is encouraged to attend the
meeting.
(Ord. 3 § 5.4, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.064 DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval of preliminary plan.  
      (1)   Review, action.
         (a)   The Planning Board shall review the development plan and review
the recommendations of the Technical Review Committee.
         (b)   The Planning Board shall hear comments from the public.
         (c)   It shall give preliminary approval; preliminary conditional
approval; or shall deny the request for approval.
         (d)   The Planning Board may impose additional conditions as it deems
necessary for preliminary approval. The Planning Board shall specify its
reasons for its action. Action on a proposed plan may not be tabled for more
than 2 regular meetings without the owner’s specific written request. It is
recommended that the park developer, or his or her agent, be present to answer
questions concerning the proposed development plan.
      (2)   Preliminary approval. After the Planning Board has given
preliminary approval to the proposed development plan, the developer shall
proceed to prepare a final development plan. The developer shall make any
required revisions or additions and shall obtain final approvals or
certification for the solid waste, water and wastewater systems. The final
development plan shall be submitted to the Director of Planning.
      (3)   Conditional approval. If the development plan is granted
conditional approval by the Planning Board, the applicant shall revise and
resubmit the plan. The Planning Department shall review the revised plan and,
if it meets all the approval conditions and is otherwise substantially
unaltered, shall signify on the plan the change from conditional approval to
approval. If the development plan is not revised within 60 days to meet the
approval conditions, or the applicant notifies the Planning Department that he
or she is unwilling to revise the development plan, it shall be deemed denied.
      (4)   Denied development plan. If a development plan is denied, the same
or similar development plan shall not be submitted for a period of 12 months.
The Planning Director shall determine whether a development plan has changed
enough to warrant reconsideration. If the Planning Board should disapprove the
proposed development plan, the reasons for the action shall be given to the
park developer or his or her agent.
      (5)   Expiration of preliminary development plan approval. If the final
development plan, with required revisions, additions and with the required
approvals, is not submitted for approval within 180 days of the preliminary
development plan approval, that approval shall expire, and a new development
plan must be submitted in accordance with the procedures in this section.
   (B)   Approval of final development plan.  
      (1)   Review, action. The Board of Commissioners shall review the final
development plan, review the recommendations of the Technical Review Committee
and review the actions of the Planning Board. The Board of Commissioners shall
give final approval, conditional approval or denial of the proposed plan. The
Board of Commissioners may impose additional conditions as it deems necessary.
Action on a proposed plan may not be tabled for more than 2 regular meetings
without the owner’s specific written request. It is recommended that the park
developer, or his or her agent, be present to answer questions concerning the
proposed development plan.
      (2)   Approval. After the Board of Commissioners has approved the
proposed final development plan, 1 approved copy shall be sent to the Code
Enforcement Office and 1 approved copy shall be given to the developer or his
or her agent. The original shall be kept on file at the Planning Department.
The developer or his or her agent shall then apply for construction permits to
the County Health Department and the Code Enforcement Office.
      (3)   Conditional approval. If the development plan is granted
conditional approval by the Board of Commissioners, the applicant shall revise
and resubmit the plan. The Planning Department shall review the revised plan
and, if it meets all the approval conditions and is otherwise substantially
unaltered, shall signify on the plan the change from conditional approval to
final approval. If the development plan is not revised within 60 days to meet
the approval conditions, or the applicant notifies the Planning Department that
he or she is unwilling to revise the development plan, it shall be deemed
denied.
      (4)   Denied development plan. If a development plan is denied, the same
or similar development plan shall not be submitted for a period of 12 months.
The Planning Director shall determine whether a development plan has changed
enough to warrant reconsideration. If the Board of Commissioners should
disapprove the proposed development plan, the reasons for that action shall be
given to the park developer or his or her agent.
      (5)   Expiration of development plan approval. If construction does not
begin within 2 years following development plan approval; or is begun within 2
years and then discontinued for a period greater than 180 days, the approval
shall expire, and a new development plan must be submitted in accordance with
the procedures in this section.
(Ord. 3 § 5.5, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.065 ISSUANCE OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   (a)   After receiving approval of the development plan by the Board
of County Commissioners, the Planning Department shall issue a development
permit.
         (b)   The intent of this permit is to enable the execution of the
approved development plan in the field and shall not be construed to entitle
the recipient to offer spaces for rent or lease, or to operate a manufactured
home park as defined in this chapter.
         (c)   The County Health Department and the Code Enforcement Office are
authorized to issue a construction permit.
      (2)   (a)   Phasing of projects.  Phased projects may be occupied in
phases as long as compliance is achieved in each phase and other requirements
are met.
         (b)   Concurrent review. Review of all development plans may be
concurrent.
   (B)   Expiration of development plan; development permit revocation/
approval. If construction does not begin within 2 years following development
plan approval, or is begun within 2 years and then discontinued for a period
greater than 180 days, the approval shall expire, and a new development plan
must be submitted in accordance with the procedures in this section.
      (1)   Any development plan or development permit which has expired and
for which the developer wishes to seek reapproval, the developer shall required
to be submit revised plans for review and approval and shall include all
modifications required by all current codes and ordinances at the time of the
new submittal.
      (2)   A development permit, once approved, may be revoked, pursuant to
division (C)(3) of this section, if there has been alteration of the site or
soil conditions, changes to the proposed facility, or document falsification
causing revocation of the permit.
   (C)   Administrative procedures.
      (1)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the local administrator shall make as many inspections of the work
as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising
this power, the administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      (2)   Stop-work orders.
         (a)   Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed,
reconstructed, altered or repaired, or property is in violation of this
chapter, the administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped.
         (b)   The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the
person doing the work.
         (c)   The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped,
the specific reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work
may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The local administrator may revoke and require the return of the
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
for the revocation.
         (b)   Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
         (c)   Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state
or local law may also be revoked.
      (4)   Periodic inspections. The local administrator and each member of
his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon presentation of
proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action.
      (5)   Investigation. The local administrator shall have the power to
conduct such investigation as he or she may reasonably deem necessary to carry
out his or her duties as prescribed in this chapter, and for this purpose to
enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose
of investigating and inspecting the sites of any complaints or alleged
violations of this chapter.
      (6)   Written statements.  The Board of County Commissioners or its agent
shall also have the power to require written statements, certificates and
certifications or the filing of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent
questions relating to complaints or alleged violations of this chapter.
      (7)   Violations to be corrected. When the local administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law in the property
he or she owns.
      (8)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or registered
mail to his or her last known address or by personal service:
         (a)   That the building or property is in violation of the chapter;
         (b)   That a hearing will be held before the local administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the notice,
at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   That following the hearing, the local administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
      (9)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant
to the notice prescribed above, the administrator shall find that the building
or development is in violation of the chapter, he or she shall make an order in
writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within such
period, not less than 60 days, as the administrator may prescribe; provided
that where the administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or
other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in a lesser
period as may be feasible.
      (10)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal from the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the administrator and the clerk within 10 days following
issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the
administrator shall be final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear an appeal
within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the
order.
      (11)    Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no
appeal has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the Board of County
Commissioners following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished in the discretion of the court.
      (12)   Continuing inspections.
         (a)   The County Health Department, the County Code Enforcement
Office, and/or the local administrator are hereby authorized and directed to
make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance
with this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owners of manufactured home
parks to give these agencies free access to the premises at reasonable times
for the purpose of inspection.
         (b)   The manufactured park owner and/or operator shall operate the
park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean
and sanitary condition.
      (13)   Suspension. The issuance of manufactured home permits for a
manufactured home park shall be suspended where violations of this chapter
occur.
      (14)   Notification of responsibilities. The park owner or operator shall
notify all occupants of the applicable provisions of this chapter and inform
them of their duties and responsibilities under this chapter.
(Ord. 3 § 5.6, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   When the developer has completed the construction of the
manufactured home park, he or she shall request final approval. The development
shall be inspected to determine whether the construction conforms to the
approved plans and the requirements of this chapter. The Code Enforcement
Office, the County Health Department and the County Planning Department shall
coordinate all final approvals for the development.
      (2)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued at the time the
development is in full compliance with this chapter and the approved
development plans.
   (B)   Additional regulations administered by the Code Enforcement Office
and/or the County Health Department shall be inspected and approved per those
regulations.
   (C)   The certificate of compliance, final approval by the Code Enforcement
Office and final approval by the County Health Department issued to the
developer shall constitute authority to lease or rent spaces in the
manufactured home park.
   (D)   When a manufactured home park is to be developed in phases, the
proposed development plan may be submitted for the entire development and
request for final inspection and a certificate of compliance may be made for
each phase developed.
(Ord. 3 § 5.7, passed 9-14-1998)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.080 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. The purpose of these guidelines is to give a sense of the
physical aspect of the county environment to those contemplating new
development in the community. Important to this physical appearance is the
design of the site, buildings and structures, the natural topography and plant
life, signs, street hardware, and miscellaneous other objects that are observed
by the public. These standards are not intended to restrict imagination,
innovation or variety, but rather to assist in focusing on design principles
which can produce creative solutions that will develop a satisfactory visual
appearance within the county, preserve taxable values, preserve natural
resources and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   The landscape shall be preserved in its natural state insofar as
practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal. Any grade changes shall be in
keeping with the general appearance of neighboring developed areas. The
orientation of individual building sites shall be such as to maintain maximum
natural topography and cover. Topography, tree cover and natural drainage ways
shall be treated as fixed determinants of road and lot configuration rather
than as malleable elements that can be changed to follow a preferred
development scheme.
      (2)   Streets shall be designed and located in such a manner as to
maintain and preserve natural topography, cover, significant landmarks and
trees; to minimize cut and fill; and to preserve and enhance views and vistas
on or off the subject parcel.
      (3)   Proposed development shall be related harmoniously to the terrain
and to the use, scale and architecture of existing buildings in the vicinity
that have functional or visual relationship to the proposed buildings. Proposed
buildings shall be related to their surroundings.
      (4)   All open space (landscaped and usable) shall be designed to add to
the visual amenities of the area by maximizing its visibility for persons
passing the site or overlooking it from nearby properties.
      (5)   (a)   The color, size, height, lighting and landscaping of signs
and structures shall be evaluated for compatibility with the local architecture
and the maintenance of views and vistas of natural landscapes, recognized
historic landmarks, parks and landscaping.
         (b)   The removal or disruption of historic, traditional or
significant uses, structures, or architectural elements shall be minimized
insofar as practicable, whether these exist on the site or on adjacent
properties.
(Ord. 3 § 6.1 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following standards shall be considered the minimum requirements for all
new manufactured home parks:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a new park or make an
addition or alteration to an existing park, unless a development plan has been
approved in accordance with §§
152.060 through
152.066;
   (B)   The transfer of title of a manufactured home park space or spaces by
sale or any other manner shall be prohibited within a manufactured home park,
as long as the manufactured home park is in operation;
   (C)   Approval of a development plan for the construction of a manufactured
home park shall in no way be construed as approval of a subdivision of land;
   (D)   Manufactured home parks may not be sold or transferred unless the
existing water and sewer systems meet current County Health Department
standards and are fully operational. A waiver may be approved by the Planning
Director where the use as a park is to be discontinued and where existing water
or sewer systems are to be removed, or where a letter of agreement is submitted
by the potential buyer stating what remedies will be made, when the remedies
shall be made and where the potential buyer states his or her understanding and
agreement that no new permits will be issued in the park until water and sewer
systems are brought into full compliance with this chapter and all pertinent
county public health standards;
   (E)   A business office for the exclusive purpose of park operations may be
located within a manufactured home park;
   (F)   Commercial operations are specifically prohibited within the park,
except that laundry facilities may be operated for the use of the residents,
either as an independent structure, in conjunction with the business office or
in conjunction with recreational facilities provided within the park. There
shall be no indication of commercial operation from outside the park;
   (G)   The sale of manufactured homes in the park on a commercial basis shall
not be permitted;
   (H)   Each manufactured home to be placed in the park shall be located on an
individual lot with individual connections to each utility;
   (I)   The park owner or his or her designee shall not allow the placement of
a manufactured home within a manufactured home park until the appropriate
county development permits, health permits and inspections have been finalized
and approval for the park received;
   (J)   The park owner or his or her designee shall not allow the connection
of any manufactured unit to utilities without the appropriate county
development permits, health department permits, code enforcement permits or
inspections;
   (K)   The park owner or his or her designee shall not allow the connection
of any manufactured unit to the utilities of any other manufactured unit, nor
shall not allow the connection of any manufactured unit to the utilities of any
other manufactured home space;
   (L)   The park owner or his or her designee shall provide individual utility
connections for each designated lot within the park. The park owner shall
provide 1 exterior water hose connection and 1 exterior GFI electrical fixture
for each manufactured lot;
   (M)   No more than 1 manufactured home shall be parked or set up on any 1
space;
   (N)   The park owner or his or her designee shall be responsible for
maintaining the park free of litter, debris and garbage;
   (O)   The park owner shall be responsible for the control of growth of
brush, weeds and grass in all areas of the park, including but not limited to
vacant lots, recreation areas, open areas and entrance areas. No growth shall
be allowed in excess of 12 inches at any time in order to prevent the growth of
noxious weeds considered detrimental to health and to prevent the growth of
harmful insects. All areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any
description. All cut or fallen trees, stumps, or rubbish shall be completely
removed from the manufactured home park and disposed of properly;
   (P)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
County Health Department;
   (Q)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulation of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests;
   (R)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage.
Lumber, pipe and other building materials shall be stored at least 1 foot above
the ground;
   (S)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be properly screened with
wire mesh or other suitable materials;
   (T)   Boxes for the delivery of mall, newspaper or other delivery shall be
located on-site. Boxes for deliveries of all types shall not be located on a
manufactured home space;
   (U)   Pre-existing dwellings on the site may remain on the site, provided
they occupy approved spaces with approved utility connections;
   (V)   No manufactured home may be placed on a lot designated for a smaller
sized unit. No multi-sectional manufactured unit may be placed on a lot
designated for a single-section manufactured unit. The location of a
recreational vehicle, tent or other temporary structure on a manufactured home
park space shall be prohibited for human occupancy as a residence; and
   (W)   Manufactured dwelling extensions and any other additions meeting the
North Carolina Building Code may be added to any manufactured dwelling,
provided that setback within the space can be met and a building permit is
obtained from the County Building Department. All these additions shall be
removed at the time as the manufactured home to which they were attached by
permit is removed from the space.
(Ord. 3 § 6.2 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.082 MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.  Mobile homes or manufactured housing used as dwellings
within the county and not parked within a manufactured home park as defined by
this chapter shall adhere to the following standards which are required of park
operators:
      (1)   (a)   1.   Where city or community water and sewer are available,
these services must be utilized and the property must consist of a minimum of
10,000 square feet; where septic tank and well are utilized the property must
consist of a minimum of 40,000 square feet or greater as determined by the
County Department of Public Health and the Director of Planning.
            2.   The Planning Director and the County Department of Public
Health may, in concert and only in full agreement, reduce the minimum
manufactured dwelling space where evidence is submitted to show, through use of
soil testing by a certified soils scientist and/or other supportable data, that
40,000 square feet is in excess of the size required for adequate sewage
disposal, and where no proposed or existing well site would be jeopardized. The
minimum lot size may be adjusted by whatever increment is judged appropriate by
the County Department of Public Health and the Planning Director. The minimum
lot size shall not be reduced below 30,000 square feet under any circumstances.
No request for a reduction of lot size will be considered unless submitted with
appropriate evidence.
         (b)   Well and septic tank must be located a minimum of 10 feet from
the property line, and all septic tank installations shall be a minimum of 100
feet from any well.
      (2)   (a)   1.   Owners of mobile home dwellings other than those living
within a mobile home park as defined by this chapter, must obtain a development
permit from the Planning Department, a permit from the County Health Department
pertaining to the above requirements, and a building permit from the Code
Enforcement Office prior to the parking or placement on any property within the
county.
            2.   A second manufactured unit may be placed on a single lot,
provided that this placement must be able to comply with all existing
regulations. The lot shall be large enough to allow for the installation of all
required utilities, including but not limited to septic tank, drainage field
and replacement drainage field. The second sewage system may not be installed
within 100 feet of any existing well and may not be located under a habitable
structure. The second unit may not be attached to the utilities of any other
unit, with the exception of a shared well. There must be a separation of 20
feet between the 2 units.
         (b)   Manufactured homes as defined by this chapter will be classified
as dwellings and/or homes or housing within the county, and any and all
ordinances or laws pertaining to dwellings, homes or housing issued or passed
by the Board of County Commissioners shall include mobile homes and
manufactured homes, except those parked within an approved manufactured home
park as defined by this chapter.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Minimum size of development: 10 acres. No lot or space may be
offered, whether occupied or not, for rent or lease, with or without financial
remuneration, outside of a manufactured home park, as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum manufactured dwelling space size.
         (a)   Connected to public water and public sewer. Each manufactured
home space shall consist of a minimum of 10,000 square feet. The minimum width
of each lot shall be established by determination of the maximum width and
length of manufactured home which can be accommodated on each individual lot
and shall be shown on the manufactured home park development plan. In no event
shall a lot be less than 45 feet in width at the location of the manufactured
dwelling stand.
         (b)   Individual well and not connected to public sewer. A
manufactured dwelling space not served by public sewer shall consist of a
minimum of 20,000 square feet or greater as determined by the County Department
of Public Health and the Director of Planning. The minimum lot width for each
space shall not be less than the maximum length of the manufactured unit to be
accommodated on the space added to the required side yard setbacks, and shall
be sufficient to provide required parking accommodations.
         (c)   Connected to public water with septic tanks. A manufactured
dwelling space not served by public sewer shall consist of a minimum of 25,000
square feet or greater as determined by the County Department of Public Health
and the Director of Planning. The minimum lot width for each space shall not be
less than the maximum length of the manufactured unit to be accommodated on the
space added to the required side yard setbacks, and shall be sufficient to
provide required parking accommodations.
         (d)   Connected to community well with septic tanks. A manufactured
dwelling space not served by public sewer shall consist of a minimum of 30,000
square feet or greater as determined by the County Department of Public Health
and the Director of Planning. The minimum lot width for each space shall not be
less than the maximum length of the manufactured unit to be accommodated on the
space added to the required side yard setbacks, and shall be sufficient to
provide required parking accommodations.
         (e)   Individual well and septic tank.  
            1.   A manufactured dwelling space not served by public sewer shall
consist of a minimum of 40,000 square feet or greater as determined by the
County Department of Public Health and the Director of Planning. The minimum
lot width for each space shall not be less than the maximum length of the
manufactured unit to be accommodated on the space added to the required side
yard setbacks, and shall be sufficient to provide required parking
accommodations.
            2.   The Planning Director and the County Department of Public
Health may, in concert and only in full agreement, reduce the minimum
manufactured dwelling space, where evidence is submitted to show, through use
of soil testing by a certified soils scientist and/or other supportable data,
that 40,000 square feet is in excess of the size required for adequate sewage
disposal and where no proposed or existing well site would be jeopardized. The
minimum lot size may be adjusted by whatever increment is judged appropriate by
the County Department of Public Health and the Planning Director. The minimum
lot size shall not be reduced below 30,000 square feet under any circumstances.
No request for a reduction of lot size will be considered unless submitted with
appropriate evidence prior to or at the time of the development plan submittal.
      (3)   Rental spaces. There shall be no less than 15 rental spaces in a
manufactured home park.
      (4)   Space definition. Each manufactured home space shall be clearly
defined by means of permanent markers such as concrete or iron pipe, placed at
all corners.
      (5)   Lot numbering. Each lot shall be clearly numbered on a permanent
monument or marker (at the intersection of the front lot line and the access
road) and must be clearly visible from the access road at all times. The lot
number shall be readily identifiable by emergency personnel and inspectors. The
lot number shall be at least 4 inches in height, and the use of script in lieu
of numeric characters in specifically prohibited. The park owner shall be
responsible for maintaining the monument or marker at all times.
      (6)   Stand. Each manufactured dwelling space shall contain a
manufactured dwelling stand, consisting of a properly graded and compacted
surface no less than square footage and dimension of the maximum sized unit
that can be placed on that space.
(Ord. 3 § 6.3, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.083 NAMING OF DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Development names shall not duplicate or closely approximate
phonetically the names of existing developments in the county.
   (B)   (1)   The use of a park name with a numeral (for example: Jones
Manufactured Home Park I and Jones Manufactured Home Park II) shall be allowed
only where the parks are contiguous.
      (2)   Separate names shall be provided for noncontiguous parks under the
same ownership.
(Ord. 3 § 6.4, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.084 NAMING OF STREETS.
   Street names shall not duplicate or closely approximate phonetically the
names of existing roads, lanes, drives or streets in the county, whether the
name is located on a private or public road, lane, drive or street. New street
names shall be subject to approval by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 3 § 6.5, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.085 IDENTIFICATION SIGN REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   A sign identifying the name and address of the development shall
be provided at the entrance of the development.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and shall not
exceed 6 feet in height. The letters and numbers must be clearly legible from
150 feet. The use of script in lieu of street numbers shall be prohibited. The
sign shall be illuminated from dusk until dawn to make the sign easily visible
at all times. No animated, flashing or moving signs shall be allowed.
   (B)   No plant materials shall be allowed to obstruct or partially obstruct
the view of the sign from the public road.
   (C)   If the sign is installed parallel to the public road, it shall be
lighted from the front. If the sign is installed perpendicular to the public
road, it shall be lighted on both sides. No lighting may be directed toward the
public road. Only indirect, nonflashing lighting shall be used for
illumination.
(Ord. 3 § 6.6, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.086 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Residential units of all types shall be located on ground with an
elevation that is not susceptible to flooding and which is graded to prevent
water from ponding or accumulating under or around the structure.
   (B)   Each lot or space shall be graded and grassed to prevent erosion and
provide adequate storm drainage away from the residential unit.
   (C)   The slope of the surface of a manufactured home stand or pad shall not
exceed 3% for the length of the manufactured unit.
   (D)   No banks, except along natural water courses, in the development shall
have a slope steeper than 1 foot rise to 4 foot run.
   (E)   All floodplain regulations shall be adhered to. Generally, no access
roads, enclosed common or storage areas, utilities, residential unit or
manufactured home space may be located in a floodplain; however, outdoor
recreation, open space or landscaping may be located within the floodplain. The
location of a manufactured home park in a flood hazard area is expressly
prohibited.
   (F)   Grading shall be limited to that which is necessary. Natural
vegetation and trees should be preserved where reasonably possible. Disruption
of natural sheet flow shall be minimized to the greatest extent possible.
(Ord. 3 § 6.7, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.087 ROADS AND DRIVES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The purpose of these requirements is to promote road safety, assure
adequate access for fire and rescue vehicles, alleviate traffic congestion and
promote adequate vehicular circulation. The manufactured home park shall have
roads and driveways that directly abut all spaces.
      (2)   The right-of-way of any new street or change in any existing street
shall be delineated on the development plan or plat with particularity, and
these streets shall be designated either public or private. Any street
designated on a development plan or plat as public shall be conclusively
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public of that street and shall
meet NCDOT standards as are required for public roads.
   (B)   Public roads.
      (1)   All public roads shall be constructed and maintained to N.C.
Department of Highways “Subdivision Roads–Minimum Construction Standards.”
Submittal for review and approval shall be in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
      (2)   Roadway alignments shall be in conformance with the county
thoroughfare plan.
       (3)   The amount of road pavement should be minimized through efficient
layout and design.
      (4)   Permanent dead-end streets or culs-de-sac shall be provided with a
turnaround of at least 60 feet in diameter.
      (5)   Streets or drives within the manufactured home park shall intersect
as nearly as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect at less
than 60 degrees. Where a street intersects a public street or road, the design
standards of the North Carolina State Highway Commission shall apply.
      (6)   The applicant must demonstrate that access from a public road to
the site is adequate, has the capacity to handle traffic generated by the
proposed project, and will not endanger the safety of the general public.
      (7)   (a)   Where property abuts a road with a U.S. or N.C. designation
and a road with a State Route number (and assigned a name for purposes of
emergency response) access to the property shall be by way of the State Route.
         (b)   Exceptions to this rule shall be instances where the Planning
Commission determines that direct access onto a road with a U.S. or N.C.
designation would promote traffic safety.
      (8)   Where 1 or more contiguous parcels are under single ownership, and
any 1 of the parcels abuts a road with a U.S. or N.C. designation and a road
with a State Route number, access to all of the parcels under single ownership
shall be by way of the road with a State Route number.
      (9)   No more than 1 direct access approach onto a road with a U.S. or
N.C. designation shall be provided to any individual parcel of record as of the
date of this chapter.
      (10)   Exceptions:
         (a)   The Planning Commission may, with approval by the State Highway
Commission, approve additional access if the additional access is deemed to be
significantly beneficial to the safety and operation of the highway, or if
allowing only 1 access approach would be a safety hazard or increase traffic
congestion; and
         (b)   The Planning Commission may approve additional access when the
parcel is bisected by steep slopes or other topographic features in such a
manner as to render some portion of the property inaccessible without
additional road access.
      (11)   Where a future roadway is designed on an approved thoroughfare
plan or county map, development plans for development adjacent to the
designated roadway shall include provisions for future access to the roadway.
      (12)   Access shall be consolidated wherever possible.
      (13)   Safe sight distance will be required at each entrance to the
development.
      (14)   All entrances to the development shall meet N.C. Department of
Highways “Policy on Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways.”
      (15)   Any public road that is extended shall be continued as a public
road.
   (C)   Private roads.
      (1)   All private roads shall be constructed and maintained to N.C.
Department of Highways “Subdivision Roads–Minimum Construction Standards,”
except:
         (a)   Interior private roads necessary for the delivery of mail, the
collection of garbage or ingress/egress for mail delivery vehicles and garbage
collection vehicles shall be paved, per DOT standards above. The pavement shall
be kept in good repair at all times; and
         (b)   Other interior roads, not necessary for the delivery of mail,
collection of garbage or ingress/egress for mail delivery vehicles and garbage
collection vehicles, do not have to be paved, and the base may be reduced to 4
inches of stabilized material, per DOT standards above. The material shall be
kept in good repair and replaced or augmented as necessary to maintain a level
and stable roadway. These roads shall be kept free of potholes and wash-
boarding. Access to each mobile home space shall be provided by streets with a
minimum right-of-way of 45 feet, of which 20 feet shall be graded and drained
for automobile circulation within the park.
      (2)   Maintenance of all private roads shall be provided by the owner or
operator of the park.
      (3)   No private road may connect 2 public roads.
      (4)   All private roads shall terminate within the development and shall
not connect to other private or public roads on adjoining properties.
      (5)   All streets in the manufactured home park shall be adequately
illuminated from sunset until sunrise. The minimum size street light shall be a
175 watt mercury-vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen class) or its equivalent,
spaced at intervals of not more than 300 feet.
(Ord. 3 § 6.8, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.088 ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All entrances to the development shall be a minimum of 300 feet from
the intersection of 2 public streets. If a manufactured home park has more than
1 direct access to a public street, the access points shall be a minimum of 200
feet apart.
   (B)   No space shall have direct access to a public street.
   (C)   All spaces shall abut a private street contained within the park.
   (D)   Adequate access shall be provided to each space, with a minimum
driveway width of 20 feet unless more is deemed necessary because of
topographical conditions or street curvature.
(Ord. 3 § 6.9, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.089 SETBACKS.
   (A)   All sewage facilities shall be located 100 feet from any existing
well.
   (B)   (1)   All structures shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from all
public road rights-of-way and property lines.
      (2)   A vegetative buffer area of a minimum of 50 feet from all public
road rights-of-way and property lines shall be maintained. This area shall be
left in its natural state, provided that the existing vegetation serves the
purpose of providing a visual screen or visual buffer and of providing a
physical separation of uses. The property shall not be graded, cleared or
otherwise changed until the preliminary development plan has been approved and
an evaluation made of the existing vegetation. Mature trees within this area
may not be removed until this evaluation has occurred. If the property has been
clear-cut, graded, cleared or otherwise changed prior to land acquisition, the
vegetative buffer shall be replanted and shall contain a combination of fences,
walls, earthen berms and landscaping to serve that purpose of providing a
visual screen or visual buffer and a physical separation of uses. The developer
shall include existing mature trees and natural plant materials in the design
of the buffer area to the greatest extent feasible.
   (C)   No portion of a dwelling unit or group of attached dwelling units or
roofed attachments may encroach within 10 feet on each side of its assigned
space or lot and 10 feet from the rear line of the assigned space or lot. The
intent is that there shall be a minimum clearance of 20 feet between each
dwelling unit or attached group of dwelling units, measured from the outmost
point of roofed surface of the unit or any attachments.
   (D)   There shall be a minimum front setback for each unit from the interior
street of 20 feet.
(Ord. 3 § 6.10, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.090 PARKING.
   (A)   Parking and parking lots; purpose. The purpose of this section is to
provide for adequate parking for residential developments and to maintain all
roadways and entrances free of impediments to traffic. All parking areas shall
be designed for pedestrian safety.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   All parking areas shall be landscaped. There shall be no large
expanses of concrete;
      (2)   No required parking shall be allowed on public roads or entrances.
No required parking shall be allowed on private roads, except where additional
width has been provided expressly for this purpose;
      (3)   The site owner shall not allow the parking of abandoned or disabled
vehicles in the development;
      (4)   If boats, trailers or other recreation or storage vehicles are
allowed in the manufactured home park, the park owner shall provide additional
parking facilities on each space or shall provide a separate storage area for
these items. Boats, trailers or other recreational or storage vehicles shall
not be stored or parked on public roads, private roads, entrances or required
parking spaces or vacant manufactured home space. These items may not be stored
or parked on an occupied manufactured home space, unless a specific storage/
parking area has been specified for that space on the development plans.
Parking or storage of these items shall not be located on septic tanks, septic
tank drainage fields, or be located in proximity to any wells. Additionally,
parking or storage shall not require passage over septic tanks or septic tank
drainage fields;
      (5)   All parking spaces shall be located such that headlights are not
directed at the pubic road. Any spaces that must be located such that
headlights are directed at the road shall be screened by a combination of
walls, fences, earthen berms and landscaping to prevent the intrusion of the
headlights into the public road;
      (6)   At least 10% of all parking lot areas where more than 12 parking
spaces are provided shall be landscaped. This may be waived by the Planning
Commission;
      (7)   To avoid large expanses of paved parking area, the following
provisions, which may be waived by the Planning Commission, shall apply:
         (a)   No more than 12 parking spaces will be permitted in a continuous
row and the break between rows (the island) must be landscaped;
         (b)   The ends of parking rows and landscaped islands shall be a
minimum of 6 feet wide and shall be adequately landscaped with shade trees,
ground cover, and shrubs; and
         (c)   Double rows of parking shall be separated by a minimum 6-foot
planting strip adequately landscaped with shade trees and shrubs.
      (8)   Parking area design shall include provision for the physically
handicapped as required under state standards;
      (9)   All lighting in parking areas shall be arranged to prevent direct
glare of illumination onto adjacent properties; and
      (10)   Off-street parking areas and driveways, exclusive of required
landscaping, shall be surfaced with materials approved by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   10,000-square-foot manufactured home spaces. Each residential dwelling
unit within a development:
      (1)   Shall be provided 3 parking spaces, each 9 feet by 19 feet, for the
exclusive use of that unit and its visitors on each manufactured home space;
      (2)   Shall be provided 2 parking spaces for the exclusive use of the
unit, where additional visitor parking is supplied by widening the roadway
width to allow parking on 1 or both sides of the private road; or
      (3)   Shall be provided 3 spaces in a common parking area.
   (D)   Other size manufactured home spaces. Each residential dwelling unit
within a development shall be provided 3 parking spaces, each 9 feet by 19
feet, for the exclusive use of that unit and its visitors on each manufactured
home space.
(Ord. 3 § 6.11 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Landscaping is required to promote attractive development, to protect
and preserve water quality, the appearance and character of the surrounding
area, and to delineate and define vehicular and pedestrian passageways and open
space within the development.
   (B)   Landscaping shall be provided throughout the development with ample
trees and shrubs, in addition to groundcover, to provide shade and break up
open areas. The developer shall include existing mature trees and natural plant
materials in the design of the site to the greatest extent feasible. The
preservation of native and existing plant materials is a cost-effective method
of providing the required landscaping. All banks and open areas shall be
grassed. The planting of new materials may be waived or modified by the
Planning Commission where natural features, topography and natural vegetation
serve the same purpose.
   (C)   (1)   A vegetative buffer area of a minimum of 50 feet from all public
road rights-of-way and property lines shall be maintained.
      (2)   This area shall be left in its natural state, provided that the
existing vegetation serves the purpose of providing a visual screen or visual
buffer and a physical separation of uses.
      (3)   The property shall not be graded, cleared or otherwise changed
until the preliminary development plan has been approved and an evaluation made
of the existing vegetation.
      (4)   Mature trees within this area may not be removed until this
evaluation has occurred.
      (5)   The developer shall include existing mature trees and natural plant
materials in the design of the buffer area to the greatest extent feasible.
   (D)   If the property has been clear-cut, graded, cleared or otherwise
changed prior to land acquisition, the vegetative buffer shall be replanted and
shall contain a combination of fences, walls, earthen berms and landscaping to
serve the purpose of providing a visual screen or visual buffer and providing a
physical separation of uses.
      (1)   All plant material installed shall be healthy and of the best
quality.
      (2)   All plant material installed shall be balled and burlap-covered or
container-grown.
      (3)   All trees shall be a minimum 1-1/2 inch caliper at breast height (5
feet) at installation.
      (4)   All dead or damaged plant materials shall be replaced for a 1-year
period.
(Ord. 3 § 6.12, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.092 INSTALLATION, ALTERATION AND USE OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   General.  The installation, alteration or use of all utilities,
including but not limited to electrical service, plumbing fixtures and sewage
disposal systems, shall conform to all applicable codes.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   The park owner or his or her designee shall not allow the
connection of any manufactured home to the utilities of any other manufactured
home.
      (2)   The park shall provide individual utility connections for each
designated lot within the park.
      (3)   All utilities shall be installed underground except where extreme
conditions of topography make this requirement unreasonable.
      (4)   Placement of utilities serving the manufactured home stand shall
comply with the N.C. Building Code.
      (5)   Minimum electrical service of 200 ampere, 120–240-volt single phase
shall be provided to each manufactured dwelling stand. The service panel and
location as well as all wiring shall be in accordance with the National
Electrical Code.
      (6)   Each manufactured dwelling shall be required to connect to the
utilities provided at each manufactured dwelling space.
      (7)   Each manufactured home located within a park shall comply with the
current state regulations in both manufacture and installation, and must be
inspected to assure compliance prior to occupancy.
(Ord. 3 § 6.13 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.093 WATER.
   (A)   General. There shall be a safe, adequate, continuous and conveniently
located potable water supply provided for each development in compliance with
applicable regulations. The water supply and pressure shall be adequate for the
development’s requirements. Water for drinking, cooking, laundry, and general
sanitary uses for each individual manufactured dwelling shall be obtained only
from faucets or other plumbing connections located within each dwelling unit.
Where a municipal water supply is available, connection shall be made thereto
and its supply used exclusively. When a municipal water supply is not
available, a community water supply shall be developed, and its supply used
exclusively in accordance with the standards of Department of Environment,
Health and Natural Resources.
   (B)   Specifics.
      (1)   If the development is to be located within 300 feet of a public
water system, the developer is encouraged to connect to the system. A
certification shall be provided that the public water system will provide water
to the development. Fire hydrants shall be installed in any development hooking
to a public water system.
      (2)   If the development is not within 300 feet of a public water system
or the developer does not connect to the public water system, a private water
system shall be installed, inspected, tested and approved by the County Public
Health Department or the state. Dry hydrants may be required in areas near
large bodies of water to facilitate fire protection to the development.
      (3)   Calculations showing the maximum capacity of the water system shall
be submitted along with calculations showing the maximum daily water usage of
the development.
      (4)   The construction of the project may be phased, with future phases
being constructed as additional water becomes available. No phase shall include
less than 15 spaces. No construction phase may begin until an assured water
supply has been determined.
      (5)   An emergency water supply plan shall be submitted where the
development is not connected to a public water supply.
      (6)   The issuance of manufactured home permits for a manufactured home
park shall be suspended where the water system or any component has failed,
until the time as the system is restored to full function. Where the water
system has more than 1 component and 1 or more components fails, leaving
occupied spaces with no water, the park owner shall, at his or her expense,
move any existing manufactured unit to alternate spaces within the park with a
functioning water system.
      (7)   Where wells are used for water supply purposes, every reasonable
precaution shall be taken to prevent possible contamination of the well. Areas
within 100 feet of a water supply well shall not be used for septic tank
drainage fields, replacement drainage fields, stormwater runoff detention,
storage of toxic or hazardous materials, garbage collection or other uses that
are deemed as a potential risk to the water supply. Grading and drainage shall
be evaluated for positive slope, and other potential risk to the water supply.
      (8)   All public toilet, shower, lavatory, faucets, drinking fountains
and laundry facilities must be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and be
kept in good repair and working order at all times. They shall be safely and
adequately lighted. Facilities shall be easily accessible to all persons,
including handicapped persons, and shall be conveniently located. Areas around
outdoor faucets or drinking fountains shall be properly drained.
(Ord. 3 § 6.14 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.094 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each development shall be provided with an adequate sewage disposal
system, either by connection to a public sewer, a private sewage system
(collection systems and sewage treatment plants complying with the requirements
of the N.C. Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources should be
provided), or a septic tank system constructed in compliance with the
regulations of the County Board of Health and the State of North Carolina.
Individual septic tank systems will be considered if soil, topography and
ground water conditions are favorable.
   (B)   In accordance with County Health Department regulations, all sewage
waste from toilets, showers, bathtubs, lavatories, wash basins, refrigerator
drains, sinks, faucets, and water-using appliances not herein mentioned shall
be piped into the development’s approved sewage disposal system.
      (1)   If the development is to be located within 300 feet of a public
sewage system, the developer is encouraged to connect to the system. A
certification shall be provided that the public sewage system will allow
connection and provide service to the development.
      (2)   If the development is not within 300 feet of a public sewage
system, or if the developer does not connect to the public sewage system, a
private sewage system or septic tank system shall be installed, inspected,
tested and approved by the County Public Health Department or the state.
      (3)   Calculations showing the maximum capacity of the sewage system
shall be submitted along with calculations showing the maximum daily effluent
generated by the development.
      (4)   The construction of the project may be phased, with future phases
being constructed as additional waste disposal becomes available. No phase
shall include less than 15 spaces. No construction phase may begin until an
approved waste disposal system has been determined.
      (5)   Private sewage systems, septic tank systems, drainage fields and
replacement drainage fields shall be located 100 feet from all existing wells.
No underground utilities, roads, recreation areas or structures shall be
located in a drainage field or replacement drainage fields.
      (6)   All public toilet, shower, lavatory, faucets, drinking fountains
and laundry facilities must be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and be
kept in good repair and working order at all times. They shall be safely and
adequately lighted. Facilities shall be easily accessible to all persons,
including handicapped persons, and shall be conveniently located.
      (7)   The issuance of manufactured home permits for a manufactured home
park shall be suspended where the sewage disposal system or any component has
failed, until such time as the system is restored to full function. Where the
sewage disposal system has more than 1 component and 1 or more components
fails, leaving occupied spaces with no sewage waste disposal, the park owner,
at his or her expense, shall move any existing manufactured unit to alternate
spaces within the park with a functioning sewage system.
      (8)   If the development makes use of septic tanks for sewage waste
disposal, the system shall be pumped on a regular basis to assure effective
operation. The development may be required to pump more frequently where
problems have occurred, to assure continued effective operation. The developer
shall submit a proposed maintenance schedule for the development.
      (9)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer pipe, such as
capping or installation of a rubber boot with a compression band, when a mobile
home does not occupy a space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the
rise. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least 4 inches above ground
elevation.
(Ord. 3 § 6.15 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.095 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The development owner shall provide commercial solid waste disposal
for all residents of the development, and the responsibility of disposal shall
not be assigned by the owner to individual tenants.
   (B)   The storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the
manufactured home park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards,
rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, safety or fire hazards, or pollution.
      (1)   Collection areas shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at
all times.
      (2)   All refuse and garbage shall be disposed of in containers provided.
      (3)   Large items such as appliances and furniture shall not be allowed
at dumpster sites or elsewhere on the site.
      (4)   The development shall provide solid waste dumpsters for disposal of
solid waste. The number, the size and placement of the dumpsters shall be
determined by calculations submitted, showing the basis for determining the
number of dumpsters, size of dumpsters and the frequency of pickup. The
location of the dumpsters shall be convenient and accessible by all tenants.
      (5)   All dumpsters shall be located on an appropriately sized concrete
pad, typically 10 feet by 17 feet with a concrete approach apron. All dumpster
areas shall be screened from view by residents and public by combinations of
fencing, walls and landscaping. No dumpster site shall be located on a
manufactured home space.
      (6)   Solid waste disposal sites shall be located so that the container
can be emptied by a solid waste truck without backing onto any public street.
Sufficient turning radius must be provided for the solid waste truck to exit
the park without backing up, typically not less than 50 feet.
      (7)   All internal or private roads necessary for the collection of solid
waste must be paved in accordance with NCDOT standards for public roads.
      (8)   Manufactured home parks or small residential site development with
4 units or less may provide individual waste container pickup for individual
units, provided that:
         (a)   The development owner shall provide commercial solid waste
disposal for all residents of the development and the responsibility of
disposal shall not be assigned by the owner to individual tenants. The
manufactured home park management shall be responsible for the proper storage,
collection and disposal of solid waste;
         (b)   The site owner or the commercial solid waste contractor shall
provide and maintain all waste containers;
         (c)   All streets used for collection within the development are paved
to NCDOT standards; and
          (d)   The size of containers and frequency of pickup shall be
submitted for approval.
(Ord. 3 § 6.16, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL MEASURES.
   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard the public health and
comfort shall be practiced for all uses, structures and areas of the
development.
(Ord. 3 § 6.17, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.097 RESIDENTIAL FENCING AND WALLS.
   Except as otherwise noted in this chapter, fences or yard walls are
permitted subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Rear yard fencing and walls may be constructed to a maximum height of
6 feet from the following materials: wood, brick, stone, wrought iron, stucco,
chain link or combinations of the preceding;
   (B)   Side and front yard fencing may be constructed to a maximum height of
6 feet from the following materials: wood, brick, stone, wrought iron, stucco,
chain link or combinations of the preceding;
   (C)   Barbed wire, razor wire or concertina wire is specifically not
permitted; and
   (D)   No fencing or walls shall be allowed in the road right-of-way or in
areas required for safe sight distance.
(Ord. 3 § 6.18, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.098 ANIMAL CONTROL; SITE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If pets are allowed, the site owner shall establish regulations to
ensure adequate control of animals and disposal of animal wastes. Animal wastes
shall be disposed of so as to maintain a safe and sanitary environment for all
residents.
   (B)   If pets are allowed, the site owner shall provide a pet walking/
sanitary site with a minimum of 1,200 square feet per 50 dwelling units or
spaces. There shall be a minimum of 1 lot per development, The site owner shall
be responsible for maintaining this area in a safe and sanitary manner.
(Ord. 3 § 6.19 passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.099 RECREATIONAL AREAS AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS FOR 10,000-SQUARE-FOOT
LOTS.
   The site owner shall establish and maintain a safe and sanitary recreational
environment for all residents.
   (A)   (1)   A play lot for preschool children containing a minimum of 1,200
square feet shall be provided within 500 feet of every dwelling.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum of 1 lot per development.
   (B)   (1)   One or more passive or active recreational area(s) for school-
age children and adults, containing a minimum of 1 acre per 100 dwelling units
or spaces shall be provided.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum of 1 lot per development.
   (C)   These recreational areas shall not be in an area utilized for any
sewage system or part of a sewage system thereof.
(Ord. 3 § 6.20, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.100 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every mobile home park manufactured home park owner or operator shall
maintain an accurate register containing a record of all lessees of mobile home
spaces in the park.
   (B)   The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and space number of each lessee;
      (2)   The date the manufactured dwelling entered the park; and
      (3)   The license number of manufactured dwelling unit, recreational
vehicle, car or truck with the state of issuance, make and type of vehicle.
   (C)   The owner or his or her designee shall keep the register available at
all times for inspection by the Enforcement Officer, public health officials
and other officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information
contained in the register.
(Ord. 3 § 6.21, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.101 PARK MANAGER OR OWNER QUARTERS.
   (A)   (1)   One single-family dwelling may be located within the park for
the exclusive use of the park manager or owner.
      (2)   The dwelling shall be located in an area designated on the
development plan, shall be placed on a lot appropriate for the dwelling and
must be approved with the development plan.
      (3)   A manufactured home space may not be used for this purpose.
   (B)   A manager or owner may reside in a manufactured home unit on a
manufactured home space, provided the unit does not exceed the maximum size
designated for that space.
(Ord. 3 § 6.22, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.115 PROCEDURES; GENERAL.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall provide for the manner in
which the provisions of this chapter shall be determined, established and
enforced, and amended, supplemented or changed.
   (B)   A Board within this context shall mean any board, commission or agency
empowered therein.
(Ord. 3 § 7.1.1, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.116 NOTICE.
   (A)   Rezoning, variance, or watershed waiver. Whenever there is a request
for a zoning map amendment, conditional use permit, variance or watershed
waiver involving a parcel of land, the owner of that parcel as shown on the
county tax listing, and the owners of all parcels of land adjoining and
contiguous to that parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing, shall be
mailed a notice of the proposed request.
      (1)   Notice shall be by first-class mail to the last address listed for
the owners on the county tax abstracts. This must be deposited in the mail at
least 10 but not more than 25 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      (2)   The person or persons mailing the notice shall certify to the Board
of County Commissioners that proper notice has been given, and this
certification shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (3)   (a)   1.   The first-class notice required under division (A)(1)
above shall not be required if the zoning map amendment directly affects more
than 50 properties, owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners,
and the county elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this
subsection.
            2.   In this instance, the county may either elect to make the
mailed notice provided for in division (A)(1) above, or may as an alternative
elect to publish once a week for 4 successive calendar weeks in a newspaper
having general circulation in the area affected by the proposed zoning map
amendment and explains the nature of the change. The final 2 advertisements
shall comply with and be deemed to satisfy the provisions of G.S. § 153A-323.
The advertisement shall not be less than 1/2 of a newspaper page in size.
            3.   The advertisement shall only be effective for property owners
who reside in the area of general circulation of the newspaper which publishes
the notice. Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper circulation
area, according to the address listed on the most recent property tax listing
for the affected property, shall be notified by first-class mail pursuant to
this section. The person(s) mailing the notice shall certify to the Board of
Commissioners that fact, and the certificates shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud.
         (b)   In addition to the published notice, a county shall post 1 or
more prominent signs on or immediately adjacent to the subject area reasonably
calculated to give the public notice of the proposed rezoning.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any
zoning map adoption that initially zones property added to the territorial
coverage of the chapter.
      (5)   Notice of the proposed action shall also be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in accordance with North Carolina General
Statutes.
      (6)   Each site shall be posted in a conspicuous location(s) with the
time, date and notice of
public hearing. Posting shall not be required in the case of comprehensive
zoning.
   (B)   Text amendment and appeal. Whenever there is a request for an action
involving a text amendment to this chapter or an appeal of an interpretation of
this chapter; the notice of the proposed action shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in accordance with North Carolina State
Statutes.
   (C)   Board approval of subdivision or site development plan. Whenever there
is a request for an action involving a Board approval under this chapter, the
meeting of the designated Board shall have an agenda duly posted in accordance
with G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq., the North Carolina Open Meetings Statutes.
(Ord. 3 § 7.1.2, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.117 ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall require that each of the Boards provided
for by this chapter adopt rules and maintain records.
   (A)   Rules of conduct. Each Board shall adopt rules necessary to conduct
its affairs and to establish Board organization, committees, procedures,
meeting notice and meeting conduct.
   (B)   Conformance of rules.  The rules adopted by the Board shall be in
conformance with state law and the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Election and terms of officers. Unless otherwise provided by this
chapter, a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by
members of the Board to serve a 1-year term. The Secretary does not have to be
a member of the Board.
   (D)   Record of meetings.
      (1)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicate
that fact.
      (2)   The Board shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. All these records and minutes shall be public record.
(Ord. 3 § 7.1.3, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.118 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   (A)   Inclusion of alternates. The Board of Commissioners may appoint
alternate members to serve in the absence of regular members.
   (B)   Powers and duties. Each alternate member, attending a meeting of the
Board and serving in the absence of a regular member, has and may exercise all
the powers and duties of a regular member.
(Ord. 3 § 7.1.4, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.119 TERMS.
   (A)   Length of term.
      (1)   Members and alternate members of the Board shall serve a term of 3
years, provided that upon initial appointment the terms of office may be
staggered.
      (2)   The terms of all Board members shall not expire at the same time.
   (B)   Maximum executive terms.  Regular members shall not serve more than 2
consecutive terms.
   (C)   Filling of vacancies.  
      (1)   A new member or an alternate may be appointed to fill the unexpired
term of the member so vacating.
      (2)   Members filling vacancies shall serve for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 3 § 7.1.5, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.120 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation, if any, for Board members may be provided by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 3 § 7.1.6, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.121 TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. A Technical Review Committee is hereby established for
the purpose of reviewing development plans and for forwarding a recommendation
to the Planning Board for approval or denial based on its findings. The
Technical Review Committee shall meet on a regular basis.
      (1)   The Technical Review Committee shall consist of: the Planning
Director; Economic Development Director; Floodplain Administrator; Watershed
Administrator; Public Health Director; Chief Building Official; Emergency
Management Services Director; Soil and Water Conservation Director; Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Administrator; County Sheriff; and Chief Fire Official.
      (2)   Each member may select an alternate from that member’s staff.
   (B)   Officers. The Planning Director shall serve as Chairperson to the
Technical Review Committee and shall provide a recording secretary for the
purpose of maintaining permanent records of its proceedings.
   (C)   Powers and duties.  
      (1)   The Technical Review Committee shall have the following powers and
duties:
         (a)   To provide for a continuing, coordinated and comprehensive
review of the technical aspects of this chapter, and for the approval of
certain technical aspects of development proposals;
         (b)   To review all technical aspects of development occurring with
the jurisdiction of the county;
         (c)   To recommend approval or denial of development plans to the
Planning Board based on a technical review;
         (d)   To formulate a memorandum of understanding for each development
which details the cumulative comments and deficiencies discovered during the
review process from each member. It will also contain any agreements reached
with the developer;
         (e)   Communicate with the developer to notify of the time, date and
place of the meeting at which his or her development will be reviewed, and to
transmit a copy of the Committee’s memorandum of understanding to the
developer;
         (f)   To recommend to the Planning Board the closing of streets,
alleys, easements and other rights-of-way; and
         (g)   To perform any other related duties that the Board of County
Commissioners may direct.
      (2)   (a)   Each individual shall be responsible for the review of those
items of the development plan which pertain to their area of expertise.
         (b)   Comments shall be placed in writing and submitted to the
Chairperson at the meeting.
(Ord. 3 § 7.3, passed 9-14-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Board, see §§
150.20 et seq.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.135 AUTHORITY.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-388.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.1, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.136 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Number of members. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of at least 5
members and may have alternates as appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, determination, or interpretation made by an administrative official
charged with enforcing this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide any exceptions which are specifically delegated
to it by this chapter;
      (3)   To determine and vary application of zoning regulations in harmony
with their general purpose and intent and in accordance with general and
specific rules contained herein;
      (4)   To hear and decide appeals for variances from the zoning provisions
of this chapter in cases where special conditions would make strict and literal
interpretation and enforcement of the zoning provisions of this chapter result
in a loss of privileges shared by other properties within the same zoning
district;
      (5)   To interpret zoning maps and pass upon disputed questions of
district boundary lines and similar questions that may occur in the
administration of this chapter; and
      (6)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.2, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.137 VOTING.
   (A)   Required vote for approval. A 4/5 vote of its members shall be
required to:
      (1)   Affirm or reverse any order, wholly or partially; modify a
requirement, decision, determination or interpretation of an administrative
officer charged with enforcing this chapter;
      (2)   Decide in favor of the applicant on a matter upon which the Board
is required to pass under this chapter; or
      (3)   Grant a variance from the provisions of the chapter.
   (B)   Vote of the Chairperson. The Board Chairperson shall vote as any other
Board member.
   (C)   Delay of decision.  The Board may, at its discretion, direct that its
decision be delayed to a date and time specific subsequent to the Board’s vote
on an appeal.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.3, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.138 COURT REVIEW.
   (A)   Appeal to Superior Court. Each decision of the Board shall be subject
to Superior Court review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
   (B)   Timing of appeal.
      (1)   Any petition for review by the Superior Court shall be filed with
the Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the decision by the Board is
filed in the Planning or Building Inspections Department; or
      (2)   After a written copy thereof is delivered to every aggrieved party
who has filed a written request for a copy with the Secretary or Chairperson of
the Board at the time of its hearing of the case, whichever is later.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.4, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.139 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   The decision of the Board may be delivered to the aggrieved party either by
personal service or by registered mail, return receipt requested.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.5, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.140 OATHS.
   The Chairperson of the Board or any member temporarily acting as Chairperson
shall administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming before the Board.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.6, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.141 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   Appeal eligibility. Any person aggrieved or any officer, department,
board or bureau of the jurisdiction may make an appeal.
      (1)   Appeals shall be made within the time prescribed by the Board of
Adjustment by general rule, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and with the Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
      (2)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all papers constituting the record from which the action was
taken.
   (B)   Effect of appeal. An appeal stays all proceeding in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her,
that because of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the officer’s
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, or that, because the
violation charged is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere
with enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Effect of certification. If certification occurs in accordance with
division (B) of this section, the proceeding may not be stayed except by a
restraining order, which may be granted by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Notice of the restraining order shall be given in writing to the officer from
whom the appeal is taken.
   (D)   Notice of hearing. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
the appeal, give due notice of the appeal to the parties, and decide the appeal
within a reasonable time.
   (E)   Action of Board. The Board may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination or
interpretation appealed from, and shall make any order, requirement, decision,
determination or interpretation that in the Board’s opinion ought to be made
under the circumstances.
   (F)   Conditions rehearing. The Board shall not be required to hear an
appeal or application previously denied if it finds that there has been no
substantial change in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.7, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 152.142 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Application. An application for a variance shall be submitted in
writing to the Board by filing a copy of the completed application with the
Planning Director. The applicant has the burden of proving unnecessary
hardship. The proof must be compelling and reasons for granting the variance
must be substantial. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors also do not qualify.
The hardship that the applicant must prove must be measured against the
community’s need for strictly enforced regulations that protect its citizens.
Evidence supporting the request for a variance shall be submitted at the time
of the application for the variance.
   (B)   Procedure. The Board shall:
      (1)   Fix a reasonable time for holding a public hearing on the variance
request;
      (2)   Give notice of the variance request as prescribed in §
152.116; and
      (3)   Decide the variance request within a reasonable time.
   (C)   Grounds for a variance.
      (1)   The Board shall make findings of fact that the requirements of
division (D) below have been met by the applicant.
      (2)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure.
      (3)   The Board shall not, under any circumstances, grant a variance to
permit a use or density not otherwise permitted by this chapter in the zoning
district involved.
      (4)   Neither the nonconforming use of lands, buildings or structures in
the same zoning district, nor the permitted use of lands, buildings or
structures in other zoning districts shall be considered as grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
   (D)   Granting of variance. A variance may be granted by the Board if
evidence presented by the applicant persuades it to reach the following
conclusions:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships that
would result from the strict enforcement of this chapter. The Board may reach
this conclusion if it finds that:
         (a)   If the applicant complies with the provisions of this chapter,
he or she can make no reasonable use of his or her property;
         (b)   The hardship of which the applicant complains results from
unique circumstances related to the applicant’s property;
         (c)   The hardship relates to the applicant’s property, rather than
personal circumstances; and
         (d)   The hardship is not the result of the applicant’s own actions.
      (2)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and preserves the spirit of this chapter; or
      (3)   The granting of the variance assures the public safety and welfare
and does substantial justice.
   (E)   Conditions. In granting a variance, the Board may prescribe reasonable
and appropriate conditions and safeguards as will assure that the use of the
property to which the variance applies will be compatible with surrounding
properties and will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood.
      (1)   Violations of the conditions and safeguards, when a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   A variance granted subject to a condition shall be permitted only
so long as there is compliance with the condition.
      (3)   If a violation of a variance occurs, the Enforcement Officer may
revoke the certificate of occupancy.
      (4)   In the event that any condition is held invalid, for any reason,
the holding shall have the effect of invalidating the variance granted and
shall render the variance null and void.
   (F)   Duration. The variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or for
a specified duration only. Unless otherwise specified, construction or
operation shall be commenced within 12 months of the date of issuance of a
variance, or the variance shall become void.
(Ord. 3 § 7.4.8, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more that $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
   (B)   Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 3 § 2.8, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions; Legal Status
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.21   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
153.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.23   Corrective procedures
   
153.24   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reductions
   
153.35   General standards
   
153.36   Specific standards
   
153.37   Reserved
   
153.38   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
153.39   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE, but without established
floodways of non-encroachment areas
   
153.40   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
153.41   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
   
153.42   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH)
 
   
153.98   Severability
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; LEGAL STATUS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Part 6,
Article 21 of Chapter 143; Parts 3 and 4 of Article 18 of Chapter 153A; and
Article 6 of Chapter 153A delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of County Commissioners of Vance County, North
Carolina does ordain as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 29, Art 1, § A, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Vance County are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. 29, Art. 1, § B, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 29, Art. 1, § C, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area;
   (H)   To minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (I)   To make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program; and
   (J)   To maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains.
(Ord. 29, Art. 1, § D, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (to an existing building). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from 1 to 3
feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps. and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined by G.S. 130A-290(a)(6)), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING and EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the "start of construction" commenced before date the community entered
into the National Floodplain Insurance Program.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community (September 2, 1997).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs).
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations. For Vance County this shall be the
Director of the Planning and Development Department or his or her designee.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and models.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The Base Flood Elevation plus the freeboard
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. As defined in G.S. 130, Article 9, a facility for
the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or
disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program (CLG Programs are approved by the US Department of the Interior
in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources through
the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in 1980).
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program Map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property or structure is not
located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOGGING. The practice of felling, trimming, and transporting trees for
commercial and/or private use. LOGGING practices shall include silviculture
activities. When applicable, LOGGING operations shall comply with North
Carolina regulations on buffer requirements as outlined by the Division of
Forestry Services and Division of Water Quality regarding this practice in the
Roanoke River and Tar-Pamilco River Basins.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carry the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the
NC FRIS website (http://Fris.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOOD.NC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal: replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value): or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
(September 2, 1997) for that site and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot as
designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map for the site (initial FIRM for Vance County - Unincorporated
Area is July 16, 1991).
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map for the site (initial FIRM for Vance County - Unincorporated Area is
July 16, 1991).
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor or the bottom of the lowest
attendant utility, whichever is lower, for structures within special flood
hazard areas designated as Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99 or AO. The reference level is
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The Base Flood Elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus 3 feet of freeboard.
In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least 3 feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SILVICULTURAL ACTIVITIES. All forest management activities, including
logging, log transport, and forest roads (EPA interpretation).
   SILVICULTURAL SYSTEM. The process of tending, harvesting, and replacing
forest trees, which results in the production of forests with distinct
compositions. Systems are classified according to the method of harvest cutting
used for stand reproduction.
   SILVICULTURE. The art, science, and practice of establishing, tending, and
reproducing forest stands of desired characteristics.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35), any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(36), any place at
which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
153.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within on 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of substantial
improvement. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on 2 separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of
repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any 1-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement.
This term includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling  system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
153.20 through
153.24 and
153.35 through
153.41 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 29, Art. 2, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Am. Ord. passed
10-7-2019)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, excluding the City of Henderson and its Extra-Territorial
Jurisdictions (ETJ), of Vance County and within the jurisdiction of any other
community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3. § A, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina
and FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated December 6, 2019 for Vance
County and associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data developed as
part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter.
   (B)   The area surrounding Kerr-Lake, established and managed by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers (also known as Corps Property), includes a 320 foot
elevation established by U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (also known as the 320
line). This elevation is not under the jurisdiction of Vance County to modify.
Property located outside the 320 line and not located in the special flood
hazard areas identified in this chapter shall not be required to elevate
construction. Only properties located inside the Special Flood Hazard Area are
required to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Flood insurance is not a requirement by Vance County for property
owners to purchase. It is recommended, however, as further protection for
construction in the identified flood hazard areas. Mortgage companies-banks may
require flood insurance to be purchased, but this applies only to properties
located inside the special flood hazard area as identified in this chapter.
   (D)   In relation to new construction and logging operations in Vance
County, for the Roanoke River Basin and Tar Pamlico River Basin (in Vance
County), new construction and logging operations shall comply with all local,
state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § B, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Am. Ord.
passed 10-7-2019)  
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.07.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § C, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § D, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § E, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § F, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of Vance County or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § G, passed 4-2-2007)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.20 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of the Planning and Development Department or his or her
designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter. In
instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance from others to
complete tasks to administer and implement this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination and community's overall
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program and the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 29, Art. 4, § A, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.21 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRMor other flood map as determined in §
153.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
153.07;
         (e)   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
153.07, §
153.22, or §
153.38;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer (this is a normal requirement for subdivision of
property in Vance County), however when the site/property is located in a
floodplain then a floodplain certification block is required to be included on
the plot plan (as illustrated below, for use when lots are located in a special
flood hazard area):
Floodplain Determination:
Lot (s) __________ is (are) located in a federally identified Special Flood
Hazard Area as depicted on this plat. Individual site plan approval is required
for any lot located within or partially within a special flood hazard area
prior to the issuance of any permits. The identified lot (s) is (are) located
in a special flood hazard area with an identified Base Flood Elevation (BFE) of
_________ feet, all finished floors shall be constructed at least 3 feet above
this identified BFE.
The location of a structure within the special flood hazard area shall require
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program under the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), special provisions of the North Carolina
Building Code and the Vance County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance #29.
The location of wells or septic systems, the placement of fill, storage of
hazardous materials, or the construction of solid fencing or walls within the
flood hazard area shall not be permitted within a flood hazard area.
________________________________________________________________________
Floodplain Administrator      Date
      (2)   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
153.36(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, CAMA, riparian buffers, mining, etc.)
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
153.36(F) and (G) are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with the available data specified in §
153.07.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
153.40 have been met.
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30.
      (8)   Limitations of use, i.e., parking, building access and limited
storage only, of the enclosures below the lowest floor (if applicable.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. A final finished construction
floodproofing certficate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an
operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of
the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified
design shall be cause to deny a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.36(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items (a) and (b) of this subsection:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
153.36(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
153.36(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
153.36(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structure, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this chapter is required.
(Ord. 29, Art. 4, § B, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Advise permittee if additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, CAMA, riparian buffers,
mining, Roanoke and Tar Pamlico River Basin Rules, etc.) are required, and
assure that copies of such permits are provided and maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.40 are met.
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
153.21(C).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
153.21.
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
153.21(C).
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.21(C) and §
153.36(B).
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter.
   (K)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
153.21, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
data available from a federal, state, or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
153.38(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
153.21, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being carried out according to the provisions of the local ordinance
and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain
Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (P)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
153.23.
   (S)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
153.07, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change, issued
by FEMA. Notify State and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (U)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMR).
(Ord. 29, Art. 4, § C, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.23 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the notice,
at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than 60
calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property,
they may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be
feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within 10 days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 29, Art. 4, § D, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.24 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners or Planning Board as established by Vance
County, hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
153.05 of this chapter provided provisions of §
153.24(I)(2), (3) and (5) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety.
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
153.06 as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the Base Flood Elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the Base Flood
Elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   Vance County has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a
variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. 29, Art. 4, § E, passed 4-2-2007)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
§ 153.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or designed and installed so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during the
occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC
equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas
meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water heaters, and electric
outlets/switches.
      (a)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (b)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
153.24(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to the provisions of §
153.21(C).
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (O)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. 29 Art. 5, § A, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
153.38, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Structures located in A, AE, AH, AO, and
A99 Zones may be floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in
lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the structure, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood
protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO
Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with §
153.40. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
153.21(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation systems or in accordance with the current
edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes,
adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to NCGS 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
153.36(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed areas of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which are below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria;
         (a)   A minimum of 2 flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least 1
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than 1 enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than 1 foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during one year period,
the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with the
standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one- year
period begins on the permit issuance date for the improvement or repair of the
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure
has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structures continued designation as a historic
structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement.
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (Recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions).
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval;
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should not exceed 3 months, renewable up to 1 year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   (1)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.35(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.35(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in conformance with the provisions
of §
153.36(D)(5).
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
153.21(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the
effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during condition of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of §
153.36 shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related and
other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design
flood and without release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by
floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed,
and anchored to resist the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on
an empty tank during design flood conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (J)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
153.36.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
153.36.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
153.36.
(Ord. 29, Art. 5, § B, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.37 RESERVED.
§ 153.38 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as approximate zone A and
established in §
153.07, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available, the following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of §§
153.35 and
153.36, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or 5 times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
153.35 and
153.36).
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than 5 acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
153.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.05.
(Ord. 29, Art. 5, § D, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.39 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
153.35 and
153.36; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. 29, Art. 5, § E, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.40 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
153.35 and
153.36, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit, or
      (2)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If §
153.40(A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
153.36(C); and
      (2)   The no encroachment standard of §
153.40(A).
(Ord. 29, Art. 5, § F, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.41 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
153.35 and
153.36, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of 3 feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least 4 feet above
the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in (A) so that the structure, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with §§
153.21(C) and
153.36(B).
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 29, Art. 5, § G, passed 4-2-2007)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are subject
to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding)
where average depths are one to three feet. Base flood elevations are derived
from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. In addition to §§
153.35 and
153.36, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements: Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.98 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of the chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Vance County from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 29, Art. 3, § H, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
CHAPTER 154: WATERSHED PROTECTION
Section
Authority; General Regulations
   
154.001   Authority and enactment
   
154.002   Title
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Interpretation of watershed area boundaries
   
154.005   Application of regulations
   
154.006   Exceptions to applicability
   
154.007   Prohibiting the recording of an unapproved lot
   
154.008   Public health, in general
   
154.009   Abatement
   
154.010   Definitions
   
154.011   Effective date
Development Regulations
   
154.030   Establishment of watershed areas
   
154.031   Watershed areas described
   
154.032   Special nonresidential intensity allocations
   
154.033   Cluster development
   
154.034   Buffer areas required
   
154.035   Existing development
   
154.036   Watershed protection approval
   
154.037   Building permit required
   
154.038   Watershed protection occupancy approval
Subdivision Regulations
   
154.050   Authority
   
154.051   General provisions
   
154.052   Subdivision application and review procedures
   
154.053   Subdivision standards and required improvements
   
154.054   Construction procedures
   
154.055   Transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions; violation
Amendments
   
154.065   Changes and amendments
   
154.066   Public notice and hearing required
Watershed Administrator
   
154.080   Appointment; duties
   
154.081   Appeal
Watershed Review Board
   
154.095   Establishment
   
154.096   General proceedings
   
154.097   Meetings
   
154.098   Rules of conduct for members
   
154.099   Appeals from Watershed Administrator; variances
   
154.100   Powers and duties
   
154.101   Appeals from Board
 
   
154.999   Penalty
AUTHORITY; GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   (A)   The legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in G.S. Chapter
153A, Article 6, (G.S. § 153A-121), “General Ordinance Authority,” and in
Chapter 143, Article 21, “Air and Water Resources,” delegated the
responsibility or directed local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners does hereby ordain and enact into
law the following provisions as the Watershed Protection Ordinance of the
county.
(Ord. 25 § 101, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Watershed Protection Ordinance of Vance
County, North Carolina, and may be referred to as the watershed ordinance or
this chapter.
(Ord. 25 § 102, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas designated as a
Public Water Supply Watershed by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission
and shall be defined and established on the map entitled “Watershed Protection
Map of Vance County, North Carolina” (the watershed map), which is adopted
simultaneously herewith. The watershed map and all explanatory matter contained
thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this chapter. This chapter
shall be permanently kept on file in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 25 § 103, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION OF WATERSHED AREA BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed areas, as
shown on the watershed map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following either
street, alley, railroad or highway lines or centerlines thereof, the lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (B)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (C)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more than
25 feet from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area boundaries
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the watershed map.
   (D)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance of 25
feet or less from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area
boundaries shall be construed to be the lot line.
   (E)   A surveyed plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be
submitted to the county as evidence that 1 or more properties along these
boundaries does not lie within the watershed area.
   (F)   Where other uncertainty exists, the Watershed Administrator shall
interpret the watershed map as to location of the boundaries. This decision may
be appealed to the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. 25 § 104, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.005 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No transfer of land by deed, bill of sale, contract or other
conveyance document shall be filed with the Register of Deeds until it has been
approved in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and is in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the watershed area in
which the land is located.
   (B)   No building or land shall hereafter be used, and no development shall
take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
   (C)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be included in the area required for another building.
   (D)   Every residential building hereafter erected, moved or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot which conforms to the regulations herein
specified, except as permitted in §
154.035.
   (E)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, the use or class of use is prohibited.
(Ord. 25 § 105, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Nothing contained herein shall repeal, modify or amend any
federal or state law or regulation, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining
thereto except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; nor
shall any provision of this chapter amend, modify or restrict any provisions of
the code of ordinances of the county.
      (2)   However, the adoption of this chapter shall and does amend any and
all ordinances, resolutions and regulations in effect in the county at the time
of the adoption of this chapter that may be construed to impair or reduce the
effectiveness of this chapter or to conflict with any of its provisions.
   (B)   (1)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any
easement, covenants or other agreements between parties.
      (2)   However, if the provisions of these regulations impose greater
restrictions or higher standards for the use of a building or land, then the
provisions of these regulations shall control.
   (C)   (1)   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, is not subject
to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Expansions to structures classified as existing development must
meet the requirements of this chapter; however, the built-upon area of the
existing development is not required to be included in the density
calculations.
   (D)   A pre-existing lot of record owned by a person prior to the effective
date of this chapter, regardless of whether or not a vested right has been
established, may be developed for single-family residential purposes without
being subject to the restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. 25 § 106, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.007 PROHIBITING THE RECORDING OF AN UNAPPROVED LOT.
   No person, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land within the
jurisdiction of the county, may create or record a lot(s) at the Office of the
Register of Deeds for land within a public supply watershed before that lot(s)
has been reviewed and approved under the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 25 § 107, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.008 PUBLIC HEALTH, IN GENERAL.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within the
watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health, safety
and welfare. The conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewage systems
which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion control
measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other refuse
within a buffer area; the absence or improper implementation of a spill
containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper management of
stormwater runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat to water
quality.
(Ord. 25 § 108, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.009 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall monitor land use activities within
the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to water
quality.
   (B)   The Watershed Administrator shall report all findings to the Watershed
Review Board. The Watershed Administrator may consult with any public agency or
official and request recommendations.
   (C)   Where the Watershed Review Board finds a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety and welfare, the Board shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate the condition
and/or violation.
(Ord. 25 § 109, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.010 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Word interpretation. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words
shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words
used in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction
of the wording indicates otherwise.
      (3)   The word PERSON includes a FIRM, ASSOCIATION, CORPORATION, TRUST
and COMPANY as well as an INDIVIDUAL.
      (4)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
      (5)   The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT. 
      (6)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      (7)   The word WILL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. 25 § 112, passed 12-6-1993)
   (B)   General definitions.
      AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation and
other farm purposes.
      ANIMAL UNIT.  A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or nonstructural
management-based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint
source inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection
goals.
      BUFFER.
         (a)   An area of natural or planted vegetation through which
stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become
channelized, and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of
pollutants.
         (b)   The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool elevation
of impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls,
and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property.
The connection of 2 buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be deemed to
make them 1 building.
      BUILT-UPON AREA.  
         (a)   Shall include that portion of a development project that is
covered by impervious or partially impervious cover, including buildings,
pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g., tennis courts) and the
like.
         (b)   Wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are
considered pervious.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes nonresidential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family developments that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
      COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves,
grass and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations
is deposited.
      COUNTY.  Vance County.
      CRITICAL AREA.
         (a)   The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed.
         (b)   The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending either 1/2 mile from
the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located or to
the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or 1/2 mile upstream
from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-river) or
the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first).
         (c)   Local governments may extend the CRITICAL AREA as needed.
         (d)   Major landmarks such as highways or property lines may be used
to delineate the outer boundary of the CRITICAL AREA if these landmarks are
immediately adjacent to the appropriate outer boundary of 1/2 mile.
      CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further, that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor space of any structure is
used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
building except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off-
site, such as a service repair truck, delivery truck and the like.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any land-disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area, or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
      DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A landfill which discharges treated leachate and
which requires a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for 1 family.
      EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects
that at a minimum have established a vested right under state zoning law as of
the effective date of this chapter, based on at least 1 of the following
criteria:
         (a)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based
on a good-faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval
to proceed with the project;
         (b)   Having an outstanding, valid building permit as authorized by
G.S. § 153A-344.1 and G.S. § 160A-385.1; or
         (c)   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site-specific or phased development plan as authorized by
G.S. § 153A-344.1 and G.S. § 160A-385.1.
      EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a
plat of which has been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds prior to
the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided
that, unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such
FAMILY shall contain over 5 persons, but further provided that domestic
servants employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises
without being counted as a FAMILY or FAMILIES.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: SARA § 302,
Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or § 311 of CWA
(oil and hazardous substances).
      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.  Any nonresidential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
      LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9. This term does
not include composting facilities.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building
or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
      MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance from the minimum statewide water supply
watershed protection rules that results in the following:
         (a)   The relaxation, by a factor of greater than 10%, of any
management requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard under the
low density option; or
         (b)   The relaxation of any management requirement that applies to a
development proposal intended to quality under the high density option.
      MINOR VARIANCE.  A variance from the minimum statewide water supply
watershed protection rules that results in a relaxation, by a factor of up to
10%, of any management requirement under the low density option.
      NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.  A lot described by a plat or a deed that
was recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter or its amendments,
that does not meet the minimum lot size or other development requirements of
this chapter.
      NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
      PERENNIAL WATERS. Water that is flowing continuously or courses of water
as indicated on the U.S.G.S. 7.5 minute topographic maps.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has been
subdivided.
      PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area of
the WS-IV watershed. The boundaries of the protected area are defined as within
5 miles of and draining to the normal pool elevation of the reservoir, or to
the ridge line of the watershed or within 10 miles upstream and draining to the
intake located directly in the stream or river or to the ridge line of the
watershed.
      RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence, such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages and the like and their associated outbuildings, such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos and the like, and customary home
occupations.
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where:
         (a)   No building contains more than 1 dwelling unit;
         (b)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
         (c)   Where no lot contains more than 1 dwelling unit.
      STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops
any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
      SUBDIVISION.  
         (a)   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets.
         (b)   The following shall not be included within this definition nor
be subject to the regulations authorized by this chapter:
            1.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots, where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
            2.   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
            3.   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
            4.   The division of a tract in single ownership, whose entire area
is no greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved, and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of this chapter; or
            5.   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
      TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease-causing agents) which, after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse health effects.
      VARIANCE. A permission to develop or use property granted by the
Watershed Review Board relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management
requirement adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is
incorporated into this chapter.
      WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires
access to or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
      WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a
specific point (e.g., the water supply intake.)
      WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of the county
responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 25 § 701, passed 12-6-1993; Am. Ord. passed 9-2-1997)
§ 151.011 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force on January 1, 1994.
(Ord. 25 § 114, passed 12-6-1993)
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 154.030 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED AREAS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to list and describe the watershed
areas herein adopted.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the county is hereby divided into the
following area(s), as appropriate:
      (1)   WS-III-CA (Critical Area);
      (2)   WS-III-BW (Balance of Watershed); and
      (3)   WS-IV-PA (Protected Area).
(Ord. 25 § 201, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.031 WATERSHED AREAS DESCRIBED.
   (A)   WS-III Watershed Areas – Critical Area (WS-III-CA).  
      (1)   In order to maintain a low to moderate land use intensity pattern,
single-family residential uses are allowed at a maximum of 1 dwelling unit per
acre. All residential, other than single-family residential, and nonresidential
development shall be allowed to a maximum of 12% built-upon area. New sludge
application sites and landfills are specifically prohibited.
      (2)   Allowed uses:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
Agricultural activities conducted after January 1, 1993 shall maintain a
minimum 10-foot vegetative buffer, or equivalent control as determined by the
County Soil and Water Conservation Commission, along all perennial waters
indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale
topographic maps or as determined by local government studies. Animal
operations greater than 100 animal units shall employ best management practices
by July 1, 1994 recommended by the Soil and Water Conservation Commission;
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the “Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality” (15 NCAC 1l.6101-.0209). The Division of
Forest Resources–Vance County Forestry Office is the designated management
agency responsible for implementing the provisions pertaining to silviculture
activities;
         (c)   Residential; and
         (d)   1.   Nonresidential development, excluding:
               a.   The manufacture of toxic or hazardous materials or
manufacturing where a byproduct of the process is a toxic or hazardous
material, storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill containment
plan is implemented;
               b.   Landfills; and
               c.   Sites for land application of residuals or petroleum-
contained soils.
            2.   New industrial development is required to incorporate
adequately designed, constructed and maintained spill containment structures if
hazardous materials are either used or stored on the premises.
      (3)   Density and built-upon limits:
         (a)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed 1
dwelling unit per acre on a project-by-project basis. No residential lot shall
be less than 1 acre, except within an approved cluster development.
         (b)   All residential, other than single-family residential, and
nonresidential development shall not exceed 12% built-upon area on a project-
by-project basis. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, the total
project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is
to be developed.
   (B)   WS-III Watershed Areas – Balance of Watershed (WS-III-BW).  
      (1)   In order to maintain a low to moderate land use intensity pattern,
single-family detached uses shall develop with a minimum lot size of 35,000
square feet, where a larger size may be required by the County Health
Department, in accordance with “Laws and Rules for Sewage Treatment and
Disposal Systems,” North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, On-Site Wastewater
Section.
      (2)   All residential, other than single-family residential, and
nonresidential development shall be allowed a maximum of 24% built-upon area.
      (3)   In addition, nonresidential uses may occupy 10% of the watershed
with up to a 70% built-upon area, when approved as a Special Nonresidential
Intensity Allocation (SNIA) as provided for in §
154.032.
      (4)   Nondischarging landfills and sludge application sites are allowed.
      (5)   Allowed uses:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990. The
County Soil and Water Conservation Commission is the designated agency
responsible for implementing the provisions pertaining to agriculture;
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the “Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality” (15 NCAC 1l.6101-.0209). The Division of
Forest Resources–Vance County Forestry Office is the designated management
agency responsible for implementing the provisions pertaining to silviculture
activities;
         (c)   Residential development; and
         (d)   Nonresidential development, excluding discharging landfills and
the storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is
implemented.
      (6)   Density and built-upon limits:
         (a)   For single-family residential, no residential lot shall be less
than 35,000 square feet, where a larger size may be required by the County
Health Department, in accordance with “Laws and Rules for Sewage Treatment and
Disposal Systems,” North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, On-Site Wastewater Section
or except within an approved cluster development.
         (b)   All residential, other than single-family residential, and
nonresidential development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-
by-project basis, except nonresidential uses may occupy 10% of the balance of
the watershed with up to 70% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis when
approved as a Special Nonresidential Intensity Allocation as provided for in §
154.032. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area
shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
   (C)   WS-IV Watershed Areas – Protected Area (WS-IV-PA).  
      (1)   In order to address a moderate to high land use intensity pattern,
single-family residential uses shall develop with a minimum lot size of 35,000
square feet, where a larger size may be required by the County Health
Department, in accordance with “Laws and Rules for Sewage Treatment and
Disposal Systems,” North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, On-Site Wastewater Section
or within an approved cluster development.
      (2)   All residential, other than single-family residential, and
nonresidential development shall be allowed at a maximum of 24% built-upon area
or 36% built-upon area is allowed for projects without a curb and gutter street
system.
      (3)   In addition, nonresidential uses may occupy 10% of the watershed
with up to 70% built-upon area, when approved as a Special Nonresidential
Intensity Allocation (SNIA) as provided for in §
154.032.
      (4)   Uses allowed:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990. The
County Soil and Water Conservation Commission is the designated agency
responsible for implementing the provisions pertaining to agriculture;
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the “Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality” (15 NCAC 1l.6101-.0209). The Division of
Forest Resources–Vance County Forestry Office is the designated management
agency responsible for implementing the provisions pertaining to silviculture
activities;
         (c)   Residential development; and
         (d)   Nonresidential development, excluding the storage of toxic and
hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is implemented.
      (5)   Density and built-upon limits:
         (a)   For single-family residential, no residential lot shall be less
than 35,000 square feet, where a larger size may be required by the County
Health Department, in accordance with “Laws and Rules for Sewage Treatment and
Disposal Systems,” North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, On-Site Wastewater Section
or except within an approved cluster development.
         (b)   All residential, other than single-family residential, and
nonresidential development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-
by-project basis, except nonresidential uses may occupy 10% of the balance of
the watershed with up to 70% built-upon area in a project-by-project basis when
approved for in §
154.032. For projects with a curb and gutter street system, development shall
not exceed 36% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For the purpose
of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage
in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
(Ord. 25 § 202, passed 12-6-1993; Am. Ord. passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.032 SPECIAL NONRESIDENTIAL INTENSITY ALLOCATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability.  
      (1)   (a)   A maximum of 10% of each jurisdiction’s portion of the
watershed, outside of the critical area may be developed with new
nonresidential development projects of up to 70% built-upon surface area.
         (b)   All developments awarded Special Nonresidential Intensity
Allocations (SNIAs) must, to the extent practical, minimize built-upon surface
area, direct stormwater runoff away from surface waters and incorporate best
management practices to minimize water quality impacts. SNIAs are applicable in
the WS-III and WS-IV classifications.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-2-1997)
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners with the recommendation of the
Watershed Board is authorized to approve SNIAs consistent with the provisions
of this chapter. Awards of SNIA must comply with the current allocation
strategy adopted by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Submittal process. Projects may be submitted to the Watershed
Administrator for consideration by the Watershed Review Board for a Special
Nonresidential Intensity Allocation (SNIA). The submittal shall consist of the
site development plan and a written request stating the allowed built-upon
area, the proposed built-upon area (not more than 70%) and an explanation
justifying the requested increase. This justification shall relate to the SNIA
allocation strategy adopted by the Board of Commissioners. Other criteria will
not be considered.
   (C)   Review process.  
      (1)   The Watershed Administrator will route the request to all relevant
internal departments, external agencies and to the Corps of Engineers for
review, comments and recommendations.
      (2)   The Watershed Administrator will prepare a synopsis of the project
and an analysis of the project in relationship to the allocation strategy. The
Watershed Administrator will forward the site plan, written request, the
synopsis, the analysis, the comments and recommendation to the Watershed Review
Board approximately 2 weeks prior to the meeting when it will consider the
project for a SNIA. The applicant will be sent notification of the time, date
and location of the meeting at the same time.
      (3)   The Watershed Review Board will consider the project, the
allocation criteria and formulate a recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners. The Watershed Administrator will forward all materials,
including the site plan, the written request, the synopsis, the analysis, the
comments and recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for its decision.
   (D)   Allocation strategy.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall develop a SNIA allocation
strategy.
      (2)   The strategy shall be reviewed on an annual basis.
      (3)   The strategy shall not be changed or established for a single
development. Awards of SNIA must comply with the current strategy adopted by
the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 25 § 203, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.033 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Clustering of development is allowed in all watershed areas under the
following conditions:
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments in §
154.052. Built-upon area or stormwater control requirements of the project
shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area or balance of watershed,
whichever applies;
   (B)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow; and
   (C)   (1)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or
natural state.
      (2)   Where the development has an incorporated property owners’
association, the title of the open space area shall be conveyed to the
association for management. Where a property association is not incorporated, a
maintenance agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
(Ord. 25 § 204, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.034 BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   A minimum 30-foot vegetative buffer for development activities
is required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local
government studies.
      (2)   Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization is
permitted.
   (B)   (1)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water
dependent structures, other structures such as flagpoles, signs and security
lights which result in only diminutive increased in impervious area, and public
works projects such as road crossings and greenways, where no practical
alternatives exist.
      (2)   These activities should minimize built-upon surface area, direct
runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of stormwater
best management practices.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-2-1997)
   (C)   All required buffer areas shall be shown as a permanent restriction or
easement on the deeds, titles, subdivision plats, development plans and
individual plot plans where the buffer area lies within the boundary described
or shown.
(Ord. 25 § 205, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.035 EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Any existing development as defined in this chapter may be continued
and maintained subject to the provisions provided herein.
   (B)   Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet
the requirements of this chapter; however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the density calculations.
      (1)   Vacant lots.
         (a)   This category consists of vacant lots for which plats or deeds
have been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Vance County.
         (b)   Lots may be used for any of the uses allowed in the watershed
area in which it is located, provided where the lot area is below the minimum
specified in this chapter, the Watershed Administrator is authorized to issue a
watershed protection permit.
      (2)   Occupied lots.
         (a)   This category consists of lots occupied for residential purposes
at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
         (b)   These lots may continue to be used.
      (3)   Nonconforming uses of land.  
         (a)   This category consists of uses, existing at the time of adoption
of this chapter, where the use of the land is not permitted to be established
hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located.
         (b)   The uses may be continued except as follows:
            1.   When the use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any prohibited use;
            2.   The use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use; and
            3.   When the use ceases for a period of at least 1 year, it shall
not be reestablished.
   (C)   Any existing building or built-upon area not in conformance with the
restrictions of this chapter that has been damaged or removed may be repaired
and/or reconstructed, provided:
      (1)   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within 2 years of the damage. There are no time restrictions on
single-family residential development; and
      (2)   (a)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not
be increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
         (b)   There is no restriction on single-family residential
development.
(Ord. 25 § 206, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.036 WATERSHED PROTECTION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Except where a single-family residence is constructed on a lot deeded
prior to the effective date of this chapter, no building or built-upon area
shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued, nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until watershed protection approval has been given by the
Watershed Administrator. No watershed protection approval shall be issued
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   An application shall be filed with the Watershed Administrator
requesting watershed protection approval.
      (2)   The application shall include a completed application form, a site
development plan or subdivision plat and other supporting documentation deemed
necessary by the Watershed Administrator.
   (C)   The Watershed Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for
assistance to determine if the application meets the requirements of this
chapter, prior to issuance of watershed protection approval.
   (D)   Watershed protection approval shall be site- and plan-specific. The
approval may not be transferred to another site or to any other plan. Any
revisions, modification or alterations to the plan must be resubmitted,
reviewed and reconsidered for approval. Watershed protection approval shall not
be construed as a building permit nor does it alter any other requirements of
the county, state or federal government.
(Ord. 25 § 207, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.037 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except for a single-family residence constructed on a lot deeded prior to
the effective date of this chapter, no permit required under the North Carolina
State Building Code shall be issued for any activity for which watershed
protection approval is required until that approval has been granted.
(Ord. 25 § 208, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.038 WATERSHED PROTECTION OCCUPANCY APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue watershed protection occupancy
approval certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met prior
to the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved and/
or prior to the change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   Watershed protection occupancy approval, either for the whole or part
of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
watershed protection approval and shall be granted or denied within 10 days
after the erection or structural alterations of the building.
   (C)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Watershed Administrator shall issue watershed protection occupancy approval
certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met coincident with
the watershed protection approval.
   (D)   If watershed protection occupancy approval is denied, the Watershed
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for
denial.
   (E)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Watershed Administrator has
approved and granted a watershed protection occupancy approval.
(Ord. 25 § 209, passed 12-6-1993)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 154.050 AUTHORITY.
   Provisions in this subchapter are derived in part from G.S. Chapter 153A,
Article 18, Part 2.
(Ord. 25 Art. 300, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.051 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No subdivision plat of land within the public water supply
watershed shall be filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been
approved in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Likewise, the Clerk of Superior Court shall not order or direct the
recording of a plat if the recording of the plat would be in conflict with this
subchapter.
   (B)   The approval of a plat does not constitute or effect the acceptance by
the county or the public of the dedication of any street or other ground,
easement, right-of-way, public utility line, or other public facility shown on
the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
   (C)   All subdivisions shall conform with the mapping requirements contained
in G.S.§ 47-30.
   (D)   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of the county after
the effective date of this chapter shall require a plat to be prepared,
approved and recorded pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 25 § 301, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.052 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed prior to recording
with the Register of Deeds by submitting a vicinity map with tax parcel numbers
to the Watershed Administrator to determine whether or not the property is
located within the designated public water supply watershed. Subdivisions that
are not within the designated watershed area shall not be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. The Watershed Administrator shall attach a
certification that the land specified does not lie within a public supply
watershed.
      (2)   Subdivisions within the designated watershed area shall comply with
the provisions of this subchapter and all other state and local requirements
that may apply.
   (B)   Subdivision applications shall be filed with the Watershed
Administrator. The application shall include a completed application form, 10
copies of the plat and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the
Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The Watershed Administrator shall review the completed
application and submit recommendations to the Watershed Review Board for
further review and final action.
         (b)   The Watershed Review Board shall either approve, approve
conditionally or disapprove each application by a majority vote of the members
present and voting.
         (c)   First consideration of the application shall be at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board after the application is submitted.
         (d)   The Board shall take final action within 45 days of its first
consideration.
      (2)   The Watershed Administrator or the Board may provide public
agencies an opportunity to review and make recommendations. However, failure of
the agencies to submit their comments and recommendations shall not delay the
Board’s action within the prescribed time limit. These public agencies may
include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   The North Carolina Department of Transportation District Highway
Engineer with regard to proposed streets and highways;
         (b)   The Director of the County Health Department with regard to
proposed private water system or sewer systems normally approved by the Health
Department;
         (c)   The State Division of Environmental Management with regard to
proposed sewer systems normally approved by the Division, engineered stormwater
controls or stormwater management in general; and
         (d)   Any other agency or official designated by the Watershed
Administrator or Watershed Review Board.
   (D)   If the Watershed Review Board approves the application, that approval
shall be indicated on both copies of the plat by the following certificate and
signed by the Chairperson or other authorized member of the Board:
   Certificate of Approval for Recording
I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the Watershed Protection
Ordinance and is approved by the Watershed Review Board for recording in the
Register of Deeds office.
   ______________               ________________________________
Date                     Chairperson, Watershed Review Board
NOTICE: This property is located within a Public Water Supply Watershed —
development restrictions may apply.
   (E)   If the Watershed Review Board disapproves or approves conditionally
the application, the reasons for that action shall be stated in writing for the
applicant and entered in the minutes. The subdivider may make changes and
submit a revised plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose
of review.
   (F)   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements for recording
of the County Register of Deeds.
   (G)   The Register of Deeds will forward 1 copy of the recorded plat to the
Watershed Administrator within 5 working days of its being recorded.
(Ord. 25 § 302, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.053 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Size standards.
      (1)   All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance with
the development standards contained in §§
154.030 through
154.038.
      (2)   Lots which are smaller than the minimum required for residential
lots shall be identified on the plat as to their specific purpose and use,
including restrictions if applicable.
   (B)   Area calculation. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area,
total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the
project is to be developed.
   (C)   Stormwater drainage facilities.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by a description of the
proposed method of providing stormwater drainage.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts
stormwater runoff away from surface waters and incorporates best management
practices to minimize water quality impacts.
   (D)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a sedimentation and erosion control plan that has
been submitted to and approved by the N.C. Division of Land Quality.
   (E)   Roads constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas.
      (1)   Where possible, roads should be located outside of critical areas
and watershed buffer areas.
      (2)   Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and
constructed so to minimize their impact on water quality.
(Ord. 25 § 303, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.054 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved by the
Watershed Review Board.
   (B)   (1)   No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met.
      (2)   The subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the
subdivision, shall make arrangements with the Watershed Administrator to
provide for adequate inspection.
(Ord. 25 § 304, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.055 TRANSFERRING LOTS IN UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS; VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the jurisdiction of the county, thereafter subdivides his or her
land in violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under this chapter and recorded in
the Office of the Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty.
   (C)   The county may bring an action for injunction of any illegal
subdivision, transfer, conveyance or sale of land, and the court shall, upon
appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending
party to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 25 § 305, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
154.999
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.065 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may, on its own motion or on
petition, after public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify
the watershed regulations and restrictions as described herein.
   (B)   (1)   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted
to the Watershed Review Board for review and recommendations.
      (2)   If no recommendation has been received from the Watershed Review
Board within 45 days after submission of the proposal to the Chairperson of the
Watershed Review Board, the Board of County Commissioners may proceed as though
a favorable report had been received.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of County Commissioners adopt
amendments, supplements or changes that would cause this chapter to violate the
watershed protection rules as adopted by the N.C. Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments must be filed with the N.C. Division of
Environmental Management, N.C. Division of Environmental Health, and the N.C.
Division of Community Assistance.
(Ord. 25 § 401, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.066 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before adopting or amending this chapter, the Board of County
Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed changes.
   (B)   A notice of the public hearing shall be given once a week for 2
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the
area. The notice shall be published for the first time not less than 10 nor
more than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing.
(Ord. 25 § 402, passed 12-6-1993)
WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR
§ 154.080 APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Manager shall appoint a Watershed Administrator, who shall
be duly sworn in.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Watershed Administrator to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter as follows:
      (1)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue watershed protection
approvals and watershed protection occupancy approvals as prescribed herein. A
record of all approvals shall be kept on file and shall be available for public
inspection during regular office hours of the Administrator.
      (2)   The Watershed Administrator shall serve as Clerk to the Watershed
Review Board.
      (3)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to
this chapter and shall provide copies of all amendments upon adoption to the
Supervisor of the Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section,
Division of Environmental Management.
      (4)   (a)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of the
jurisdiction’s utilization of the provision that a maximum of 10% of the
noncritical area of the WS-III-BW watersheds may be developed with
nonresidential development to a maximum of 70% built-upon surface area.
         (b)   Records for each watershed shall include the total acres of
noncritical watershed area, total acres eligible to be developed under this
option, total acres approved for this development option, and individual
records for each project with the following information: location, acres, site
plan, use, stormwater management plan as applicable and inventory of hazardous
materials as applicable.
      (5)   (a)   The Watershed Administrator is granted the authority to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, exercising in the
fulfillment of his or her responsibility the full police power of the county.
         (b)   The Watershed Administrator, or his or her duly authorized
representative, may enter any building, structure or premises, as provided by
law, to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter.
      (6)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep a record of all variances to
this chapter, which shall be submitted for each calendar year to the Division
of Water Quality on or before January 1 of the following year, and shall
provide a description of each project receiving a variance and the reasons for
granting the variance.
(Ord. 25 § 501, passed 12-6-1993; Am. Ord. passed 9-2-1997)
§ 154.081 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Watershed Administrator may be appealed to and decided by the Watershed Review
Board.
   (B)   (1)   An appeal from a decision of the Watershed Administrator must be
submitted to the Watershed Review Board within 30 days from the date the order,
interpretation, decision or determination is made. All appeals must be made in
writing stating the reasons for appeal.
      (2)   Following submission of an appeal, the Watershed Administrator
shall transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   (1)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion
cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In that case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of record on
application of notice of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and upon due
cause shown.
   (D)   (1)   The Board shall fix a reasonable date for hearing the appeal and
give notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within a
reasonable time.
      (2)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney.
(Ord. 25 § 502, passed 12-6-1993)
WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD
§ 154.095 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be and hereby is created the Watershed Review Board
consisting of 5 members appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   All terms shall be for 3 years, and members may be reappointed. It
is recommended that at least 1 member be chosen from 1 of the watershed areas.
   (B)   Two alternate members shall be appointed to serve on the Watershed
Review Board in the absence of any regular member and shall be appointed for 3-
year terms. While attending in the capacity of a regular member, the alternate
shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the absent regular member.
It is recommended that at least 1 member be chosen from 1 of the watershed
areas.
(Ord. 25 § 601, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.096 GENERAL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson
from among its members. The Chairperson in turn shall appoint a Secretary, who
may be an employee of the county, county officer or a member of the Watershed
Review Board.
   (B)   The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Vice-Chairperson, may
administer oaths and request the attendance of witnesses. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, including the names of members present and absent,
a record of the vote on every question or abstention from voting, if any,
together with records of its examinations and other official actions.
(Ord. 25 § 602, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.097 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Board meetings.
      (1)   The Board shall hold regular monthly meetings at a specified time
and place.
      (2)   Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time by the
Chairperson or by request of 3 or more members of the Board. At least 48 hours’
written notice of the time and place of meetings shall be given, by the
Chairperson, to each member of the Board. All Board meetings are to be held in
accordance with the open meetings law provisions of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
   (B)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there are no appeals or other
business for the Board, or whenever so many members so notify the Secretary of
inability to attend that a quorum will not be available, the Chairperson may
dispense with a meeting by giving written or oral notice to all members.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of 3 members of the Board, but the
Board shall not pass upon any questions relating to an appeal from a decision
or determination of the Watershed Administrator when there are fewer than 4/
5 of the members present.
   (D)   Voting.
      (1)   All regular members may vote on any issue unless they have
disqualified themselves for 1 or more of the reasons listed in this chapter.
      (2)   The required vote to decide applications for appeals and variances
shall not be reduced by any disqualification.
      (3)   In all other matters, the vote of a majority of the members present
and voting shall decide issues before the Board.
(Ord. 25 § 603, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.098 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board may be removed by the Board of County Commissioners for
cause, including violation of the rules stated below.
   (A)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite to continuing membership on the Board.
   (B)   No Board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration, or
determination of any case in which he or she is personally or financially
interested. A Board member shall have a financial interest in a case when a
decision in the case will cause him or her or his or her spouse to experience a
direct financial benefit or loss, or will cause a business in which he or she
or his or her spouse owns a 10% or greater interest, or is involved in a
decision-making role, to experience a direct financial benefit or loss. A Board
member shall have a personal interest in a case when it involves a member of
his or her immediate family (i.e., parent, spouse or child).
   (C)   (1)   For cases where appeals or variance consideration are to be
considered, no Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto
prior to the public hearing on that case; provided, however, that members may
receive and/or seek information pertaining to the case from the Watershed
Administrator or any other member of the Board, its Secretary or Clerk prior to
the hearing.
      (2)   (a)   Where the Board is to consider a Special Nonresidential
Intensity Allocation or is to consider approval of a subdivision, a Board
member should not place himself or herself in a position where a special favor,
interest or consideration could be construed.
         (b)   Generally, all information pertinent to a case would be of value
to the entire Board and should be offered by the applicant at the public
meeting with all members in attendance.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case prior to its determination on that case.
   (E)   Members of the Board shall give notice to the Chairperson as soon as
the member becomes aware of any potential conflict of interest which he or she
has in a particular case before the Board.
   (F)   No Board member shall vote on any matter that decides an application
or appeal unless he or she had attended the public hearing on that application
or appeal.
(Ord. 25 § 604, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.099 APPEALS FROM WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR; VARIANCES.
   (A)   Types.
      (1)   Appeals.  The Board shall hear and decide all appeals from any
decision or determination made by the Watershed Administrator.
      (2)   Variances. All applications for variances shall first be presented
to the Watershed Administrator, who in turn shall refer the applications to the
Watershed Review Board for review and decision in accordance with the
procedures outlined in §
154.100 of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure for filing applications for appeals and variances. No
hearing shall be held by the Board unless notice thereof is filed within 30
days after the interested party or parties receive the written decision or
determination by the Watershed Administrator or the aggrieved party or parties
receive constructive notice of the decision. Applications shall be filed with
the Watershed Administrator, who shall act as Clerk for the Board in receiving
this notice. All applications shall be made upon the form specified for that
purpose and all information required on the form shall be complete before an
application shall be considered as having been filed. Once applications have
been filed, the Watershed Administrator shall immediately notify the
Chairperson of the Board that the applications have been received.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   Time. After receipt of an application for an appeal or variance,
the Board Chairperson shall schedule a time for a hearing which shall be within
45 days from the filing of the notice of the application.
      (2)   Notice of hearing.
         (a)   For all applications, notice of the hearing shall be mailed to
the adjoining property owners and to other persons as the Watershed
Administrator shall direct at least 5 days prior to the hearing.
         (b)   The notice shall state the location of the building or lot, the
general nature of the question involved and the time and place of the hearing.
      (3)   Conduct of hearing. The hearing shall be a quasi-judicial
proceeding.
         (a)   Any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney at the
hearing.
         (b)   The order of business for the hearing shall be as follows:
            1.   The Chairperson, or a person as he or she shall direct, shall
give a preliminary statement of the case;
            2.   The applicant shall present the argument in support of the
application;
            3.   Persons opposed to granting the application shall present
their argument against the application;
            4.   Both sides will be permitted to present rebuttals to opposing
testimony;
            5.   The Chairperson shall summarize the evidence which has been
presented, giving the parties opportunity to make objections or corrections.
         (c)   Witnesses may be called and factual evidence may be submitted,
but the Board shall not be limited to consideration of only such evidence as
would be admissible in a court of law. The Board may view the premises before
arriving at a decision. All witnesses before the Board shall be placed under
oath and the opposing party may cross-examine them.
   (D)   Decisions. 
      (1)   Time. A decision by the Board shall be made within 35 days from the
time of hearing.
      (2)   Form.
         (a)   Written notice by certified or registered mail of the decision
in a case shall be given to the applicant or appellant by the Secretary as soon
as practical after the case is decided.
         (b)   Also, written notice shall be given to owners of the subject
property and to persons who have made a written request for the notice. The
final decision of the Board shall be shown in the record of the case as entered
in the approved minutes. The record shall show the reasons for the
determination, with a summary of the evidence introduced and the findings of
fact made.
      (3)   Effect on decision. The decision on an application for an appeal
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision or
determination of the Watershed Administrator.
      (4)   Major variance. With an application for a major variance, the
Watershed Review Board shall provide a recommendation to the N.C. Environmental
Management Commission. The N.C. Environmental Management Commission shall have
the authority to approve or deny the issuance of a variance. If the N.C.
Environmental Management Commission approves the variance, the Watershed Review
Board may direct the Watershed Administrator to issue a watershed protection
permit.
      (5)   Voting. The concurring vote of 4/5 of the members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any decision or determination of the Watershed
Administrator. A majority vote of the members present and voting is required to
provide a recommendation to the N.C. Environmental Management Commission on an
application for a major variance.
      (6)   Public record of decisions. The decisions of the Board, as filed in
its minutes, shall be a public record and available for inspection at all
reasonable times. Every decision of the Watershed Review Board shall be filed
in the office of the Watershed Administrator and a written copy thereof shall
be delivered to the applicant and adjacent property owners by personal service
or registered mail.
      (7)   Decisions and appeals.
         (a)   1.   Every decision by the Board regarding appeals from
decisions of the Watershed Administrator shall be subject to review by the
Superior Court by proceeding in the nature of certiorari.
            2.   Any petition for review by the Superior Court shall be filed
with the Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the decision of the Board
is filed in that office as the ordinance specifies, or after a written copy
thereof is delivered to every aggrieved party who has filed a written request
for a copy with the Secretary or Chairperson of the Board at the time of its
hearing of the case, whichever is later.
         (b)   The decision of the Board may be delivered to the aggrieved
party either by personal service, by registered mail, or certified mail return
receipt requested.
(Ord. 25 § 605, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.100 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Administrative review. The Watershed Review Board shall hear and
decide appeals from any decision or determination made by the Watershed
Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances. The Watershed Review Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this chapter as
will not be contrary to the public interests where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this chapter will result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall
be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
In addition, the county shall notify and allow a reasonable comment period for
all other local governments having jurisdiction in the designated watershed
where the variance is being considered.
      (1)   Applications for a variance shall be made on the proper form
obtainable from the Watershed Administrator and shall include the following
information:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least 1 inch to 40 feet,
indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which the use is proposed; any
existing or proposed structures; parking areas and other built-upon areas;
surface water drainage. The site plan shall be neatly drawn and indicate north
point, name and address of person who prepared the plan, date of the original
drawing and an accurate record of any later revisions;
         (b)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Watershed Review Board in considering the application;
         (c)   The Watershed Administrator shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed and the entity using the water
for consumption. This notice shall include a description of the variance being
requested. Local governments receiving notice of the variance request may
submit comments to the Watershed Administrator prior to a decision by the
Watershed Review Board. The comments shall become a part of the record of
proceedings of the Watershed Review Board.
      (2)   Before the Watershed Review Board may grant a variance, it shall
make the following 3 findings, which shall be recorded in the permanent record
of the case, and shall include the factual reasons on which they are based:
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the chapter. In order to determine
that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the Board must
find that the 5 following conditions exist:
            1.   If he or she complies with the provisions of the ordinance,
the applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of
his or her property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater
profit to be made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify
the Board in granting a variance. Moreover, the Board shall consider whether
the variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of the ordinance
that will make possible the reasonable use of his or her property;
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the ordinance to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship;
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant’s
property, such as its size, shape or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property;
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who violates the chapter, or who purchases the property after the effective
date of the chapter, and then comes to the Board for relief; and
            5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter and preserves its spirit; and
         (c)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board shall not
grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect impair the
public health, safety or general welfare.
      (3)   (a)   In granting the variance, the Board may attach thereto
conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
proposed building, structure or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of
the purpose of this chapter.
         (b)   If a variance for the construction, alteration or use of
property is granted, the construction, alteration or use shall be in accordance
with the approved site plan.
      (4)   The Watershed Review Board shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
      (5)   A variance issued in accordance with this section shall be
considered watershed protection approval and shall be site- and plan-specific.
Any alterations effecting the variance may be grounds for
a new hearing. If the application calls for the granting of a major variance,
and if the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance,
the Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed.
         (a)   The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
            (1)   The variance application;
            (2)   The hearing notices;
            (3)   The evidence presented;
            (4)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence and rulings
on them;
            (5)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
            (6)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to
be added to the permit.
         (b)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental
Management Commission for its review as follows:
            1.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that
the variance qualifies as a major variance, and that the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted; and the variance, if granted, will not
result in a serious threat to the water supply; then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approve the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision
and send it to the Watershed Review Board. If the Commission approves the
variance as proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the
proposed variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including the
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
            2.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that
the variance qualifies as a major variance, and that the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance, or the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to
the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Watershed Review Board. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
   (C)   Approvals. Approval of all development greater than the low density
option.
(Ord. 25 § 606, passed 12-6-1993)
Cross-references:
   Public health, see §§
154.030 through
154.038
   Subdivision approval, see §§
154.050 through
154.055
§ 154.101 APPEALS FROM BOARD.
   Every decision by the Board regarding appeals from decisions of the
Watershed Administrator shall be subject to review by Superior Court by
proceeding in the nature of certiorari. Any petition for review by the Superior
Court shall be filed with the Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the
decision of the Board is filed in the office as the chapter specifies, or after
a written copy thereof is delivered to every aggrieved party who has filed a
written request for a copy with the Secretary or Chairperson of the Board at
the time of its hearing of the case, whichever is later. The decision of the
Board may be delivered to the aggrieved party either by personal service or by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested.
(Ord. 25 § 607, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with
G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   The maximum fine for each offense shall not exceed $500.
      (3)   Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 25 § 110, passed 12-6-1993)
   (B)   Remedies.  
      (1)   (a)   If any subdivision, development and/or land use is found to
be in violation of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may, in
addition to all other remedies available either in law or in equity institute:
            1.   A civil penalty in the amount of $500;
            2.   Action or proceedings to restrain, correct or abate the
violation;
            3.   Action to prevent occupancy of the building, structure or
land; or
            4.   Action to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use
in or about the premises.
         (b)   In addition, the N.C. Environmental Management Commission may
assess civil penalties in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6A. Each day that the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   (a)   If the Watershed Administrator finds that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall:
            1.   Notify in writing the person responsible for the violation,
indicating the nature of the violation, and ordering the action necessary to
correct it;
            2.   Order discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or
structures;
            3.   Order removal of illegal buildings or structures, or of
additions, alterations or structural changes thereto;
            4.   Order discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or
            5.   Shall take any action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
         (b)   If a ruling of the Watershed Administrator is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. 25 § 111, passed 12-6-1993)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Purpose, Jurisdiction, Authority, and Title
   
155.001   Purpose
   
155.002   Jurisdiction
   
155.003   Authority
   
155.004   Title
General Provisions
   
155.015   Definition of subdivision(s) and exemptions
   
155.016   Prohibited acts
   
155.017   Violations
   
155.018   Interpretation
   
155.019   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.020   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.021   Other approval required
   
155.022   Waiver
   
155.023   Zoned areas and other plans
   
155.024   Existing subdivision
   
155.025   Amendments
   
155.026   Authorization to proceed required
   
155.027   Fees
   
155.028   Effective date
General Design Standards
   
155.040   Generally
   
155.041   Purpose
   
155.042   Improvements, dedications, easements and minimum standards of design
required
   
155.043   Suitability of land
   
155.044   Soils
   
155.045   Grading and drainage
   
155.046   Erosion control and sedimentation management
   
155.047   Water supply watershed protection
   
155.048   Floodplains
   
155.049   Natural vegetation preservation and landscaping
   
155.050   Installation, alteration and use of utilities
Road Standards; Transportation, Roadway Access and Circulation Standards
   
155.065   Roads must meet standards
   
155.066   Minor subdivision access
   
155.067   Major subdivision access
   
155.068   Public or private roads designated on plat
   
155.069   Extension of public roads
   
155.070   Public roads
   
155.071   Private roads by type
   
155.072   Private road by class; private roads and private access easements by
class, right-of-way, ownership and construction standards
   
155.073   Private roads allowed
   
155.074   Private road requirements
   
155.075   Standards for all roads
Standards for Subdivisions
   
155.090   Generally
   
155.091   Purpose
   
155.092   Approval required
   
155.093   Private road and private access easement construction plan submittal,
review, construction, inspection and maintenance requirements
   
155.094   Minor subdivision roads and lot access provisions
   
155.095   Required improvements and minimum standards of design
   
155.096   Improvements, dedications, easements and minimum standards of design
required
   
155.097   Lots
   
155.098   Blocks
   
155.099   Easements
   
155.100   Minimum setbacks
   
155.101   Parking
   
155.102   Residential fencing and walls
   
155.103   Naming of a development
   
155.104   Identification sign allowed
   
155.105   Other signs
   
155.106   911 address number required to be posted
   
155.107   Cemeteries
   
155.108   Home owner’s associations
   
155.109   Boat docks
   
155.110   Construction assurances for minor subdivisions
   
155.111   Minor subdivision application forms and requirements
For Major Subdivisions
   
155.125   Purpose
   
155.126   Generally
   
155.127   Approval required
   
155.128   Pre-submittal conference and concept plan submittal and review
   
155.129   Completion of development in phases
   
155.130   Subdivision application forms and additional information requirements
   
155.131   Improvements, dedications, easements and minimum standards of design
required
Bonds and Assurances
   
155.145   Construction assurances
Word Usage and Definitions
   
155.160   Usage
   
155.161   Definitions
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Regulations, see
Chapter 156
PURPOSE, JURISDICTION, AUTHORITY AND TITLE
§ 155.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of land within Vance County and will provide
orderly growth and development by regulating and guiding the establishment of
county subdivisions, private and public roads and reservation of rights-of-way
pursuant to G.S. §§ 136-66.10 or 136-66.11.
   (B)   Further, it will help with the distribution of population and traffic
in a manner that will enhance public health, safety and welfare while
protecting the environment and will promote a sound economically stable
community.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 101)
§ 155.002 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the establishment of each and every new
subdivision and the alteration or expansion of existing subdivisions lying
within the jurisdiction of Vance County and within the jurisdiction of any
municipality whose governing body by resolution agrees to the regulation.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 102)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY.
   Vance County hereby exercises its authority to adopt and enforce a
Subdivision Ordinance under the provision granted by the provisions of the G.S.
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Pt. 2.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 103)
§ 155.004 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Subdivision Ordinance of Vance County,
North Carolina, except herein, where it shall be known as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 104)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.015 DEFINITION OF SUBDIVISION(S) AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   “Subdivision” defined. For the purpose of this chapter, SUBDIVISION
shall have the meaning and exemptions as set forth in G.S. § 153A-335, as
amended, recodified or replaced.
      Note: for ease of reference for our citizens, the following is the
current statutory definition. Please verify the current definition before
proceeding with any activity which may be controlled herein.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development whether immediate or future and includes all division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or change in existing streets;
however, the following is not included within this definition and are not
subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this to this chapter.
         (b)   Exemptions:
            1.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the county as shown in
its subdivision regulations;
            2.   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
            3.   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for
widening or opening streets; and
            4.   The division of a tract into single ownership where the entire
area is no greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, if no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and if the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the county as shown by this chapter.
   (B)   Certification of exemption. In accordance with state law, no map or
plat showing a division of land within Vance County's planning jurisdiction may
be recorded with the Register of Deeds unless it has been certified that the
map or plat is approved in accordance with this chapter or is exempt and is
signed by the Subdivision Administrator.
   (C)   Exemption ruling appeal. If the owner of the property or authorized
agent does not agree with any exemption ruling, he or she may appeal the
decisions to the Planning Board. The appeal shall be submitted to the Planning
Department subject to filing deadlines, to be reviewed at the next regular
meeting of the Planning Board. Division of lands exempted from this chapter
shall have affixed to the final plat the certificate of exemption found in the
subdivision policy and procedures document and must be signed by the planning
director prior to recordation.
   (D)   Classification of subdivision.
      (1)   Minor subdivision.
         (a)   1.   A subdivision pursuant to this chapter to be used only for
single-family detached residential uses and where the lots may have access to:
an existing public or private road; or a proposed Class 1 or 2 private road; or
a private access easement with access to no more than 4 lots in accordance with
§
155.072(I); and
            2.   Where the proposed subdivision does not:
               a.   Create more than 7 lots, including the parent tract (not
limited by time and/or ownership);
               b.   Dedicate or improve any new public roads;
               c.   Adversely affect the development potential of the remaining
or adjoining properties;
               d.   Preclude reasonable and safe access to the adjoining or
remainder of the tract of land being subdivided via the future use of a 60-foot
wide public or private street (25 feet if 60 feet is not available); and
               e.   Propose lots entirely or substantially located in a flood
hazard area as defined by
Chapter 153.
         (b)   All minor subdivisions shall be in compliance with the standards
of §§
155.040 et seq. and
155.065 et seq. and other applicable standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Major subdivision. Any subdivision other than a minor subdivision,
including all subdivisions of land for which a non-residential use is proposed
regardless of size. All major subdivisions shall be in compliance with §§
155.090 et seq. and
155.125 et seq. and all other applicable sections of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 201; Am. Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 155.016 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, the Subdivision Review
Officer, pursuant to G.S. § 47-30.2, shall not certify a plat located within
the territorial jurisdiction of the county if it is not in compliance with this
chapter. The Clerk of Superior Court shall not record or order the recording of
a plat in conflict with this section. No permits for construction shall be
issued until the subdivision has been approved and recorded as provided herein.
The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or the
document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt
the transaction from this requirement.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation shall create a subdivision, transfer or sell land or use a plat
showing a subdivision for any other purpose, unless the subdivision is in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.017 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, any owner or owner's agent
who subdivides a portion of land within the territorial jurisdiction of this
county in violation of this chapter before the plat has been approved and
recorded shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The county, through its
attorney or other official designated by the Vance County Board of
Commissioners, may bring an injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer,
conveyance or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings,
issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with this
chapter.
   (B)   Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate and
distinct offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Vance County from
taking the other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.018 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements and deemed neither to limit nor repeal
any other powers granted under state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 204)
§ 155.019 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of Vance County or by
any officer or employee thereof for any damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 205)
§ 155.020 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The adoption and implementation of this chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere with any existing easements,
covenants, deed restrictions, agreements, rules, regulations or permits
previously adopted or issued pursuant to law or other Vance County ordinances.
Should a conflict arise between this chapter and any other applicable
regulations, the more restrictive shall prevail.
   (B)   The following may impose additional regulations for land and
structures located in Vance County and are hereby adopted and incorporated into
this chapter by reference as though it was copied herein fully:
      (1)   The North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted by the Building
Code Council and enforced by state and local code enforcement officials, and
including all volumes;
      (2)   The National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards;
      (3)   The National Flood Insurance Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance; and
      (4)   The Vance County Watershed Protection Ordinance.
   (C)   The following agencies may impose additional regulations for land and
structures located in Vance County and are hereby referenced:
      (1)   The North Carolina Department of Transportation;
      (2)   The North Carolina Department of Human Resources, Environmental
Health Division and the Vance County Department of Public and Environmental
Health;
      (3)   North Carolina Division of Water Quality - Sedimentation Control;
and
      (4)   Other federal or state agencies.
   (D)   For subdivisions required to provide or proposing to provide public
water and/or public sewer service, the City of Henderson regulations shall
govern only the connection to and design, construction and maintenance of these
systems.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 206)
§ 155.021 OTHER APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   The granting of an approval under the provisions of this chapter shall
in no way affect any other type of approval required by any other statute or
ordinance of the state or any political subdivision of the state, or of the
United States, but shall be construed as an added requirement.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the
plans, construction or designated use of a building or structure where a
building permit was secured prior to the adoption of this chapter, so long as
the building permit remains valid.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 207)
§ 155.022 WAIVER.
   Where in its opinion a waiver will result in equal or better performance in
furtherance of the purposes of this chapter, or where strict adherence to the
provisions of this chapter would cause an unnecessary hardship due to
topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, or where, through an
unintentional error by the applicant, his or her agent, or the reviewing staff,
there is a minor violation of a standard in §§
155.015 et seq., where the violation is not prejudicial to the value or
development potential of the subdivision or adjoining properties, the Planning
Board may approve a waiver or a waiver with conditions when the approval will
result in meeting the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 208)
§ 155.023 ZONED AREAS AND OTHER PLANS.
   In areas of the county where a zoning ordinance is in effect, development
shall be permitted only in conformance with the regulations of the zoned
district in which they are located, and any other officially adopted plans.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.024 EXISTING SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The standards of this chapter are not applicable to existing
subdivisions or existing lots in a subdivision for which a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and has not expired; or
for which an occupancy certificate has been issued, provided that the
subdivision plat or deed of transfer has been recorded prior to the effective
date of this chapter.
   (B)   Changes to the lots after the effective date of this chapter
including, but not limited to, lot size, lot location, lot configuration or lot
lines shall be in conformance with this chapter (legal re-combinations
excepted).
   (C)   The standards of this chapter shall not apply to lots or subdivisions
being developed in good faith prior to the effective date of this chapter,
provided the sub-divider submits the following:
      (1)   Evidence of a formal plan prior to the effective date of the
ordinance;
      (2)   Provides the Planning Department within 90 days after the effective
date of this chapter, a copy of the subdivision plan which meets the minimum
requirements of G.S. § 47-30 prepared prior to the effective date of the
ordinance;
      (3)   Evidence of substantial expenditure of resources; and
      (4)   Provides documentation, within 90 days after the effective date of
this chapter, proving the substantial expenditure of resources. The owner/
developer shall bear the burden of proof.
   (D)   The adoption of this chapter shall not constitute permission to
continue or initiate any unsafe, unhealthy activity, nor shall it relieve the
owner/developer of responsibility to comply with all appropriate and/or
pertinent regulations or standards.
   (E)   An undeveloped recorded subdivision shall be subject to any state or
local laws or standards which have changed since the time of the recording, if
the law or standard are specifically retroactive.
   (F)   Subdivisions or phases of subdivisions not legally recorded prior to
the adoption of this chapter shall not be recorded unless the subdivision meets
the requirements of this chapter, except as in provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 210)
§ 155.025 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners may approve amendments to this
chapter.
      (2)   The request for the amendments may be initiated by the Board of
Commissioners, the Planning Board, county staff members or by the public.
   (B)   (1)   Request for amendments to this chapter shall first be reviewed
by the Planning Department and the County Attorney and then forwarded to the
Planning Board with any recommendations.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall schedule a public hearing and shall review
the recommendation(s) and comments from the public hearing prior to sending the
request and recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for action.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 211)
§ 155.026 AUTHORIZATION TO PROCEED REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. No development activity shall commence until confirmation
of compliance to this chapter and the specific issue of permission to proceed.
   (B)   Permits for lots of record. Permits for development and construction
shall not be issued except as is allowed in §
155.024(A) for any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
(11-4-1999) until compliance with applicable state and local laws has been met.
   (C)   Plot plan required. No development permit shall be issued for a lot in
a minor or major subdivision proposing direct access to a major thoroughfare in
Vance County until a Plot Plan (see definition of Plot Plan, §§
155.160 et seq.) has been submitted to the Planning Department, reviewed for
applicability of all regulations and approved and signed by an Authorized
Review Officer.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 213) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.027 FEES.
   (A)   The Vance County Board of Commissioners shall establish and authorize
the collection of appropriate fees to recover the cost of operation.
   (B)   These fees shall be established in a Policy and Procedures document
and shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 214)
§ 155.028 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force on 11-4-1999.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 216)
GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.040 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Vance County Planning Board has the right and responsibility to
review, and require revisions to, any proposed subdivision plat.
   (B)   The purpose of this review is to:
      (1)   Relieve demonstrable adverse impacts of the development upon public
safety, health or welfare;
      (2)   Determine that adequate and sustainable utilities and services are
available for the development;
      (3)   Protect public investments in roads, drainage facilities, sewage
facilities and public water supplies;
      (4)   Preserve the value of land and development; and
      (5)   Assure that the regulations of Vance County are upheld.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 301)
§ 155.041 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish standards and procedures
for the development of major and minor subdivisions while preserving the
natural environment and resources, enhancing the economic growth and providing
standards to protect public health, safety and welfare in the county.
   (B)   (1)   Landscaping shall preserve the natural environment by minimizing
tree and soil removal and providing enhancement to the neighboring development
areas.
      (2)   Natural topography and drainage shall be maintained and steps must
be taken to minimize the impact of the development on the local environment.
Swales and other natural channels shall be maintained.
   (C)   Roads shall be designed and located as to maintain and preserve
natural topography, cover, significant landmarks, and natural vegetation, to
minimize cut and fill and shall preserve and enhance views and vistas on or off
the subject parcel.
   (D)   Proposed developments shall be related harmoniously to the terrain.
   (E)   The removal or disruption of historic, traditional or significant
uses, structures or architectural elements shall be minimized insofar as
practical, whether these exist on the site or on adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.042 IMPROVEMENTS, DEDICATIONS, EASEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in §§
155.040 et seq. and
155.065 et seq., which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Land shall be dedicated, reserved or easements provided in each
subdivision as specified in §§
155.040 et seq.,
155.065 et seq.,
155.090 et seq., and
155.125 et seq.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.043 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   Land which has been determined to pose an ascertainable danger to life
or property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the necessary measures to correct
the conditions and to eliminate the dangers on the basis of engineering or
other expert surveys have been taken.
   (B)   Areas previously used for disposal of solid waste, construction
debris, appliances and the like shall not be subdivided until site the has been
brought into compliance with the requirements of state local health and
environmental agencies and have been determined by the appropriate design
professional to be suitable for the purpose proposed.
   (C)   Areas previously used for surface or sub-surface mining or quarrying
shall not be subdivided unless determined by appropriate state and local
environmental agencies, health agencies and design professionals to be suitable
for the use proposed, poses no threat to life, property or public safety.
   (D)   Where a parcel proposed to be subdivided adjoins a parcel with any of
the conditions described in divisions (A), (B), or (C) above, the parcel shall
be tested to assure that conditions on the adjoining property will pose no
threat to life or property or public safety and will have no impact on the
proposed subdivision.
   (E)   Areas of a project that are located within a floodplain or special
flood hazard area shall not be subdivided, except as provided in Chapter 153.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.044 SOILS.
   (A)   A subdivision with 5 or more lots or any subdivision requesting a
reduction in minimum lot size (see §
155.097(B)(7)) shall provide the following information at the time of
preliminary subdivision plat application:
      (1)   A soil map and soil evaluation of the subdivision site, prepared by
a soil scientist registered in North Carolina, showing:
         (a)   All wetlands or hydric soils on this site; and
         (b)   All areas suitable for the location of on-site septic systems.
      (2)   A plan drawn to scale showing the soils information along with the
locations of:
         (a)   Proposed and existing buildings;
         (b)   Proposed and existing wells;
         (c)   Proposed and existing components of septic systems; and
         (d)   Proposed and existing driveway accesses.
   (B)   A subdivision with 4 or fewer lots shall:
      (1)   Provide the information required in division (A)(1) above; or
      (2)   Obtain a septic tank permit(s) after preliminary subdivision plat
approval.
   (C)   All lots within any subdivision (regardless of size or number of lots)
submitted for subdivision plat approval shall be staked with property lines
clearly identified.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.045 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   (1)   A property shall not be graded, cleared or otherwise changed
until:
         (a)   A preliminary subdivision plat has been approved;
         (b)   An evaluation has been made of the existing vegetation, slopes
and soils; and
         (c)   A sedimentation and erosion control plan has been approved by
the Department of Health and Natural Resources, Land Quality Section, if it is
required, or by Vance County at the time as a local ordinance is adopted, in
accordance with the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973.
      (2)   Cutting or clearing required for the purposes of soils evaluation
may be permitted where necessary. Cutting, clearing and grading for
agricultural purposes is exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Except for surplus top soils from roads, parking areas and building
excavation, resident top soil shall be used within the project.
   (C)   Grading shall be limited and natural vegetation preserved where
reasonably possible.
   (D)   Disruption of the natural sheet flow of storm water shall be minimized
to the greatest extent practicable.
   (E)   Natural vegetation within 30 feet of existing drainage, natural
creeks, rivers, natural springs or ponds shall be left intact. These surface
features shall not be altered except for necessary bank stabilization and no
fill shall be allowed in water features or natural flood plains.
   (F)   (1)   A development greater than 1 acre shall not be altered or create
erosion, drainage or runoffs on its own or adjacent properties.
      (2)   A grading or drainage plan, if required, shall be prepared by a
design professional as is allowed by North Carolina General Statutes. For sites
1 acre or less, grading or erosion control plans may be approved by the
Planning Department.
   (G)   Final clearing, grading and drainage shall be in compliance and
consistent with the North Carolina International Building Codes, for general
construction, the North Carolina International Residential Code for 1- and for
2-family residential construction, local codes and ordinances. Building sites
shall be located such that water will be diverted away from structure(s) and
will not pond or accumulate under or around structure(s). Lots shall be graded,
landscaped and have a suitable vegetative cover.
   (H)   No banks shall be created or modified in the development with a slope
steeper than 1-foot rise to 4-foot run. If existing non-compliant slopes or
banks along natural waterways are left undisturbed, unaltered and the water
flow is not increased, they are not required to be re-graded unless unusual
conditions exist, as is determined by the Planning Department.
   (I)   Grading at all intersections shall include provisions for vehicular
site distance.
   (J)   Grading of individual driveways shall not divert water to roadways or
adjoining properties.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.046 EROSION CONTROL AND SEDIMENTATION MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Clearing, grading or other land disturbance activities on areas
greater than 1 acre must have the required erosion and sedimentation plans
filed with the Department of Health and Natural Resources, Land Quality Section
(and/or with Vance County at the time as a local ordinance is adopted) at the
same time as the preliminary subdivision plat submittal.
   (B)   Land disturbance activities on lots of 1 acre or less may require an
erosion control plan if determined necessary by the Vance County Planning
Department based on site conditions or unusual circumstances. Construction or
building permits shall not be issued until required erosion control plans and
measures are in place.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 307)
§ 155.047 WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION.
   All subdivisions located either partially or totally within the boundaries
of an identified watershed protection area shall conform to the requirements of
Chapter 154.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.048 FLOODPLAINS.
   All subdivisions located either partially or totally within the boundaries
of a floodplain shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 153 (FEMA based).
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.049 NATURAL VEGETATION PRESERVATION AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Natural vegetation or landscaping is necessary to promote attractive
development, to provide a visual and audio buffers between uses, to protect and
preserve water quality, to prevent erosion and sedimentation, to preserve the
appearance and character of the surrounding area and to delineate, define and
separate vehicular and pedestrian passageways within a subdivision.
   (B)   The developer shall include existing mature trees and natural plant
materials in the design of the subdivision to the greatest extent feasible. All
banks and open areas shall be landscaped with grass or other suitable plant
materials where defined by the Department of Health and Natural Resources, Land
Division, to prevent erosion.
   (C)   Buffer easements shall be constructed in compliance with and as
required by §
155.046. If entrances to a subdivision are to be landscaped, the following
conditions shall be met.
      (1)   Any landscaping within public road right-of-way shall be approved
by the NCDOT.
      (2)   All dead or damaged planted materials shall be replaced for a 1-
year period.
   (D)   No plant materials exceeding mature height of 36 inches shall be
planted within any vehicular sight triangle.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.050 INSTALLATION, ALTERATION AND USE OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. Plumbing fixtures, and sewage disposal systems shall
conform to all applicable codes and regulations.
      (1)   No property owner shall allow the connection of any other dwelling
to the utilities of his or her lot.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide individual utility connections for
each lot within the subdivision. Each subdivision lot shall be provided a
connection to a power supply, a connection to an approved water supply and a
connection to an approved sewage waste disposal system.
      (3)   All utilities shall be installed underground, except where extreme
geographic or conditions of topography make this requirement unreasonable.
Where subdivision consists of all oversized lots and deed restrictions or
zoning prevent further re-subdivision, a subdivision may be submitted for
consideration to the Planning Board for approval of above ground utility
services.
      (4)   All major above ground utility equipment, other than individual lot
service equipment, shall be located at the rear of side lot lines (corner lots
only) or along side lot lines. No above ground utility equipment shall be
installed at intersections and/or within the required vehicular sight distance;
except for traffic signalization equipment.
      (5)   Easement for and the installation of all underground utilities
shall be coordinated to minimize land disturbance and to minimize conflict
during construction.
      (6)   Placement of utilities shall comply with the North Carolina
Building Codes.
      (7)   No permit for the construction of or placement of a building shall
be issued in a subdivision until:
         (a)   A water supply system has been installed and approved (except
individual wells); and
         (b)   A sewage disposal system has been installed and approved (except
individual septic tanks).
      (8)   No building within a subdivision shall be occupied until:
         (a)   A connection to a power supply is complete;
         (b)   A connection to an approved water system is complete;
         (c)   A connection to an approved sewage system is complete; and
         (d)   All required inspections are completed and final approvals
given.
   (B)   Potable water. There shall be a safe, adequate, continuous and
conveniently located potable water supply provided for each lot within a
subdivision. Potable water supply shall be in compliance with the applicable
edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
      (1)   (a)   If the development is to be located within 300 feet of a
public water system, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used
exclusively, except where extreme geographic or topographic conditions make
this requirement unreasonable.
         (b)   Where a subdivision consists of all oversized lots, and deed
restrictions or zoning prevent further re-subdivision; the subdivision may be
submitted for consideration to the Vance County Planning Board for waiver of
connection to a public water system. There shall be no cross-connections
between public and private water systems.
      (2)   When a public water system is not available or where capacity (and/
or line size) is not sufficient for extension, individual wells, shared wells
or community wells shall be installed, inspected, tested, approved and
maintained in accordance with the most current “Rules Governing the Protection
of Private Water Supplies,” § .1700 of the North Carolina Administrative Code,
“Rules Governing the Sanitation of Protection of Water Supplies, T15A NCAC
18A.1700 of the North Carolina Administrative Code,” “Well Construction
Standards,” Subchapter 2C, § .0100, and other applicable state regulations and
guidelines.
      (3)   Dry lines may be required to be installed where public water
supplies are anticipated soon after completion of the project.
   (C)   Applications for public water supplies. Applications for public water
supplies for new subdivisions shall contain:
      (1)   Calculations showing the maximum daily water usage of the
development shall be submitted;
      (2)   A certification shall be provided that the public water system will
provide water to the development;
      (3)   Oversized lines may be required to be installed with the
participation of the City of Henderson or with the participation of Vance
County;
      (4)   Design standards, installation, connections and approvals of all
components of the water system shall be as required by the public water system;
and
      (5)   Fire hydrants, where required, shall be installed in compliance
with the North Carolina administrative, building, plumbing and fire codes,
local fire department requirements and other applicable local ordinances and
standards.
   (D)   Wells; generally.
      (1)   There shall be no subdivision of any parcel of land nor any parcel
offered as a gift, for sale or lease where ground already contains contaminants
in excess of state standards unless the applicant submits evidence of how water
quality will be improved or treated, the source identified and resolved.
      (2)   A 100-foot contaminate free zone must be maintained around private
or community wells.
      (3)   Dry hydrants may be required in areas near large bodies of water to
facilitate fire protection to the development.
   (E)   Shared wells, community wells or community water systems.
      (1)   Calculations showing the maximum capacity of the water system shall
be submitted along with calculations showing the maximum daily water usage of
the development.
      (2)   Where shared wells or community wells are to be employed a written,
perpetual agreement shall be recorded specifying:
         (a)   That the water supply to each lot is a permanent supply;
         (b)   Which party(ies) will have responsibility for the physical and
financial maintenance of the community water system;
         (c)   That each property owner shall have adequate assurances of a
continued water supply and have immediate remedial action should maintenance or
supply be discontinued for any reason; and
         (d)   The frequency and specifications of well testing.
   (F)   Private individual wells.
      (1)   Where individual septic tanks are to be used in conjunction with
private individual wells, the approximate, proposed location of the well for
each lot shall be shown. The purpose is to show the proposed proximity from
proposed well sites to proposed sewage waste disposal systems.
      (2)   No subdivision of an existing lot or lots shall be allowed where an
individual well would be separated from the structure it serves; except where
the well is to become a shared well or community well (see Community Water
Systems above). No existing lot shall be reduced in size such that compliance
with respect to any development, health or safety requirements cannot be met.
   (G)   Sanitary facilities. Each lot within an approved subdivision shall be
provided with an adequate sewage disposal system. The use of pit privies or
portable toilets (beyond construction phase) are specifically not permitted
within a subdivision. All sewage waste from toilets, showers, bathtubs,
lavatories, wash basins, refrigerator drains, sinks, faucets and water-using
appliances not herein mentioned shall be piped into an approved sewage disposal
system.
      (1)   If the development is to be located within 300 feet of a public
sewage system, connection shall be made thereto and used exclusively; except
where extreme geographic or topographic conditions make this requirement
unreasonable or where there is a necessity for crossing a ridge line so that
pumping of wastes would be necessary.
      (2)   When a public sewer system is not available or where capacity (and/
or line size) is not sufficient for extension, a private sewage system or an
individual septic tank system shall be constructed, inspected, approved and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the N.C. Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources and with the regulations of the Vance
County Board of Health.
      (3)   Dry lines may be required to be installed where public sewer
installation is anticipated after completion of the project.
   (H)   Public sewer.
      (1)   Calculations showing the maximum daily effluent generated by the
proposed development shall be submitted.
      (2)   A certification shall be provided that the public sewage system
will allow connection and provide service to the development.
      (3)   Oversized lines may be required to be installed with the
participation of the City of Henderson or with the participation of Vance
County.
      (4)   Design standards, installation, connections and approvals of all
components of the sewer system shall be as required by the public sewer system.
   (I)   Private Community Waste Disposal System. Private or community sewage
systems shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from all existing wells and
proposed wells in future subdivision phases. No underground utilities, roads,
recreation areas or structures shall be located in drainage field or
replacement drainage fields for the system.
      (1)   No existing lot shall be reduced in size such that compliance with
respect to any development, health or safety requirements cannot be met. For
lots with existing private community waste disposal systems, evaluations of
systems are based on the number, size, configuration and soil types of the
existing lots. Changes could render the evaluation, subsequent permit and
approval invalid.
      (2)   Private Community Waste Disposal Systems may be installed on land
held by a Home Owner's Association where installation, maintenance and
replacement is in the form of a written, recorded perpetual agreement and with
the agreement of the Vance County Public Health Department and the State of
North Carolina.
   (J)   Individual Septic Tank and Drainage Field.
      (1)   No subdivision of an existing lot or lots shall be allowed where a
septic tank, drainage field or replacement drainage field would be separated
from the structure it serves. No existing lot shall be
reduced in size such that compliance with respect to any development, health or
safety requirements cannot be met. For lots with existing septic tanks,
evaluations of lots for septic tank installation are based on the size,
configuration and soil types of the existing lot. Changes to this lot size or
configuration could render the evaluation, subsequent permit and approval
invalid.
      (2)   A sewage system shall be installed on the lot it is intended to
serve; except individual septic tank systems may be installed on land held by a
Home Owner's Association where installation, maintenance and replacement is in
the form of a written, recorded perpetual agreement and with the agreement of
the Vance County Public Health Department and the State of North Carolina.
   (K)   Natural gas. Extension and installation of natural gas lines to
subdivisions is encouraged in areas of the county where natural gas is
available.
   (L)   Solid waste disposal. The storage, collection and disposal of solid
waste shall be so conducted as to comply with state regulations and create no
health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, safety or fire hazards
or pollution.
      (1)   Construction debris, stumps or other similar materials shall not be
buried within a subdivision or be left on:
         (a)   A lot;
         (b)   A road (public or private) or an easement used for access to
lots; and/or
         (c)   A common area within a subdivision.
      (2)   (a)   The developer shall be held responsible for storage,
collection and disposal of all construction debris within the subdivision. The
responsibility for compliance shall not be transferred to another person.
         (b)   However, the developer may require sub-contractors to provide
dumpsters for construction debris.
      (3)   The owner of each lot within a subdivision shall be held
responsible for the proper storage, collection and disposal of solid waste.
   (M)   Fire hydrants. (See division (C)(5) above.) Dry hydrants may be
required in areas near large bodies of water to facilitate fire protection to
the development.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 312) Penalty, see §
10.99
ROAD STANDARDS; TRANSPORTATION, ROADWAY ACCESS AND CIRCULATION STANDARDS
§ 155.065 ROADS MUST MEET STANDARDS.
   Any extension of an existing road or any creation of a new road must meet or
exceed the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.066 MINOR SUBDIVISION ACCESS.
   Minor subdivision access shall be in compliance with §§
155.090 et seq.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.067 MAJOR SUBDIVISION ACCESS.
   Each lot in a major subdivision shall front on and have ingress from and
egress to a dedicated public road meeting the standards of §§
155.065 et seq., except as provided for in §
155.050(G).
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.2)
§ 155.068 PUBLIC OR PRIVATE ROADS DESIGNATED ON PLAT.
   Public or private roads within, abutting or adjacent to a proposed
subdivision shall be designated on the preliminary and final plats and shall be
arranged consistent with the use, character, extent, width, grade, proposed and
existing transportation patterns, topographical and natural features, shall
enhance public convenience and safety and shall be constructed and maintained
to the standards of this chapter, the minimum construction standard established
by the NC Department of Transportation or the standards of the American
Association of State Highway Officials. If there is a conflict between any of
these standards, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.069 EXTENSION OF PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   Any public road that is proposed to be extended shall be extended as a
public road and shall cause a subdivision application to become a major
subdivision and subject to the standards for major subdivisions contained in
this chapter.
   (B)   A full set of construction drawings, including, but not limited to,
right-of-way, roadway width, center line data, curve data, plan and profile
sheets, location of all proposed traffic control devices and drainage
structures shall be prepared by a professional engineer, or other design
professional as allowed by North Carolina General Statutes, submitted and
approved prior to commencing construction.
   (C)   The county shall have the option of contracting for the review of the
plans at the developer's expense or shall review plans with appropriate staff.
   (D)   Construction shall be inspected and certified by a professional
engineer, or other design professional allowed by North Carolina General
Statutes, as complying with NCDOT and/or Vance County specifications.
Laboratory test reports shall be submitted with 1 complete set of certified as-
built plans for roadway construction at the completion of construction. Permits
from the Vance County Planninq Office or the North Carolina Department of
Transportation for driveway, street, public or private connection to an
existing road system must be approved and issued prior to the issuance of
development permits.
   (E)   Construction and maintenance shall occur in accordance with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation Best Management Practices (BMP) and shall
occur in accordance with the North Carolina Erosion and Sedimentation Act of
1973 and subsequent amendments.
   (F)   In lieu of actual prior approved construction, construction assurances
as required in §§
155.145 et seq. shall be required before final plat approval.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.070 PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   Designation of any road on a plat as public road shall be conclusively
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public.
   (B)   Roads serving the general public and determined by the Planning Board
as through roads within a local road network shall be designated as public
roads.
   (C)   All lots within a subdivision shall abut a dedicated public road
except where the use of a private road is permitted in §§
155.040 et seq. or this subchapter, or permitted in accordance with the
provisions of §
155.073.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.5)
§ 155.071 PRIVATE ROADS BY TYPE.
   (A)   Generally. A private road shall be designated as existing, new or
extended, as described below, on a Minor-Subdivision Plat.
   (B)   Existing private roads. Private roads, the existence of which can be
established by documentary evidence, aerial photograph or judicial decree, are
existing private roads. The portion of the existing private road which serves
as frontage for new lots in the subdivision must meet or exceed the Class 1 or
Class 2 private road standards in §
155.072(G), (H), and (I).
   (C)   New private roads. New private roads within a proposed subdivision
that serve as frontage and/or access for lots must meet or exceed the Class 1
or Class 2 private road standards in §
155.072(G) and (H). A connecting private access road, if any exists, must meet
the Class 1 minimum private road standards of §§
155.040 et seq. and
155.065 et seq.
   (D)   Extended private roads. Extended private roads are considered to be
new private roads for the purpose of determining the required class of road.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.6)
§ 155.072 PRIVATE ROAD BY CLASS; PRIVATE ROADS AND PRIVATE ACCESS EASEMENTS BY
CLASS, RIGHT-OF-WAY, OWNERSHIP AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Disclaimer. The standards described herein are the minimum set forth
by Vance County. The county has not determined, and is not responsible for
determining, that these standards are adequate or appropriate for all
situations and uses by land owners. Roads not meeting NCDOT standards will not
be accepted by NCDOT until compliance is achieved.
   (B)   Ownership. A Class 1 or Class 2 private road right-of-way and the
improvements therein shall be held in common ownership (e.g., Home Owner's
Association) by those properties fronting on and/or having access to the road.
   (C)   Right-of-way width. Minimum right-of-way width required: 60 feet.
   (D)   Safe 2-way passage of traffic. All private roads and private access
easements shall be designed and constructed to permit the safe 2-way passage of
traffic based upon the appropriate construction standards for private roads as
shown in divisions (G) through (I) below.
   (E)   Safe intersection. The design, location and improvement of all private
roads and private access easements shall provide for safe intersection with
public and private roads; for safe passage of public service and emergency
vehicles; and protection of adjoining property.
   (F)   Obstacles. All private road and private access easement rights-of-way
shall be free and clear of obstacles, including vegetation, abandoned vehicles
and other similar objects.
   (G)   Class 1 private road.
      (1)   Maximum number of lots permitted to have access. None; and
      (2)   Construction standard. The road shall be constructed in accordance
with the North Carolina Department of Transportation - Subdivision Roads,
Minimum Construction Standards, except that no pavement is required.
   (H)   Class 2 private road.
      (1)   Maximum number of lots permitted to have access. Seven; and
      (2)   The road shall be constructed in accordance with the North Carolina
Department of Transportation - Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction
Standards, except that:
         (a)   No pavement is required;
         (b)   The minimum width of the road surface may be reduced to 16 feet;
and
         (c)   There shall be at least 1 shoulder 5 feet in width.
   (I)   Private access easement.
      (1)   Ownership. A private access easement and the improvements therein
may be held in:
         (a)   Common ownership (e.g., Home Owner's Association) by those
properties fronting on and/or having access to the road; or
         (b)   Individual ownership of the property owner of the lot of record
from which a minor subdivision is created, provided that the individual owner
shall be responsible for the construction and perpetual maintenance of the
access drive required to be constructed within the easement. (See §
155.093(C)(6) for maintenance documents required at time of minor subdivision
application.)
      (2)   Minimum right-of-way width required. Twenty-five feet;
      (3)   Maximum number of lots permitted to have access. Four; and
      (4)   Construction standard. An access drive shall be constructed in
accordance with this chapter above and:
         (a)   The minimum width of the access drive shall be 12 feet of
vehicular travel surface; and
         (b)   There shall be at least 1 stable shoulder 5 feet in width.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.073 PRIVATE ROADS ALLOWED.
   (A)   Permitted use of private roads within condominium, townhouse and gated
community development. The design, location and improvement of private roads
shall provide for safe intersection with public roads, safe passage of public
service and emergency vehicles and protection of adjoining parcels. Private
roads shall be permitted in major subdivisions on land held by a homeowners
association or where public access is restricted by means of a gate or
guardhouse.
      (1)   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the
homeowners association providing for 1 lot, 1 vote membership formula shall be
filed with the Planning Department.
      (2)   The governing covenants shall require the payment of periodic
assessments to the homeowner's association on no less than an annual basis and
shall be sufficient to maintain the private streets or roadways of the
subdivision. Delinquent unpaid assessments shall constitute a lien against the
assessed properties.
      (3)   Provisions shall be made for a school bus to enter subdivision,
turn around without backing up and exit in the shortest distance possible and a
letter of permission (wavier of liability) for the bus to enter and exit shall
be filed with and approved by the Superintendent of Schools. A copy of the
approval shall be filed the Planning Department.
      (4)   (a)   Provisions shall be made for postal delivery to enter
subdivision, turn around without backing up and exit in the shortest distance
possible and a letter of permission (wavier of liability) for the bus to enter
and exit shall be filed with and approved by the Postal Service.
         (b)   A copy of the approval shall be filed the Planning Department.
Postal delivery locations shall not be within the public right-of-way, within a
vehicular sight triangle or impede the flow of traffic into or out of the
subdivision.
   (B)   Other permitted use of private roads. The Planning Board may approve
construction and use of private roads where:
      (1)   An existing, new or extended private road included as part of a
proposed subdivision cannot serve as part of a through road within a local road
network because physio-geographical characteristics or other intervening
manmade characteristics make it impractical or unreasonable to extend the
public roads to connect to adjoining roads or land;
      (2)   There will be fewer than 2 lots for each 1/10 of a mile of road and
deed restrictions or zoning prevent further re-subdivision;
      (3)   A road is less than 2/10 of a mile, serves fewer than 4 lots and
deed restrictions or zoning prevent further re-subdivision;
      (4)   A cul-de-sac is less than 2/10 of a mile, serves fewer than 4 lots
and deed restrictions or zoning prevent further re-subdivision;
      (5)   A subdivision access road is less than 1 mile and provides ingress
and egress for fewer than 5 lots;
      (6)   A subdivision access road is over 1 mile in length and provides
ingress and egress for fewer than an average of 5 lots per mile. A subdivision
access road is a road built through vacant property to provide access to the
property being developed. This road would not have lots platted along it.
(NCDOT definition); or
      (7)   All adjoining land has been previously developed and the proposed
subdivision does not:
         (a)   Provide access to adjoining property;
         (b)   Create any new or residual parcels which do not satisfy the
requirements of this chapter or other applicable local and state controls;
         (c)   Involve the extension of public sewerage or water lines or the
creation of new drainage easements; and
         (d)   Create lots or locate a road entirely or substantially in a
flood hazard area as defined by Chapter 153.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.8.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.074 PRIVATE ROAD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The minimum standards for private roads are as follows.
   (B)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   The design, location, maintenance and improvement of private roads
shall provide for safe intersection with public roads, safe passage of public
service and emergency vehicles and protection of adjoining parcels.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant shall submit proposed agreements or covenants
ensuring continued use and maintenance of any existing, platted or proposed
private roads by landowners served by the roads.
         (b)   These agreements will specify how responsibility for road
maintenance will be apportioned among the landowners served, and will provide
enforcement rights for the maintenance agreement.
      (3)   For all subdivisions with Class 1 or Class 2 private roads, a full
set of construction drawings, including, but not limited to, right-of-way width
and location, roadway width, center line data, curve data, plan and profile
sheets, location of all proposed traffic control devices and drainage
structures, shall be prepared by a professional engineer, or other design
professional as allowed by North Carolina General Statutes, submitted and
approved prior to commencing construction.
      (4)   The county shall have the option of contracting for the review of
the plans at the developer's expense or shall review plans with appropriate
staff.
      (5)   Construction shall be inspected and certified by a professional
engineer, or other design professional allowed by North Carolina General
Statutes, as complying with Vance County and/or NCDOT specifications.
Laboratory test reports shall be submitted with 1 complete set of certified as-
built plans for roadway construction at the completion of construction.
      (6)   Construction and maintenance shall occur in accordance with the
North Carolina Department of Transportation Best Management Practices (BMP) and
shall occur in accordance with the North Carolina Erosion and Sedimentation Act
of 1973 and subsequent amendments.
      (7)   In lieu of actual prior approved construction, construction
assurances as required in §§
155.145 et seq. shall be required before final plat approval.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.075 STANDARDS FOR ALL ROADS.
   (A)   Coordination with existing road system. The proposed road layout
within a subdivision shall be coordinated with the existing and proposed road
network within the surrounding area (as established on the adopted Thoroughfare
Plan for Vance County and the road layout within existing and approved
subdivisions in the general area), including the extension and interconnection
of roads between adjacent properties where appropriate to the development of a
local road network.
   (B)   Access to adjacent properties or future phases.
      (1)   (a)   All roads providing access to adjoining property shall be
located so as to best ensure the safe, convenient and efficient movement of
traffic within a local road network as well as the orderly development of
adjacent properties.
         (b)   All dead end private roads must terminate in a cul-de-sac for
turning around of emergency equipment.
      (2)   Where an adjoining property gains access through the property
contained in the proposed minor subdivision to a public road, this access shall
be:
         (a)   Included in the private road right-of-way which shall be
conforming with the lines of the existing easements;
         (b)   The original access may be abandoned and an alternative access
easement, which follows a new private road alignment, dedicated and recorded;
and
         (c)   The lots shall be counted toward the number of lots permitted on
a Class 1 or Class 2 private road.
   (C)   Reserve strips and non-access reservations. Reserve strips or non-
access reservations that control access to roads, waterways, parks or the like,
and other reserved strips shall be permitted only if their purpose, location,
dimensions and manner of control is approved by the Planning Board.
   (D)   Access to major thoroughfares. Subject to the restrictions in §§
155.040 et seq. and
155.065 et seq., direct driveway access from minor subdivision lots shall be
permitted to and from numbered NCDOT (public) roads in Vance County except for
those roads identified as Interstate Highway, Principal Arterial, Minor
Arterial, Major Collector, and Minor Collector roads in the Thoroughfare Plan
for Vance County and the table below.
NCDOT (Public) Roadways Not Permitting Direct Access
NCDOT (Public) Roadways Not Permitting Direct Access
Interstate Highways I-85
                    US 1/158 north from the Henderson city limits to Warren
Principal Arterials County
                    US 1 bypass south from the Henderson city limits to
                    Franklin County
Minor Arterials     NC 39 south from the Henderson city limits to Franklin
                    County
                    US 158 Bus. west from the Henderson city limits to
                    Granville County
                    US158 bypass west from the Henderson city limits to
Major Collectors    Granville County
                    US 1 Business north and south from the Henderson city
                    limits to US 1 north and south
                    NC 39 north from the Henderson city limits to the Virginia
                    state border
 
   (E)   Road names.
      (1)   A road name shall be assigned to any private road or private access
easement which provides vehicular access to 2 or more parcels.
      (2)   Any proposed road which is in alignment with an existing road shall
be given the same name.
      (3)   All private roads and private access easements shall have the
suffix “lane.”
      (4)   New road names shall not duplicate or closely approximate the names
of existing or reserved subdivisions, apartment complexes, mobile home parks,
roads, lanes, drives or streets within the county, within municipalities in the
county, or in adjoining counties within one mile of Vance County.
      (5)   New street names shall be approved by the Planning Board at the
time of plat final approval and addressing will be assigned by Emergency
Operations Offices.
      (6)   Street names should be simple, use the most common spelling and may
not exceed 15 characters in length.
   (F)   Half streets. Where there exists a half-street along a common property
line in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be provided by the
proposed subdivision.
   (G)   Direct access to adjoining major thoroughfare. If alternative access
from a road of lower classification is possible, no direct access shall be
allowed to an adjoining major thoroughfare unless permitted by NCDOT and
approved by the Planning Board.
   (H)   Separation of access points along adjoining major thoroughfare.
Driveways and/or intersecting roads from an adjacent subdivision to a major
thoroughfare shall be separated in accordance with NCDOT or Vance County
standards, whichever is the more restrictive.
   (I)   Major thoroughfare right-of-way dedication or reservation.
      (1)   Dedication of right-of-way abutting existing major thoroughfare
roads. A subdivision abutting an existing major thoroughfare road shall include
dedication of any additional right-of-way along the site's frontage on the
major thoroughfare that is needed to widen the right-of way to at least 1/2 the
minimum right-of-way shown in Table D-1 of the Thoroughfare Plan for Vance
County but in no case less than 35 feet from the centerline of the roadway.
      (2)   Proposed new thoroughfares.
         (a)   Incorporation of thoroughfare, if:
            1.   The Thoroughfare Plan for Vance County proposes a new major
thoroughfare across part of a subdivision site;
            2.   An alignment for the thoroughfare has been determined to a
reasonable degree of certainty (for example, as a centerline alignment on a
functional design plan); and
            3.   The thoroughfare could appropriately serve to provide direct
access to the subdivision; then the subdivision shall be classified as a major
subdivision, comply with the requirements of §§
155.040 et seq.,
155.065 et seq.,
155.090 et seq., and
155.125 et seq., and incorporate the major thoroughfare into its internal road
layout with 1 of the subdivision roads along the proposed thoroughfare
alignment constructed to NCDOT standards for a residential collector road.
         (b)   1.   Reservation of future right-of-way, if:
               a.   The Thoroughfare Plan for Vance County proposes a new major
thoroughfare, other than one defined in division (I)(2)(a)1. above, across part
of a subdivision site;
               b.   An alignment for the thoroughfare has been determined to a
reasonable degree of certainty; and
               c.   The subdivision shall include dedication of the
thoroughfare's future right-of-way.
            2.   Land area needed as future right-of-way shall be determined
from NCDOT plans or otherwise by applying half the right-of-way width
recommended in the Thorouqhfare Plan for Vance County along each side of the
thoroughfare's proposed centerline alignment.
         (c)   If neither division (I)(2)(a) or (I)(2)(b) above applies, no
incorporation or reservation of a future right-of-way for a proposed major
thoroughfare across a proposed minor subdivision is required. The Planning
Board may not delay final approval of a particular subdivision plan for failure
to comply with division (I)(2)(b) above for more than 3 years after the date
the application for plan approval has been accepted by the Planning Department
as complete.
      (3)   Record plat notice of future right-of-way. A Thoroughfare Plan
recommending the widening of an existing major thoroughfare abutting a
subdivision site, or proposing a new major thoroughfare across part of a
subdivision site, the recorded plat shall include notice of such. If the area
needed for the planned widening or construction for a new thoroughfare can be
ascertained with a reasonable degree of certainty, the record plat shall
delineate it and label it as future right-of-way.
   (J)   Road design in water supply watersheds.
      (1)   All proposed roads shall follow topographical contours of the site
as closely as possible.
      (2)   Curb and gutter shall be prohibited.
      (3)   New roads shall be designed and constructed to divert storm-water
runoff away from directly draining into surface water supply waters and shall
utilize watershed Best Management Practices.
   (K)   Subdivision street; disclosure statement.
      (1)   The right-of-way of any new road or change in any existing road
shall be delineated on a subdivision plat and shall be designated either public
or private in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
      (2)   Any road designated on a plat as public shall be conclusively
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public and shall meet applicable
NCDOT standards.
      (3)   A certification designating each road as either public or private
shall be affixed to the face of the recorded plat in accordance with §
155.069(B). Private roads required to be built to NCDOT standards but not
eligible because of too few lots or residences shall be dedicated to the public
and shall meet the standards in this chapter.
   (L)   Subdivision access and entrance roads.
      (1)   Access shall be consolidated wherever possible.
      (2)   Supporting data verifying the capacity and safety of the access
from a public to a private road shall be submitted and approved.
      (3)   Private road and private access easement entrances to a subdivision
shall be a minimum of 300 feet from the intersection of 2 public roads and
access points shall be a minimum of 200 feet apart.
      (4)   All entrances shall conform with the NCDOT “Policy on Street and
Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways.”
   (M)   Driveway permits. DOT approval of the location of an individual lot
driveway entrance to a public or private road or a private access easement
shall be received prior to the issuance of a development permit.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum distance of 150 feet between an individual
driveway and a private road or private access easement entrance to the
subdivision.
      (2)   A individual lot driveway entrance shall be located a minimum
distance of 150 feet from the intersection of 2 roads within a subdivision.
      (3)   There shall be a minimum of 550 feet clear sight distance for any
driveway providing access onto a public road unless the road has a posted speed
of 45 mph or lower or a design speed of 50 mph or lower in which case the
“Desirable Stopping Site Distance” as shown in Table D-5 of the “Thoroughfare
Plan For Vance County” shall be required.
   (N)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect with angles of 75 to 90 degrees. Under
extreme conditions, intersections with angles from 60 to 75 degrees may be
acceptable when approved by the NCDOT District Engineer and must adhere to the
design standards of the NCDOT Policy on Street and Driveway Access.
      (2)   Where intersections cannot be aligned, the centerlines of the
streets shall be offset by a minimum length of 200 feet.
      (3)   All streets crossing natural areas, wetlands or stream buffers must
cross at or as near to 90 degrees as possible.
      (4)   The grade on stop streets approaching an intersection shall not
exceed 5% for a distance of not less than 100 feet from the centerline of the
intersection. Under extreme conditions, grades of less than 1/2% or in excess
of 5% may be acceptable and are to be submitted for consideration to the NCDOT
District Engineer.
      (5)   An intersection shall not include more than 4 road approaches.
   (O)   Alleys. Except where necessitated by unusual circumstances, alleys
shall not be provided. If provided, they shall be constructed within an access
easement of at least a 25 feet width and connect with roads or provide adequate
turn around improvements at the end of the alley.
   (P)   Permits for connection to public roads. An approved permit is required
for connection to any existing NCDOT state system road. This permit is required
prior to the construction of a private road or private access easement. The
application is available at the office of the District Engineer of the Division
of Highways. All permit applications shall be in conformance with NCDOT,
“Policy on Street and Driveway Access.”
   (Q)   Offset to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadways shoulders, preferably a minimum of at least 30 feet
from the centerline of the road, based on standard 60-foot right-of-way. On
streets with curb and gutter, utility poles shall be set back a minimum
distance of 16 feet from the face of curb.
   (R)   Handicap access and wheel chair ramps. All street curbs being
constructed or reconstructed for maintenance purposes, traffic operations,
repairs, correction of utilities, or altered for any reason, shall include
provisions for the physically handicapped in conformance with G.S. § 136-44.14,
the NCBC Volume 1-C (Handicap) and the NCDOT standards at intersections where
both curb and gutter and sidewalks are provided and at other major points of
pedestrian flow.
   (S)   Street and lot lighting. Subdivisions with lots of 20,000 square feet
or less and/or any other proposed street lighting require a unified street
lighting system. All residential street lighting and all lighting on lots shall
be shielded.
   (T)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be not be required or permitted
unless the continuity of previous street work necessitates curb and gutter.
Where curb and gutter is unavoidable, the construction shall be in conformance
with NCDOT standards.
   (U)   Vehicular sight distance easements. Triangular sight distance
easements shall remain free of all structures, trees, shrubbery, driveways and
signs, except traffic-control signs, and shall be shown in dashed lines at all
street intersections and so noted on the subdivision plat. Final determination
of the location and extent of sight distance easements will be made by the
jurisdiction in cooperation with the NCDOT District Engineer. Generally:
      (1)   Property lines at intersections shall be rounded with the following
radii: private roads with private roads - 20 feet; and
      (2)   A vehicular sight triangle per NCDOT “Policy on Street and Driveway
Access to North Carolina Highways.”
   (V)   Islands or short medians at subdivision entrances. Approval of
proposals for islands or medians at private road entrances shall be on an
individual basis by the Division Engineer and shall conform to the NCDOT -
“Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards” and approval will be with
the following understanding.
      (1)   The Division of Highways will not maintain the island or median
section.
      (2)   The island or the median section will be removed if it is not
properly maintained.
      (3)   The minimum lane width at the entrances, excluding curb and gutter
will be 14 feet.
   (W)   Traffic-control signs.
      (1)   The NCDOT District Engineer shall be responsible for the review and
approval of plans for traffic-control signs and devices for private roads
within the subdivision and may require additional signs in the interest of
public safety. The number, placement and quantity for traffic-control signs
shall conform to the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).”
      (2)   The county shall be responsible for the acquisition and
installation of all traffic-control signs.
      (3)   The developer shall be responsible for the costs of signs and the
costs for installing the signs. The costs for the signs and installation shall
be included in the fee schedule. These costs shall be calculated and shall be
payable upon preliminary plat approval.
      (4)   The proposed construction schedule should reflect the time of
installation of traffic and street naming signs, and the locations shall be
staked by the surveyor in accordance with the construction schedule. The
developer shall have the responsibility to coordinate installation with the
county.
   (X)   Street naming signs. The county shall be responsible for the
acquisition and installation of all street naming signs. The cost of signs and
installations shall be included in the fee schedule and shall be payable upon
preliminary plat approval.
   (Y)   Guard rails. No banks or slopes within a public right-of-way directly
adjacent to a minor subdivision or within a private road right-of-way shall
have a slope steeper than 1 foot rise to 4 foot run. Within reason, pre-
existing non-conforming slopes shall be brought into conformance. Slopes at or
steeper than 1 foot rise in 2 foot run shall be protected by a guardrail along
the shoulder of the road.
   (Z)   Break-away posts. All traffic signs, street naming signs, mail boxes
or other similar objects installed on posts located within the right-of-way
shall be installed with break-away posts.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 313.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.090 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Vance County Planning Board has the right and responsibility to
review, and require revisions to, any proposed subdivision plat.
   (B)   The purpose of this review is to:
      (1)   Relieve demonstrable adverse impacts of the development upon public
safety, health or welfare;
      (2)   Determine that adequate and sustainable utilities and services are
available for the development;
      (3)   Protect public investments in roads, drainage facilities, sewage
facilities and public water supplies;
      (4)   Preserve the value of land and development; and
      (5)   Assure that the regulations of Vance County are upheld.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 401)
§ 155.091 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
155.090 et seq. is to establish the procedure for review of and action on
subdivisions and certain standards for the development of minor subdivisions.
The procedure is intended to provide orderly and expeditious processing of
subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 402)
§ 155.092 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of any construction, including clearing and
grading for a proposed subdivision or the expansion of an existing subdivision,
a minor subdivision plat shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter, reviewed and approved by the Vance County Planning Board.
   (B)   No permits of any kind shall be issued on a lot within a subdivision
until a final plat is approved by the Vance County Planning Board.
   (C)   No lots may be sold or building permits issued until a subdivision
plat has been recorded with the Vance County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 403)
§ 155.093 PRIVATE ROAD AND PRIVATE ACCESS EASEMENT CONSTRUCTION PLAN SUBMITTAL,
REVIEW, CONSTRUCTION, INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Approval required. A subdivision plat approved with a requirement for
a Class 1 or Class 2 private road shall not be signed by the authorized
Planning Agent or Planning Board Chairperson or filed with or recorded by the
Vance County Register of Deeds until:
      (1)   Construction plans prepared by a professional engineer or other
design professional as allowed by North Carolina General Statutes has been
submitted for review and approved by the county in accordance with §§
155.065 et seq. and other applicable provisions of this article; and
      (2)   Any plans meeting the standards of this subchapter have been
reviewed and approved by Vance County; and
      (3)   Any private road improvements have been constructed and inspected,
and approved by Vance County in accordance with this subchapter; or
      (4)   A financial surety to guarantee the completion of required
construction is provided in accordance with the provisions of §§
155.145 et seq.
   (B)   Minor subdivision with private access easement. A minor subdivision
plat approved with a requirement for a private access easement shall not be
signed by the authorized Planning Agent or Planning Board Chairperson or filed
with or recorded by the Vance County Register of Deeds until:
      (1)   Permanent vehicular access improvements meeting the standards of §§
155.065 et seq., and other applicable standards of §§
155.065 et seq., are constructed and are certified as constructed by the
applicant/subdivider; or
      (2)   A financial surety is provided in accordance with the provisions of
§§
155.145 et seq.
   (C)   Construction plan review; detailed construction plan submittal, review
and authorization to proceed requirements. After the Planning Board has given
approval to a subdivision plat, the applicant is authorized to prepare detailed
construction plans for roadway and other improvements if appropriate.
      (1)   Information required for construction plan submittal. The
construction plan submittal shall include all required materials specified in
this chapter.
      (2)   Review of construction plans.
         (a)   The Planning Department shall review the plans to determine that
the construction plans are in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and
the requirements of this chapter. The Planning Department may forward copies of
the construction plan submittal to the Technical Review Committee and to other
appropriate state and local agencies for review and recommendations.
         (b)   Following this joint review, the authorized Planning Agent
shall, in writing, approve the construction plan submittal as proposed, approve
the plan with conditions or modifications, or in the case of major deficiencies
disapprove the submittal. If the submittal is disapproved, reasons for
disapproval shall be stated in writing, and the subdivider may correct any
deficiencies and submit a revised construction plan for approval.
            1.   The authorized Planning Agent shall return 1 copy of the
construction plan submittal, the recommendations of state and local agencies,
and his or her decision to the subdivider, retaining 1 copy of each of the
documents.
            2.   If the construction plan submittal is complete and is in
accordance with the approved preliminary plan and the requirements of this
chapter, the authorized Planning Agent will authorize the subdivider to proceed
with construction. The intent of this authorization is to enable the execution
of the approved plat and construction plans in the field and shall not be
construed to entitle the recipient to offer any lot for sale.
            3.   The authorization to proceed, once approved, may be revoked,
if there has been alteration of the site or soil conditions, changes to the
proposed facility or document falsification causing revocation of the permit.
            4.   Upon the approval of the construction plan submitted, the
subdivider may prepare a record plat. The subdivider may also begin to install
the roads, utilities and other improvements in accordance with the approved
construction plans and requirements and other state and local laws. Approval of
a construction plan under this subchapter shall be valid for a period of 6
months and will not be invalidated by any changes and amendments to the Vance
County ordinances. Projects may be phased for construction purposes, however,
compliance shall be achieved in each phase and other requirements are met.
      (3)   Construction progress prerequisite.
         (a)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence
in a proposed subdivision until the construction plan has been approved, and
all plans and specifications have been approved and signed by the appropriate
authorities.
         (b)   No building or other permit shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter or
created in compliance with this chapter until all requirements of applicable
state and local laws have been met.
      (4)   Completion of improvements. An improvement is deemed completed when
certified to have been installed in accordance with the approved plat and
construction plan by the appropriate agency.
      (5)   Platting before completion of improvements; disclosure statement.
         (a)   If all required improvements are not completed before the record
plat is presented for recordation, the plat may be accepted, approved and
recorded if it includes a statement disclosing the status of any uncompleted
improvements. Failure to complete the required improvements by the scheduled
completion date set forth in the construction schedule will result in the
suspension of any permits for more than 50% of the lots shown on the recorded
plat. Certificates of occupancy shall not be issued for any lot until all
required water supply and sewage disposal improvements serving the lot have
been completed and are fully functional. The construction schedule shall
indicate when construction or installation of each uncompleted improvement will
be completed. The schedule shall be subject to the Planning Department
approval.
         (b)   The disclosure statement shall include the subdivider's signed
and notarized acknowledgment that:
            1.   The subdivider is responsible for the construction or
installation of all required improvements in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat and construction plan and the schedule contained in this
statement; and
            2.   The subdivider will provide the prospective buyer of any lot
shown on the final plat with written disclosure of:
               a.   The subdivider's responsibility and schedule for completing
required improvements;
               b.   This section's provisions regarding the withholding of
building permits and certificates of occupancy pending completion of required
improvements; and
               c.   Any inquiries concerning the subdivision's current status
concerning the completion of required improvements and the withholding of
building permits and certificates of occupancy pending completion of required
improvements.
      (6)   Improvements to be maintained.
         (a)   The record plat shall include the subdivider’s signed and
notarized acknowledgment that the subdivider is responsible for the maintenance
of all required improvements until the responsibility is assumed by a unit of
government, public utility, homeowners’ association, lot owner, or other legal
entity.
         (b)   The subdivider will provide the prospective buyer of any lot
shown on the record plat with written disclosure of:
            1.   The subdivider’s responsibility for maintaining required
improvements; and
            2.   This section’s provisions regarding the withholding of
building permits.
         (c)   The record plat shall also include a statement referencing any
inquiries about the application of this section's provisions.
      (7)   Construction inspection and administrative procedures. All
construction shall be in accordance with the approved plat, approved
construction plans and all applicable state and local laws.
         (a)   As the work pursuant to an approved plat and construction plans
progresses, the authorized Planning Agent is hereby authorized and directed to
make the inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with
this chapter and to the approved plat. It shall be the duty of the owner or his
or her authorized agent to give free access to the premises at reasonable times
for the purpose of inspection or other enforcement action.
         (b)   The Planning Agent may require test, test reports or specific
analysis as proof of compliance. Tests or analyses shall be performed at the
expense of the owner or his or her agent, and by an approved testing laboratory
or other approved testing laboratory or other approved agency or registered
design professional. Required test or analysis for code compliance is specified
in the NC technical codes.
         (c)   Upon completion of construction and the submittal of all
required documentation, the developer shall request a final inspection from
Planning Department. Upon determination of full compliance with all appropriate
specifications and regulations, the authorized planning agent shall issue a
certificate of compliance. If the development is to be built in phases, a
separate certificate of compliance will be issued for each phase of
development.
      (8)   Violations.
         (a)   Upon determination of violation of applicable state and local
laws, ordinances or other regulations, the Planning Agent shall give written
notice to the owner by certified or registered mail to the last known address
or by personal service, requiring the owner to remedy the deficiencies within
the period as the administrator may prescribe.
         (b)   Whenever a property is in violation of this chapter, the
Planning Agent may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop-work
order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work. The stop-
work order shall state the specific work to be stopped the specific reasons for
the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
         (c)   Upon determination of substantial departure from approved plans
and/or specifications; or for refusal or failure to comply with the
requirements applicable state or local ordinances, codes, laws, regulations; or
for making false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approvals; or any authorization to proceed mistakenly issued in violation this
or other applicable codes or regulations, the Planning Department shall revoke
the authorization to proceed.
         (d)   If the owner fails refuses to comply with an order to take
corrective action, he or she shall be subject to any and all remedies of the
law as assigned to the regulatory agency or as is determined by the court.
         (e)   Failure or refusal to comply with an order to take corrective
action and within the prescribed time period shall result in the suspension of
related permits and/or blocking issue of further permits as is determined by
the authorized planning agent.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.094 MINOR SUBDIVISION ROADS AND LOT ACCESS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Minor subdivision lot access. Notwithstanding access provisions
located elsewhere in this chapter, minor subdivision lots shall be permitted to
have direct access to:
      (1)   An existing public road, provided that the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   The public road is not a major thoroughfare listed in §
155.075;
         (b)   Site distance from a driveway for a minor subdivision shall meet
or exceed the requirements as is stated in Table D-5 in the “Thoroughfare Plan
For Vance County”;
         (c)   Driveways connecting to a public road shall be configured to
permit vehicles to leave the lot facing forward; and
         (d)   Cleared site triangle easements shall be provided on all lots
with direct access to a public road.
      (2)   An existing private road that meets the standards of this chapter;
      (3)   A Class 1 private road meeting the standards of this chapter;
      (4)   A Class 2 private road (accessed by seven or fewer lots) meeting
the standards of this chapter; or
      (5)   A private access easement (accessed by 4 or fewer lots) meeting the
standards of this chapter.
   (B)   Private road by type; existing or new. See §
155.071.
   (C)   Private road by class. See §
155.072.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 405)
§ 155.095 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   (A)   The purpose of these standards is to give voice to aspects of
development in Vance County and enhance the physical design, natural
topography, plant life, street hardware and other objects observed by the
public. These standards are not intended to restrict imagination, innovation or
variety, but to focus on the design principles which preserve taxable values,
and preserve natural resources to the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The landscape shall be preserved in its natural state insofar as
practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal. Any grade changes shall be in
keeping with the general appearance of neighboring developed areas. The
orientation of individual building sites shall be such as to maintain maximum
natural topography and cover. Topography, tree cover and natural drainage ways,
to the greatest extent possible, shall be treated as fixed determinants of road
and lot rather than as malleable elements.
   (C)   Roads shall be designed and located in such a manner as to maintain
and preserve natural topography, cover, significant landmarks and natural
vegetation; to minimize cut and fill; and to preserve and enhance views and
vistas on or off the subject parcel.
   (D)   Proposed development shall be related harmoniously to the terrain.
   (E)   The removal or disruption of historic, traditional or significant
uses, structures or architectural elements shall be minimized insofar as
practical, whether these exist on the site or on adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.096 IMPROVEMENTS, DEDICATIONS, EASEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this
subchapter, which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Land shall be dedicated, reserved or easements provided in each
subdivision as specified in this subchapter. Each subdivision shall adhere to
the minimum standards of design established by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 407) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.097 LOTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Every buildable lot created shall be capable of meeting the
standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Every lot created shall have an assured and approved water supply
and shall either have access to a public sewer or shall have the ability to
sustain a septic tank system.
      (3)   Every lot created shall have recorded permanent access to a public
road. No lot shall be created that is landlocked or that does not have
permanent ingress or egress to the property.
      (4)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the applicable zoning
requirements.
      (5)   Where 2 or more non-conforming contiguous lots are combined to form
a buildable lot, they shall be recombined and recorded prior to issuance of any
permits.
      (6)   Lots shall meet any applicable County Health Department
requirements.
      (7)   Lots with double frontage will be allowed where a permanent access
restriction along the entire length of the secondary road frontage is
furnished, shall be recorded on the subdivision plat and grading and/or
landscaping shall be such that prohibits casual access on the secondary
frontage.
      (8)   Every lot shall be appropriately sized and shaped for its intended
use.
      (9)   No lot shall be created which contains a private access easement to
another lot or adjoining property.
      (10)   Corner lots shall be of sufficient size to allow front yard
setbacks on both sides adjacent to roads; except corner lots where 1 side is
adjacent to an exterior street.
      (11)   For the purposes of determining the size of a lot, the net lot
area will be used. The net lot area calculations shall not include road rights-
of-way, private roads, access easements and other similar uses or easements
which do not allow use of the land for other purposes (such as the location of
a house or a drainage field for example).
      (12)   Peculiarly shaped elongations or protrusions shall not be formed
solely to minimum net square footage required.
   (B)   Lot dimensions and standards. The size, shape and orientation of all
lots shall be appropriate for the type of development proposed. Non-buildable
lots shall be clearly denoted as such on all plats and plans and shall conform
to the following.
      (1)   Conformance to other regulations. Every lot shall have sufficient
area, dimension and street access to permit a principal structure to be erected
or placed thereon in compliance with all existing ordinances of the county,
except nothing shall prevent the developer from creating non-buildable lots,
providing they are clearly denoted as such on all plats and plans.
      (2)   Minimum net lot area. Every lot shall have 50% of its total area of
contiguous buildable area of a shape to hold a principal structure. The area
shall lie at an elevation of 3 feet above the base flood elevation. Lots with
constraints shall comply with the table in division (B)(7) below.
      (3)   Lot depth to width ratio. No lot shall have a depth greater than 4
times the width, except where:
         (a)   Wetlands, floodplains and/or slopes or any combination thereof
in excess of 20% or conditions constituting more than 25% is located within the
wetlands, floodplain or areas with slopes in excess of 20%;
         (b)   Irrevocable, permanent deed restrictions are placed upon the
lot, and recorded on the face of the recorded plat, that will prohibit the lot
from further subdivision; and
         (c)   Width shall be based on the average width of the lot.
      (4)   Side lot line configurations. Side property lines of lots shall be
substantially at right angles or radial to street lines; except as in division
(B)(6)(e) below or where natural topography would dictate otherwise.
      (5)   Lot lines and drainage. Lot boundaries shall coincide with natural
or pre-existing manmade drainageways or other watercourses to the extent
possible to avoid lots that can only be built upon only by altering the
drainage ways or watercourses.
      (6)   Subdivision of existing lots or reduction in lot size.
         (a)   There shall be no subdivision of existing lots resulting in the
separation of the well, septic tank or drainage field or replacement drainage
field.
         (b)   There shall be no subdivision of existing lots resulting in non-
compliance development, health or safety issues, and no non-compliance
condition shall be increased. (Note: For lots with existing septic tanks,
evaluations of lots for septic tank installation are based on the size,
configuration and soil types of the existing lot. Changes to this lot size or
configuration could render the evaluation and subsequent permit invalid.)
         (c)   Two or more existing contiguous lots combined under 1 ownership
shall not be reduced in size if the reduction results in non-compliance
development, health or safety requirements, nor shall any non-conformity be
increased.
         (d)   Exemptions to division (B)(6)(b) and (B)(6)(c) above; these
prohibitions shall not apply if the lot is reduced as a direct result of
acquisition or condemnation proceedings by the county, city or state.
         (e)   There shall be no subdivision of an existing lot or lots
resulting in an existing structure being located on parts of 2 or more lots.
      (7)   Lots with constraints or unzoned parcels.
         (a)   Minimum net lot area for property which is not zoned by the
county or which has constraints shall be as follows.
            1.   Constrained lots are those on which 1 or more of the following
characteristics are present on over 50% of the lot.
            2.   Partially constrained lots are those on which 1 or more of the
following characteristics are present on over 25% of the lot but less than 50%
of the lot.
            3.   Constraining characteristics of land:
               a.   Slopes over 20%;
               b.   Soils with a plasticity index greater than 48; or with rock
within 3 feet of the surface; or with the water table within 1 foot of surface;
               c.   Floodway or floodplain of 100-year flood;
               d.   Wetlands; and
               e.   Water Supply Watershed Protection Area
            4.   Table:
Minimum Lot Size (In Square Feet)
Partially Lot   Soils Report Constrained Constrained Unconstrained Supported
Characteristics
Minimum Lot Size (In Square Feet)
Partially Lot           Soils Report Constrained Unconstrained Supported
Characteristics         Constrained
WS-111-CA               43,560       43,560      43,560
WS-111-BW               35,000       35,000      35,000
WS-IV-PA                35,000       35,000      35,000
Public Water and Sewer  20,000       15,000      10,000
Only Public Sewer (Well 40,000       30,000      20,000
or Community Well)
WS-111-CA               43,560       43,560      43,560
WS-111-BW               40,000       35,000      35,000
WS-IV-PA                40,000       35,000      35,000
Only Public Water       60,000       45,000                    30,000
WS-111-CA               60,000       45,000                    43,560
WS-111-BW               60,000       45,000                    35,000
WS-IV-PA                60,000       45,000                    35,000
Other Lots              80,000       60,000      40,000        down to 30,000*
WS-111-CA               80,000       60,000      43,560
WS-111-BW               80,000       60,000      40,000        down to 35,000*
WS-IV-PA                80,000       60,000      40,000        down to 35,000*
NOTES TO TABLE:
 
* - The Planning Director or his or her designee and the Vance County
Department of Public Health may, in concert and only in full agreement, reduce
the minimum lot size, where evidence is submitted to show, through use of soil
testing by a certified soils scientist and/or other supportable data, that
40,000 square feet is in excess of the size required for adequate sewage
disposal and where no proposed or existing well site would be jeopardized. The
minimum lot size for construction in a Watershed Protection Area may be
adjusted by whatever increment is judged appropriate by the Vance County
Department of Public Health and the Planning Director or his or her designee.
The minimum lot size shall not be reduced below 43,560 in Watershed Protection
Areas with a WS-111-CA designation, below 35,000 in Watershed Protection Areas
with a WS-111-BW or WS-IV-PA designation, below 30,000 square feet under any
circumstances. No request for a reduction of lot size will be considered
unless submitted with appropriate evidence.
 
         (b)   All minimum lot sizes without public sewer are subject to a
larger minimum where required by the Vance County Health Department.
      (8)   Non-buildable lots. (See also divisions (A) and (B) of this
section.) Nothing shall prevent the developer from creating non-buildable lots,
provided they are clearly denoted as such on all plats and plans.
      (9)   Oversized lots. Whenever a subdivision includes 1 or more lots of
the size that they may eventually be re-subdivided into smaller lots, the
developer may be required to dedicate rights-of-way for future roads to provide
access to areas of potential re-subdivision. The Planning Board may allow the
dedication to be waived where irreversible deed restrictions prohibiting the
re-subdivision have been or will be recorded with the final plat.
      (10)   Access to lots and driveways.
         (a)   All driveways and driveway entrances shall conform to the NCDOT
“Policy on Street and Driveway access to NC Highways” for that portion within
the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Driveways and driveway entrances onto approved private roads or
private access easements shall require Vance County Planning Board approval.
         (c)   No lot shall be created that is landlocked or that does not have
permanent ingress or egress to the property.
         (d)   Adequate access shall be provided to each lot, with a minimum
driveway entrance width of 20 feet unless more is deemed necessary because of
topographical conditions or street curvature.
         (e)   There shall be a minimum of 20 feet between driveways except
that 2 properties may share a driveway centered on the shared property line.
         (f)   Development permits for a lot shall not be issued without
ingress and egress shown on the plot plan and verification that vehicles shall
be able to exit going forward. No occupancy permit shall be issued until the
approved ingress and egress is constructed and operational.
         (g)   Driveways crossing known flood hazard areas shall be elevated to
or above the 100-year flood plain. Lots with driveways located within a Special
Flood Hazard Area shall, prior to obtaining any development permits, make
provisions for access to the property during times of flooding, prior to
obtaining any development permits.
         (h)   The size of driveway culverts allowed shall be based on
calculation of the amount and velocity of flow of storm water in the channel.
The minimum diameter shall be 15 inches. The ponding of additional storm water
in a right-of-way, on individual property or the diversion of additional storm
water to an adjoining property is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 408) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.098 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks. Where used or appropriate, the lengths, widths and shapes of
blocks shall be determined with due regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      (2)   Zoning requirements;
      (3)   Needs for vehicular and pedestrian circulation;
      (4)   Control and safety of street traffic;
      (5)   Limitations and opportunities of topography; and
      (6)   Convenient access to water areas.
   (B)   Length. Blocks shall not be more than 1,320 feet in length.
   (C)   Width. Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow 2 tiers of lots of
minimum depth, except:
      (1)   Where single tier lots are required to separate the subdivision
from a street or road;
      (2)   In nonresidential subdivisions for purposes of separating uses; or
      (3)   Where abutting a water area.
   (D)   Crosswalks. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian
crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient
public access to a public area such as:
      (1)   A park or school;
      (2)   A water area; or
      (3)   Areas such as shopping centers, religious or transportation
facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 409) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.099 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Easements shall be provided as follows.
   (B)   Easements provided.
      (1)   Utility easements. Easements for underground utilities shall be
centered on rear or side lot lines.
      (2)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of the
stream and shall be of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
      (3)   Floodplain easement. Where a portion of a subdivision is located in
a floodplain, the floodplain shall be clearly designated on the plat in
compliance with required “Flood Easement” statement listed in the Planning
Department Policies and Procedures.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 410) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.100 MINIMUM SETBACKS.
   (A)   Sewage facilities All sewage facilities shall be located 100 feet from
any existing well or proposed new well.
   (B)   Private road setbacks; minimum setback from private roads and private
access easements. All buildings and principal uses shall have a setback of not
less than 20 feet from the right-of-way line of any private road or private
access easement.
   (C)   Public road setbacks; minimum setback from public roads. All lots in
areas of Vance County that are un-zoned shall have a minimum setback for all
buildings and principal uses on a lot measured from the existing or proposed
road right-of-way, or future expected road right-of-way for major
thoroughfares, as follows:
      (1)   Thirty feet for a road with a posted speed of 35 mph or less;
      (2)   Forty feet for a road with a posted speed of 45 mph;
      (3)   Fifty feet for a road having a posted speed above 45 mph; and
      (4)   Fifty feet for a road not having a posted speed.
   (D)   Minimum setback property lines. All lots shall provide a building
setback of 20 feet from all property lines other than an existing or future
road right-of-way line.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.101 PARKING.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for adequate off-street
parking for single-family residential developments and to maintain all roadways
and entrances free of impediments to traffic.
   (B)   (1)   Each lot within the subdivision shall be of adequate shape and
size to provide a minimum of 2 on-site parking spaces for each dwelling unit on
the lot.
      (2)   Each parking space shall have a minimum size of 9 feet by 19 feet
for the exclusive use of residents and visitors of that lot.
   (C)   No parking shall be provided for on private roads or at the entrances
to subdivisions unless additional paved width to the road has been approved
expressly for this purpose by the Planning Board and/or NCDOT as appropriate.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 412) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.102 RESIDENTIAL FENCING AND WALLS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise noted in this chapter, fences or yard
walls are permitted subject to the following regulations.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   Barbed wire, razor wire or concertina wire is specifically not
permitted.
      (2)   No fencing or walls shall be allowed in the road right-of-way or in
areas required for vehicular sight distance.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 413) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.103 NAMING OF A DEVELOPMENT.
   New development names shall not duplicate or closely approximate the names
of existing or reserved subdivisions, apartment complexes, mobile home parks,
roads, lanes, drives or streets, within the county, within municipalities in
the county or in adjoining counties within 1 mile of Vance County. Naming of a
development shall be subject to approval by the Vance County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 414) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.104 IDENTIFICATION SIGN ALLOWED.
   (A)   Size specifications. A sign not exceeding 32 square feet in area and 6
feet in height with indirect lighting shall be permitted. No animated, flashing
or moving signs will be permitted. The sign must be clearly legible from 150
feet and shall not incorporate script in lieu of numbers. If illuminated, signs
parallel to the road shall be lighted from the front side only and if
perpendicular may be lighted from both sides. No lighting shall be directed
toward the road.
   (B)   Sign maintenance. Provisions for the maintenance of an identification
sign, lighting equipment and landscaping shall be included in Home Owners
Association Documents (see §
155.108) and submitted as part of the plat for approval of a subdivision.
   (C)   DOT standards. All subdivision identification signs shall also conform
to the NCDOT Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards. “The Division
of Highways will review requests to erect subdivision name markers on an
individual basis. The name markers may be allowed to be located within the
State Highway System Secondary Road Rights-of-Way at the beginning of a
subdivision road, provided the location of such is outside the line of sight
and the normal maintenance limits. The name markers will be approved only at
locations which will not sacrifice safety to the general traveling public.
Approval to erect subdivision name markers will be with the following
understanding.”
      (1)   All costs will be the responsibility of the requestor.
      (2)   The North Carolina Division of Highways will not maintain the
marker or the area around the marker.
      (3)   The markers will be removed if not properly maintained.
      (4)   The Division Engineer may allow the subdivision name markers on
secondary road rights-of-way after review on an individual basis.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 415) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.105 OTHER SIGNS.
   No signs shall be allowed in a road right-of-way or safe sight distances,
except those approved by the North Carolina Department of Transportation and
Vance County. No billboards or other off-site signs shall be permitted in a
subdivision which would impair the delivery of emergency services, block house
numbers, block street naming signs, block traffic control signage or impair
traffic visibility.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 416) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.106 911 ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIRED TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   Address. Each lot shall be clearly numbered with 4-inch letters on a
contrasting background on a permanent monument or marker at the intersection of
the front yard line and the road ROW. The house number shall be readily
identifiable by emergency personnel. The use of script in lieu of numeric
characters is specifically prohibited.
   (B)   Temporary address signs. An all-weather temporary sign, visible from
the road at all times, may be used. The developer shall be responsible for
maintaining the numbering on the lot until final occupancy is granted.
      (1)   Each structure within a subdivision shall be clearly numbered on
the structure.
      (2)   No structure within a subdivision may be occupied until the
provisions in division (A) above have been met.
      (3)   The owner shall be responsible for maintaining the numbering on the
structure and the monument or marker.
      (4)   (a)   All mail receptacles shall have the structure or dwelling
numbers posted with 2-inch letters on a contrasting background.
         (b)   The use of script in lieu of numeric characters is specifically
prohibited. Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the homeowner.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 417) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.107 CEMETERIES.
   (A)   A subdivision shall provide permanent public access to any existing
cemetery within the boundaries of the subdivision.
   (B)   If there is no other access, any existing cemetery located on land
adjacent to a proposed subdivision must be provided adequate access.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 418) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.108 HOME OWNER’S ASSOCIATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment of owner’s association.
      (1)   Creation. An owner’s association shall be established in compliance
with the North Carolina Condominium Act or to accept conveyance and maintenance
of common areas and facilities within a development.
      (2)   Conveyance. All common areas or facilities, except rights-of-way
and other areas dedicated to the jurisdiction, shall be conveyed by the
subdivider or developer to the owner’s association.
      (3)   Subdivision or conveyance of common area. Common areas shall not be
subdivided or conveyed to the Owner’s Association unless a revised plat is
submitted to and approved by the Planning Board.
      (4)   Owner’s association not required. Developments involving only 2
units attached by a party wall shall be permitted to have an owners agreement
in lieu of a home owner’s association concerning the maintenance of the party
wall.
   (B)   Submission of owner’s association declaration. A copy of proposed
bylaws covering covenants and restraints shall be submitted with the final plat
prior to approval.
      (1)   Existence before any conveyance. The owner’s association
declaration shall be organized and in legal existence prior to the conveyance,
lease-option or other long-term transfer of control of any unit or lot in the
development.
      (2)   Membership. Membership in the owner’s association shall be
mandatory for each original purchaser and each successive purchaser of a lot or
unit. Provisions shall be made for the assimilation of owners in subsequent
sections of the development.
      (3)   Owner’s association declaration. The owner’s association
declaration shall contain the following items.
         (a)   Responsibilities of owner’s association. The owner’s association
declaration shall state that the association is responsible for:
            1.   The payment of premiums for liability insurance and local
taxes;
            2.   Maintenance of recreational and/or other facilities located on
the common areas; and
            3.   Payment of assessments for public and private improvements
made to or for the benefit of the common areas
         (b)   Default of owner’s association.
            1.   In the event of failure of the owner’s association to pay
jurisdictional assessments for public improvements or ad valorem taxes levied
against the common areas with the default continuing for 6 months or more, each
individual owner shall be personally obligated to pay his or her portion of the
due amount.
            2.   The amount due, determined by dividing the number of lots into
the amount owed, shall be paid within 30 days following receipt of notice.
            3.   Failure of the owner to pay the amount due, his or her heirs,
devisees, personal representatives or assigns to, shall result in a property
lien on his or her parcel and may result in foreclosure of the lien against the
owner’s property.
         (c)   Powers of the association. Failure of a property owner, subject
to the owner’s association to pay expenses due, shall constitute a lien on the
property.
         (d)   Easements and rights of access and use. Easements over the
common areas for access, ingress and egress from and to public streets and
walkways and easements for enjoyment of the common areas, and for parking,
shall be granted to each lot owner.
         (e)   Maintenance and restoration. The owner’s association shall
establish and adopt provisions for common area maintenance and restoration in
the event of destruction or damage.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 419)
§ 155.109 BOAT DOCKS.
   (A)   Subdivisions with access allowed by the US Corps of Engineer on Kerr
Lake shall have at least 1 dedicated roadway to the lake for use by all owners
within the subdivision. Construction and maintenance shall comply with USCOE
requirements and shall minimize the disturbance to existing shoreline and
adjacent lands.
   (B)   The use of high wattage spotlights, flashing lights or other intrusive
lighting system is expressly prohibited. No straight pipe restroom facilities
may be constructed in conjunction with any development on land adjoining the
Kerr Lake.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 420) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.110 CONSTRUCTION ASSURANCES FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Refer to §§
155.145 et seq. for construction assurance requirements.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 421)
§ 155.111 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATION FORMS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Check lists, forms, certifications, statements, construction plan
requirements and applications for minor subdivisions are listed in the policies
and procedures document for the Vance County Planning and Development.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 422)
FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.125 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for orderly
review, processing and action on major subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 501)
§ 155.126 GENERALLY.
   The Vance County Planning Board has the right and responsibility to review,
require revisions and changes in any proposed subdivision for the purpose of:
   (A)   Relieve adverse impacts on public safety, health and welfare;
   (B)   Determine that adequate and sustainable utilities and services are
available for the development;
   (C)   Protect public investments in roads, drainage facilities, sewage
facilities and public water supplies;
   (D)   Preserve the value of land and development; and
   (E)   Assure that the regulations of Vance County are upheld.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 502)
§ 155.127 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No permits for construction, clearing or grading of any new or expansion of
existing subdivisions shall be issued until a subdivision plat has been
submitted, reviewed and approved per the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 503)
§ 155.128 PRE-SUBMITTAL CONFERENCE AND CONCEPT PLAN SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW.
   A developer may request a “pre-submittal” conference with the Planning
Department and/or Technical Review Committee regarding the development of a
proposed subdivision.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 504)
§ 155.129 COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT IN PHASES.
   A subdivision may be developed in phases, provided that:
   (A)   Each phase contains at least 6 lots, unless shown on a phasing plan
approved by the Planning Board as part of the preliminary subdivision plan;
   (B)   A phasing plan showing the phases of development and the requirements
of this chapter that will be satisfied in each phase is either approved as part
of the preliminary plan or in conjunction with approvals of both the
construction plat and final plat;
   (C)   The number of lots and amount of any required open space in the phase
and any previously approved phases is at least proportional to the portion of
the subdivision site area within the phase(s); and
   (D)   The degree and extent of road, water supply, sewage disposal, storm
water management, erosion and sedimentation control and other required
improvements in the phase and previously approved phases is sufficient to serve
or handle all development within the phase(s).
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 505) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.130 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION FORMS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   The following items are presented in checklist form and constitute the
application requirements for:
   (A)   Conceptual plan checklist; and
   (B)   Major subdivision:
      (1)   Preliminary plat checklist;
      (2)   Construction plan checklist;
      (3)   Final plat checklist; and
      (4)   Required certification statements.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 506)
§ 155.131 IMPROVEMENTS, DEDICATIONS, EASEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
REQUIRED.
   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this
subchapter, which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter. Land shall be dedicated, reserved or easements provided in each
subdivision as specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 507) Penalty, see §
10.99
BONDS AND ASSURANCES
§ 155.145 CONSTRUCTION ASSURANCES.
   (A)   In the event that the required improvements have not been completed
prior to the submission to the Planning Board of the final plat for a major
subdivision, or the submission of a minor subdivision plat for signature and
recording, the developer shall guarantee the completion of the required
improvements in an amount equal to 150% of the estimated cost of the
improvements, conditional upon completion within a reasonable period of time
and to the satisfaction of the Board of County Commissioners.
      (1)   One of the following methods may be pursued by the developer to
ensure the installation of the improvements:
         (a)   Filing a performance or surety bond in an amount approved by the
Board of County Commissioners;
         (b)   Depositing or placing in escrow a certified check or cash in an
amount satisfactory to the Board of County Commissioners; or
         (c)   Furnishing an irrevocable letter of credit guaranteeing payment
to Vance County in the event of default.
      (2)   Neither a bond, irrevocable letter of credit, nor certified check
in escrow shall be required if the developer proves that he or she has paid the
utility company(s) the amount of money needed to install the utilities in a
timely manner.
      (3)   Neither a bond, irrevocable letter of credit nor certified check in
escrow shall be required of the developer if the utility company(s) state in
writing that the utilities will be installed at no cost to the developer nor
new lot owner(s).
   (B)   When the required improvements have been completed to the satisfaction
of the appropriate agencies and the subdivision ordinance, the Planning
Director shall make a request in writing to the County Manager to release the
bond, letter of credit or funds from escrow.
   (C)   The approval of a final plat pursuant to regulations adopted herein
shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the acceptance by the county, any
governmental unit or public body of the dedication of any street or other
ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 601)
WORD USAGE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 155.160 USAGE.
   (A)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense and words used in the singular
include the plural.
   (B)   In general, words and terms used in these standards shall have their
customary dictionary meanings; except as defined in the following section or
unless they are used in context so as to indicate otherwise.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 701)
§ 155.161 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Meaning of common words.
      (1)   All words used in the present tense include future tense.
      (2)   All words used in the plural include the singular, and all words
used in the singular include the plural.
      (3)   All words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender.
      (4)   The words “shall” or “will” are mandatory, and the word “may” is
permissive.
      (5)   The word “building” includes the word “structure.”
      (6)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot,” “parcel” and “tract.”
      (7)   The word “person” includes a “firm,” “association,” “organization,”
“partnership,” “trust,” “company” or “corporation” as well as an “individual.”
   (B)   Words and terms defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ABUTTING PROPERTY. For public notice purposes, any lot which is
physically contiguous with the lot in question, even if only at a point, and
any lot which is located directly across a street or right-of-way. Also
ADJOINING, ADJACENT or CONTIGUOUS.
      ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right to cross property.
See also “private access easement.”
      BALANCE AREA (WATERSHED). Area of watershed other than critical area.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by walls or columns
constructed or used for a residence, business, industry or other private or
public purposes.
      BUILT UPON AREA. Built upon areas shall include that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
including buildings, pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g.,
tennis courts), and the like. (Note: wooden slatted decks and the water area of
a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
      CONSTRUCTION ASSURANCE. A financial instrument that guarantees to the
county that the public improvements required to be constructed as part of an
approved subdivision will either be constructed by the subdivision developer or
that the county shall have sufficient funds in the form of a financial
instrument to complete the required public improvements if the subdivision
developer does not.
      CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS (PLANS). Drawings showing the location, profile
grades, size and type of drains, sewers, water mains, underground fire alarm
ducts, underground power ducts, and underground telephone ducts, pavements,
cross-section of streets, miscellaneous structures, and the like.
      CONTIGUOUS LOT. For the purposes of these regulations, a lot shall be
considered to be contiguous with another lot if the lot adjoins or is
coterminous with another lot at any point or line.
      COUNTY. Refers to Vance County, North Carolina.
      CRITICAL AREA (WATERSHED). The area located within 1/2 mile of and
draining to water supplies as measured from the normal pool elevation of
reservoirs, or 1/2 mile of and draining to a river intake.
      DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, of his or her property to another party
without any consideration being given for the transfer. The DEDICATION is made
by written instrument and is completed with an acceptance.
      DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation engaged in development, or proposed development, of a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavations, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A document issued by the Planning Department for an
individual lot, which identifies ownership, geographical information, physical
attributes (size and configuration), source of water, method of sewage
disposal, road access information, existing improvements and proposed
improvements. This document specifies the conditions under which proposed
improvements can occur.
      DRIVEWAY. A private entrance from a road or right-of-way to a lot,
building or buildings on same or abutting grounds. The DRIVEWAY itself shall
not constitute the means of legal access to a lot.
      EASEMENT. A grant of 1 or more property rights, by the property owner,
to, or for use by, another, the public, a corporation or other entities. The
authorization of a property owner for the use by another, for a specified
purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
      ENGINEER. Professional Engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina.
      FLOODPLAIN. Area designated by FEMA as 1% (flood danger is 1 year in 100
years) and as 5% (flood danger is 1 year in 500 years).
      FRONT OR STREET SETBACK. A line parallel to the street in front of which
no structure shall be erected.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface composed of any material that impedes or
prevents natural infiltration of water into the soil.
      INTERIOR SETBACK. A setback from any property line not alongside a
street.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership, or for development or both. The word LOT
includes PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
      LOT, BUILDABLE or ZONE LOT. One or more lots of record in 1 undivided
ownership with sufficient total area, exclusive of easements, flood hazards,
well and septic tank fields; sufficient total dimensions; and access to permit
construction thereon of a principal building together with its required parking
and planting yards.
      LOT(S), CONSTRAINED. A lot on which 1 or more of the following
characteristics are present on over 50% of the lot:
         (a)   Slopes over 20%;
         (b)   Soils with a plasticity index greater than 48; or with rock
within 3 feet of the surface; or with water table within 1 foot of surface;
         (c)   Floodway or floodplain of the FEMA 100-year flood of record;
         (d)   Wetlands; and/or
         (e)   Water Supply Watershed Protection Area.
      LOT CORNER. A lot abutting 2 or more streets at their intersection.
      LOT DEPTH. The distance measured along the perpendicular bisector of the
smallest possible rectangle enclosing the lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot, plot, parcel or tract recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds in conformance with the ordinance(s) in effect at the time of
recordation.
      LOT(S), PARTIALLY CONSTRAINED. A lot on which 1 or more of the following
characteristics are present on more than 25% of the lot but less than 50% of
the lot:
         (a)   Slopes over 20%;
         (b)   Soils with plasticity index greater than 48; or with rock within
3 feet of the surface; or with water table within 1 foot of surface;
         (c)   Floodway or floodplain of the FEMA 100-year flood of record;
         (d)   Wetlands; and/or
         (e)   Water Supply Watershed Protection Area.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean width measured at right angles to its depth at the
building line.
      MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING. A written document prepared by the
Subdivision Administrator after the Technical Review Board makes a
recommendation to the Planning Board on a Preliminary Subdivision Plat. This
document shall contain a record of those modifications to the application that
the applicant or the applicant’s agent has agreed to at the Technical Review
Board meeting and any further approval conditions or reasons for recommending
denial of the application acted upon by the Technical Review Committee.
      NET LOT AREA. The area of a lot not containing public road rights-of-way,
private road rights-of-way, private or public access easements or other similar
easements which do not allow use of the land for other purposes (such as the
location of a house or septic drainage field, and the like).
      NEW PRIVATE ROAD. Construction of a vehicular right-of-way and street or
road where no road currently exist and not intended for dedication to or
maintenance by NCDOT or other appropriate public agency.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot which is now prohibited under the terms of this
chapter, but was lawful at the date of this chapter’s enactment, or any
amendment or revision thereto.
      OWNER. Any holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises,
whether alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
      PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, limited liability company or corporation, as well as an individual.
      PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of Vance County.
      PLANNING DEPARTMENT. The Planning Department of Vance County.
      PLOT PLAN. A plan of an individual lot, prepared to a scale (1 inch = 40
feet through 1 inch = 100 feet), showing the following information accurately
with dimensioning:
         (a)   The boundaries of a site;
         (b)   Minimum building setback lines;
         (c)   The location of all buildings, structures and uses;
         (d)   The location of proposed driveways and on-site vehicle storage
and turnaround facilities; and
         (e)   The proposed location any wells and septic fields including
primary repair/replacement fields.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING or PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A building or structure in
which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is located. Any
dwelling is considered a PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
      PRIVATE ACCESS EASEMENT. A vehicular right-of-way granted and recorded
with the Register of Deeds providing for permanent ingress and egress across 1
lot to another on which the owner(s) of the property containing the easement
shall not erect any temporary or permanent structures other than those
structures necessary for management of storm water drainage.
      PRIVATE ROAD. A vehicular right-of-way and street or road not intended
for dedication to or maintenance by NCDOT or other appropriate public agency.
      PROTECTED AREA (WATERSHED). The area located within 5 miles and draining
to water supplies as measured from the normal pool elevation of reservoirs, or
10 miles upstream of and draining to a river intake. However, in some cases,
the PROTECTED AREA can encompass the entire drainage area.
      PUBLIC ROAD. A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which
has been accepted by NCDOT for maintenance, or is not yet accepted, but in
which the roadway design and construction have been approved under public
standards for vehicular traffic. Alleys are specifically excluded.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A system which provides for the collection and treatment of
sanitary sewage from more than 1 property and is owned and operated by a
government organization or sanitary district.
      PUBLIC WATER. A system which provides distribution of potable water for
more than property and is owned and operated by a government organization or
utility district.
      REAR SETBACK. A setback from an interior property line lying on the
opposite side of the lot from the front or street setback.
      REGISTER OF DEEDS. Vance County Register of Deeds.
      RESERVATION. Reservation of land does not involve any transfer of
property rights. It constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
      RE-SUBDIVISION. The division of an existing subdivision or any change of
lot size therein or the relocation of any street or lot in a subdivision.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
travelway for vehicles and also available, with the consent of the appropriate
governmental agency, for installation and maintenance of sidewalks, traffic
control devices, traffic signs, street name signs, historical marker signs,
water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, gas lines, power lines
and communication lines.
      ROAD/STREET. For the purposes of this chapter, the words ROAD and STREET
shall have the same meaning and are interchangeable.
      SETBACK. The horizontal distance between a structure or activity and a
property line, road right-of-way line or road centerline should the centerline
of a road right-of-way be used to measure minimum required setbacks.
      SIDE SETBACK. Any interior property line setback other than a rear
setback.
      SHALL. When used in this chapter, it is intended to indicate a mandatory
requirement.
      SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the appropriate
government body or agency the right to maintain unobstructed view across
property located at a street or lane intersection.
      SLOPE. An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed
as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance, commonly expressed as
“two to one” (2:1).
      SOIL SCIENTIST. A person who practices soil science and is licensed in
accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes.
      SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected or placed.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation or official agent thereof, who
subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION. For purposes of this chapter, the term SUBDIVISION shall
mean the division of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots, building
sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building development
(whether immediate or future), and includes all division of land involving the
dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; however, the
following are not included within this definition and are not subject to any
subdivision approval regulations in this chapter:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of a portion of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased, and
the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres if not
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets; and
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership, the entire area of
which is not greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, if no street
right-of-way dedication is involved, and if the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The Vance County Planning Director.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision other than a minor subdivision,
including all subdivisions of land for which a non-residential use is proposed.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision pursuant to this chapter to be used
only for single-family detached residential uses where the lots may have access
to an existing public road, or an existing private road, or a proposed Class 1
Private Road, or a proposed Class 2 Private Road (accessed by 7 or fewer lots),
or a private access easement (accessed by 4 or fewer lots) (see definition of
“private road” and “private access easement” and this chapter for standards)
and where the proposed subdivision does not:
         (a)   Create more than 7 lots (6 new lots) from any 1 tract of land,
whether the lots are created at 1 time or over an extended period of time,
regardless of changes in ownership;
         (b)   Dedicate or improve any new public roads;
         (c)   Adversely affect the development potential of the remainder of
the parcel or of adjoining property by virtue of unreasonably limiting access
or limiting adequate drainage;
         (d)   Preclude reasonable access to the remainder of the tract of land
being subdivided via the future use of a 60 feet wide public or private street
(25 feet if 60 feet is not available);
         (e)   Preclude safe public or private road access to adjoining tracts
of land; and
         (f)   Propose lots entirely or substantially located in a flood hazard
area as defined by
Chapter 153.
      SUBDIVISION PLAT, FINAL. The final drawings on which a plan of
subdivision is presented to the Vance County Planning Board for approval and
which, if approved, shall be filed for recording with the Vance County Register
of Deeds. The fully executed, signed final plat shall be filed in Register of
Deeds office within 60 days of the date of approval in order to retain approval
status.
      SUBDIVISION PLAT, MINOR. The drawings on which a plan of a minor
subdivision is presented to the Vance County Planning Board for approval and
which, if approved, shall be filed for recording with the Vance County Register
of Deeds.
      SUBDIVISION PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary drawings indicating all
existing conditions relating to a site and a plan prepared in accordance this
chapter. Sufficient detail and sufficient accuracy shall be used in the
preparation of the plan of the existing physical characteristics of the project
property, the proposed changes in those characteristics, or proposed uses of
the project property to enable a full and comprehensive review of the proposed
development and the proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the
Planning Board for its consideration.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN FOR VANCE COUNTY. A systematic study of the
Thoroughfare Road System in Vance County which identifies existing and future
deficiencies in the road system and identifies the need for any new facilities.
These needs and deficiencies are then brought forward as projects to be placed
before the North Carolina Department of Transportation for funding
consideration. If the deficiency or need is recognized as a priority it will be
included in the 5-year Transportation Improvement Plan and scheduled for state
funding. Projects not identified in the Thoroughfare Plan are not considered
for funding.
      TRACT OR PARCEL OF LAND. All contiguous land and bodies of water in 1
ownership, or contiguous land and bodies of water in diverse ownership, being
developed as a unit, although not necessarily all at 1 time.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or structures is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which land or structures are occupied or
maintained.
      UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement that grants the governing body or other
utility providers the right to install and thereafter maintain any and all
utilities including, but not limited to, water lines, sewer lines, septic tank
drain fields, storm sewer lines, electrical power lines, telephone lines,
natural gas lines and community antenna television systems.
      VANCE COUNTY PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ROAD SYSTEM; FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION.
The following are functional classifications used to determine design speed,
right-of-way width, sight distance, access policy and other design and
development criteria:
         (a)   Interstate highways (I-85);
         (b)   Major thoroughfares, including the following categories:
            1.   Arterial roads:
               a.   Principal arterial - serves primarily substantial statewide
or interstate travel. This system consists of all non-interstate principal
arterial roads (typical speeds of 55 mph or higher); and
               b.   Minor arterial - serves primarily through traffic movements
in the county (typical speeds of 45 to 55 mph).
            2.   Collector roads:
               a.   Major collector - serves primarily intra-county travel. The
major collectors
supplement the arterial system by providing an interconnecting network between
smaller population centers and the arterial system (typical speeds of 45 to 55
mph);
               b.   Minor collector - collects traffic from local roads and
brings all developed areas within reasonable distance of a collector road
(typical speeds of 45 to 55 mph); and
               c.   Unclassified collectors - all major or minor collectors
that have not yet been assigned a functional classification (typical speeds of
45 to 55 mph).
         (c)   Minor thoroughfares; local roads:
            1.   Residential subdivision road - a road which serves primarily
to provide access to abutting property, over relatively short distances
(typical speeds of 25 to 30 mph);
            2.   Residential collector road - a road which serves as the
connecting system between local residential subdivision roads and collectors,
but which also may provide direct access to abutting properties (typical speeds
of 25 to 35 mph); and
            3.   Subdivision access road - a road built through vacant property
to provide access to a subdivision. This road would not have lots platted along
it (see this chapter for application).
      WAIVER. Permission to depart from the literal requirements of this
chapter, when, in the opinion of the Planning Board, the literal application of
the requirements of this chapter create an undue hardship on the owner of the
property and where the public health, safety and welfare interest of the public
can be served as well or better by alternative means.
      WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to specific
point (e.g., the water supply intake.)
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004, § 702)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
Legal Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose
   
156.002   Authority and enactment
   
156.003   Title
   
156.004   Jurisdiction
   
156.005   Bona fide farms exempt
   
156.006   Minimum requirements
   
156.007   Severability
   
156.008   Vested rights
   
156.009   Effective date
Definitions and Word Interpretations
   
156.015   Definitions
Application and Enforcement
   
156.020   Application
   
156.021   Enforcement
Zoning Map
   
156.030   Adoption
   
156.031   Interpretation of zone boundaries
   
156.032   Zones; descriptions and dimensions
   
156.033   Table of permitted uses
   
156.034   Conditional zoning districts
General Provisions
   
156.040   Street access
   
156.041   Required yards not to be used by another building
   
156.042   Relationship of building to lot
   
156.043   Reduction of lot and yard areas permitted
   
156.044   Substandard lot of record
   
156.045   Adjoining and vacant lots of record
   
156.046   Additional environmental provisions
   
156.047   Curb cuts giving access to public right-of-ways
   
156.048   Projection into public right-of-ways
   
156.049   Height limit exceptions
   
156.050   Corner visibility
   
156.051   Accessory structures/buildings
   
156.052   Accessory uses
   
156.053   Outdoor display
   
156.054   Outdoor storage
   
156.055   Screening and buffering
   
156.056   Lighting
   
156.057   Manufactured home for hardship
   
156.058   Cluster development
   
156.059   Only one main building/use on lot, and building orientation
   
156.060   Minimum yards
   
156.061   Lot subdivision
   
156.062   Improvements bond
   
156.063   General development regulations
Nonconforming Uses
   
156.070   Generally
   
156.071   Continuance of nonconforming buildings
   
156.072   Continuance of nonconforming use of land
   
156.073   Change of use
   
156.074   Reconstruction of nonconforming buildings
   
156.075   Normal maintenance and repair of a building containing a
nonconforming use
Special Use Permits
   
156.080   Objectives and purpose
   
156.081   Procedures
   
156.082   Board of Adjustment action
   
156.083   Denials and appeals
   
156.084   Compliance with zone regulations
   
156.085   Failure to comply with plans/notification of adjacent property owners
   
156.086   Expiration
   
156.087   Modification of plans
   
156.088   Supplemental requirements for special uses
   
156.089   Special use minimum development requirements
Parking, Off-Street Parking, and Loading
   
156.100   Off-street parking required
   
156.101   Certification of minimum parking requirements
   
156.102   Combination of required parking space
   
156.103   Remote parking space
   
156.104   Requirements for parking lots
   
156.105   Mobile, manufactured and modular home and trailer parking and storing
   
156.106   Vehicle storage
   
156.107   Minimum parking requirements
   
156.108   Design standards for off-street parking
   
156.109   Off-street loading; purpose and general requirements
   
156.110   Design standards for off-street loading space
   
156.111   Minimum off-street loading requirements
Variances
   
156.120   Generally
   
156.121   Purpose
   
156.122   Authorized variances
   
156.123   Applications
   
156.124   Quasi-judicial proceedings
   
156.125   Evidence and testimony
   
156.126   Hearings
   
156.127   Review and decision
   
156.128   Required findings of fact
   
156.129   Conditions of approval
   
156.130   Variations from state watershed management requirements
   
156.131   Appeals to Superior Court
Signs
   
156.140   Generally
   
156.141   Reserved
   
156.142   Sign standards
   
156.143   Exempt signs
   
156.144   Prohibited signs
   
156.145   Sign placement, size, height, setback, separation, clearances/
construction by sign type
   
156.146   Nonconforming signs
Board of Adjustment
   
156.150   Generally
   
156.151   Authority
   
156.152   Membership
   
156.153   Voting
   
156.154   Court review
   
156.155   Notice of hearings/decisions
   
156.156   Oaths
   
156.157   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment
   
156.158   Variances
Changes and Amendments
   
156.170   Initiation of amendments
   
156.171   Action by the applicant
   
156.172   Action by the Planning Board
   
156.173   Action by the Board of County Commissioners
   
156.174   Withdrawal of the application
   
156.175   Conditional zoning
 
   
156.999   Penalty
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE.
   In order to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to
conserve the value of buildings; to protect the public water supply, and
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the planning and zoning
jurisdiction in accordance with the following goals set forth by the
Comprehensive Development Plan of Vance County, NC (adopted October 1996;
amended August 2010):
   (A)   To encourage development at a rate and in a pattern which can be
efficiently and effectively served by existing and planned services and
facilities.
   (B)   To provide and maintain adequate county services and facilities that
will accommodate economic development and growth and will protect the
environment, public health and general welfare.
   (C)   To promote, encourage, and stimulate the conservation of existing
housing stock, rehabilitation/replacement of substandard housing, construction
of new housing.
   (D)   To promote, expand, and diversify the economic base in Vance County to
maximize the use of local resources while protecting important natural features
and community values.
   (E)   To conserve, protect, and encourage the wise and prudent use of Vance
County's natural and cultural resources in order to maintain the rural and
agricultural nature of specific areas of the county.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.002 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   This Zoning Ordinance is hereby enacted pursuant to the authority vested in
Vance County by G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 7.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.003 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance, Vance County, North
Carolina."
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.004 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas designated as
zones on the official zoning map(s) by the Board of Commissioners of Vance
County. The official zoning map(s) will be on file in the Vance County Planning
and Development Department.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.005 BONA FIDE FARMS EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to bona fide farms. For
purposes of this chapter, the terms AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL, and FARMING
refer to all of the following:
      (1)   The cultivation of soil for production and harvesting of crops,
including but not limited to fruits, vegetables, sod, flowers and ornamental
plants.
      (2)   The planting and production of trees and timber.
      (3)   Dairying and the raising, management, care, and training of
livestock, including horses, bees, poultry, and other animals for individual
and public use, consumption, and marketing.
      (4)   Aquaculture as defined in G.S. § 106-758.
      (5)   The operation, management, conservation, improvement, and
maintenance of a farm and the structures and buildings on the farm, including
building and structure repair, replacement, expansion, and construction
incident to the farming operation.
      (6)   When performed on the farm, AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL, and FARMING
also include the marketing and selling of agricultural products, agritourism,
the storage and use of materials for agricultural purposes, packing, treating,
processing, sorting, storage, and other activities performed to add value to
crops, livestock, and agricultural items produced on the farm, and similar
activities incident to the operation of a farm.
      (7)   A public or private grain warehouse or warehouse operation where
grain is held 10 days or longer and includes, but is not limited to, all
buildings, elevators, equipment, and warehouses consisting of 1 or more
warehouse sections and considered a single delivery point with the capability
to receive, load out, weigh, dry, and store grain.
   (B)   For purposes of determining whether a property is being used for bona
fide farm purposes, G.S. § 160D-903, as amended, recodified or replaced, shall
control. Note: for ease of reference for our citizens, the following constitute
sufficient evidence that the property is being used for bona fide farm
purposes. Please verify these prior to proceeding with activity.
      (1)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department of
Revenue.
      (2)   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3.
      (3)   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the
owner's or operator's most recent federal income tax return.
      (4)   A forest management plan.
   (C)   This chapter does not impose nor exercise any controls over croplands,
timberlands, pasturelands, orchards, idle (land currently not cultivated or
that is fallow-currently unplanted for crops) or other farmlands. Nor does it
exercise control over any farmhouse, barn, poultry house, or other farm
buildings, including tenant or other houses for persons working on said farms,
as long as such houses shall be in the same ownership as the farm and located
on the farm. Residences for non-farm use or occupancy and other non-farm uses
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-2-
2018; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.006 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties. However, where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings, or requires larger open space than is imposed or required by other
ordinance, rules, regulations, or by easements, covenants, or agreements, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.007 SEVERABILITY.
   If any article, section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid by the courts, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion of this chapter. The Board of County
Commissioners hereby declares that it has passed this chapter and each article,
section, clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any 1 or
more articles, sections, sentences, or phrases be declared invalid by the
courts.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.008 VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   A vested right shall be deemed established with respect to any
property upon the valid approval, or conditional approval, of a site-specific
development plan or a phased development plan. Such vested right shall confer
upon the landowner the right to undertake and complete the development and use
of said property under the terms and conditions of the site-specific
development plan or the phased development plan including any amendments
thereto. A right, which has been vested, shall remain vested for a period of 2
years, or for the period of time to complete the project as specified in the
phased development plan.
   (B)   A vested right, once established, precludes any zoning action which
would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the
development or use of the property as set forth in an approved site specific
development plan or an approved phased development plan except:
      (1)   With written consent of the affected landowner.
      (2)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary
hearing, that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of
the property, if not corrected, would pose a serious threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in
the site specific development plan or the phased development plan.
      (3)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation
(appraised at fair market value) for all costs, expenses, and losses incurred.
      (4)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary
hearing, that the landowner or his representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations, which made a
difference in the approval by the county of the site specific development plan
or the phased development plan; or
      (5)   Upon the enactment of a state or federal law or regulation which
precludes development as contemplated in the site specific development plan or
the phased development plan.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.009 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter and its provisions governing the use of land, buildings, and
other matters as hereinafter set forth are hereby established and declared to
be in full force and effect from the passage date and the determined effective
date. Approved and adopted by the Vance County Board of Commissioners this 3rd
day of May, 2021 and shall become effective on and from May 3, 2021.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
DEFINITIONS AND WORD INTERPRETATIONS
§ 156.015 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In the construction of this chapter, the word
interpretations and definitions contained in this section shall be observed and
applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise. In further
amplification and for clarity of interpretation of the context, the following
definitions of word usage shall apply:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The word MAY is permissive.
      (4)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, corporation, trust and company as well as an individual.
      (5)   The word LOT shall include the words PIECE, PARCEL, TRACT, and
PLOT.
      (6)   The word BUILDING includes all structures of every kind, except
fences and walls, regardless of similarity to buildings.
      (7)   The phrase USED FOR shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR,
DESIGNED FOR, INTENDED FOR, and OCCUPIED FOR.
      (8)   The word MAP or ZONING MAP shall mean the official zoning map(s) of
Vance County, North Carolina.
      (9)   The term BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT shall mean the Zoning Board of
Adjustment of Vance County, North Carolina.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ABUTTING. Having property or zone lines in common; i.e., 2 lots are
abutting if they have property lines in common. Lots are also considered to be
abutting if directly opposite each other and separated by a street, alley,
railroad right-of-way, or stream.
      ABANDONMENT. That the use, structure, building, or sign is not used
occupied or otherwise operating for the intended nonconforming activity for the
period specified in §§
156.070 through
156.075. Periods of active re-modeling during which the use is closed for
repairs should not be considered in determining abandonment, provided the
remodeling is completed within a reasonable time period as indicated on the
zoning permit issued for re-modeling the nonconforming use. ABANDONMENT OF
SIGNS shall mean having electricity disconnected for lighted signs, no message,
or the failure to repair damaged signs.
      ACCESS. A way of approaching or entering a property. ACCESS also includes
ingress, the right to enter, and egress, and the right to leave.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE, or USE. A building, structure, or use, not
including signs, which is:
         (a)   Conducted or located on the same zoning lot as the principal
building, structure, or use, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere
in the chapter;
         (b)   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in area and purpose to, and
serves the principal use; and
         (c)   Either in the same ownership as the principal uses or is clearly
operated and maintained solely for the comfort, convenience, necessity, or
benefit of the occupants, employees, customers, or visitors of or to the
principal use.
      ACTIVE SOLAR SYSTEM. A solar energy system that transforms solar energy
into another form of energy or transfers heat from a collector to another
medium using mechanical, electrical, or chemical means.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Includes clubs and eating and drinking
establishments with nude or seminude entertainment or dancing; physical culture
establishments, such as but not limited to massage parlors, etc.; and
establishments that include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters,
adult motels and hotels, and similar establishments depicting/emphasizing
sexual activities and/or nudity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Includes clubs and eating and drinking
establishments with nude or seminude entertainment or dancing; physical culture
establishments, such as but not limited to massage parlors, etc.; and
establishments that include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters,
adult motels and hotels, and similar establishments depicting/emphasizing
sexual activities and/or nudity.
      AFFECTED LAND (relating to mining). The surface area of land that is
mined, the surface area of land associated with a mining activity so that soil
is exposed to accelerated erosion, the surface area of land on which overburden
and waste is deposited, and the surface area of land used for processing or
treatment plant, stockpiles, nonpublic roads, and selling ponds.
      AGRICULTURE. The practice of cultivating the soil, producing crops, and
raising livestock; such as but not limited to dairying, pasturage, viticulture,
horticulture, hydroponics, floriculture, aquaculture, truck farming, orchards,
forestry, and animal and poultry husbandry. However, the operation of any
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural
activities. See definition of BONA FIDE FARM for complete listing of activities
included within the definition of AGRICULTURE.
      AGRICULTURE SUPPORT AND SERVICES (AGRI-BUSINESS). Any support or service
(agri-business) store or any such use where the primary activity is supplying
farm hardware, seed, fertilizer, and/or that provides tractor or other
agricultural equipment sales/service.
      AGRI-TOURISM. A type of tourism, as a commercial practice, in which
farmers provide their farms as a venue for tours of the farming operations and/
or making the operation available to overnight guests. This type of commercial
venture allows visitors and guests the opportunity to experience "what it's
like to live on a farm, to see how food is produced and gain an appreciation
for natural ecosystems." This practice also provides farmers with additional
operating income to assist in preserving their respective farms operations as
well as preserving such farmlands and their native ecosystems.
      AIRPORT. A use that includes facilities for the flying of aircraft and
their maintenance for the private use of an individual and those used by ultra-
light aircraft. This definition includes flight schools.
      ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street and is not intended for general traffic.
      ALTER. To make any structural changes in the supporting or load-bearing
members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or floor
joists.
      ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which flashes, revolves, rotates or swings by
mechanical means, or which uses a change of lighting to depict action, or to
create a special effect or scene.
      ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving device that radiates or
captures electromagnetic waves (excluding radar signals).
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms intended for use as a residence by a
single household or family. Such a dwelling unit may be located in an apartment
house, duplex, or as an accessory use in a single family home or a commercial
building.
      APARTMENT HOTEL. A hotel in which at least 90% of the hotel
accommodations are occupied by permanent guests.
      APARTMENT HOUSE.  A building containing 3 or more dwelling units, except
where permitted as an accessory use.
      ASSEMBLY. A joining together of completely fabricated parts creating a
finished product.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES.  An establishment primarily engaged in 1 or
more of the following activities:
         (a)   General automotive repair or service;
         (b)   Automotive engine repair;
         (c)   Installation or repair of automotive transmissions;
         (d)   Installation or repair of automotive glass;
         (e)   Installation or repair of automotive exhaust systems;
         (f)   Repair of automotive tops, bodies and interiors; and
         (g)   Automotive painting and refinishing.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION). Any building or land used for
the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail any automobile fuels along
with accessories such as lubricants or tires, except that car washing,
mechanical and electrical repairs, and tire repairs shall only be performed
incidental to the conduct of the service station and are performed indoors.
There shall be no fuel pumps within 15 feet of any property line or street
right-of-way and incidental activities shall not include tire re-treading,
major bodywork, major mechanical work, or upholstery work.
      BANNER. A sign or outside advertising display having the character,
letters, illustrations, ornamentations, symbol, color, or visual representation
applied to cloth, paper, vinyl, fabric, plastic, or like kind of malleable
material with or without frame. Banners may be of permanent or temporary
nature, if permanent it shall be rigidly mounted to a pole or a building by
rigid frame at two or more edges. National flags, state or municipal flags, or
the official flag of any institution or business shall not be considered
banners.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. A form of temporary housing for travelers with
breakfast included, but no other meals available (no restaurant, but a dining
room may be used by overnight guests only, which is open only during breakfast
hours).
      BERM. Any elongated earthen mound designed or constructed to separate,
screen, or buffer adjacent land uses.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP'S).  BMP's are structural, managerial, or
vegetative practices that are used to protect and improve surface water,
groundwater, and overall water quality. These practices can utilize rock rip-
rap to stabilize stream banks, could include establishing grasses and plants on
raw soils, could incorporate gravel-lined livestock stream crossings, silt
fencing, and seeding/mulching. There are 3 categories of BMP's, which include:
         (a)   Structural. Include physical structures/materials that are used
to protect water quality and slow water velocities to prevent soil erosion
(rock rip-rap, silt fence, check dams, water diversions, retention-detention
basins, grade stabilizations).
         (b)   Managerial. Cover how projects are implemented, primarily the
order and fashion of carrying out a project (organic material disposal,
maintenance of other BMP's, sweeping to collect sediment, construction
practices to limit/prevent soil erosion).
         (c)   Vegetative. Used to prevent soil erosion/establish ground cover,
stabilize eroding soils (seeding, mulching, sod, tree planting, soil
management, grass waterways).
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. As created by ordinance, the convening body of
members appointed by the Vance County Board of Commissioners charged with
hearing and deciding on special use permits, variances of ordinance
regulations, and appeals from orders and interpretation of the Zoning
Administrator.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of Vance County.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel, inn, or motel, where, for
compensation, meals are served and lodging is provided.
      BONA FIDE FARM.  
         (a)   For purposes of this chapter, the terms AGRICULTURE,
AGRICULTURAL, and FARMING refer to all of the following:
            1.   The cultivation of soil for production and harvesting of
crops, including but not limited to fruits, vegetables, sod, flowers and
ornamental plants.
            2.   The planting and production of trees and timber.
            3.   Dairying and the raising, management, care, and training of
livestock, including horses, bees, poultry, and other animals for individual
and public use, consumption, and marketing.
            4.   Aquaculture as defined in G.S. § 106-758.
            5.   The operation, management, conservation, improvement, and
maintenance of a farm and the structures and buildings on the farm, including
building and structure repair, replacement, expansion, and construction
incident to the farming operation.
            6.   When performed on the farm, AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL, and
FARMING also include the marketing and selling of agricultural products,
agritourism, the storage and use of materials for agricultural purposes,
packing, treating, processing, sorting, storage, and other activities performed
to add value to crops, livestock, and agricultural items produced on the farm,
and similar activities incident to the operation of a farm.
            7.   A public or private grain warehouse or warehouse operation
where grain is held 10 days or longer and includes, but is not limited to, all
buildings, elevators, equipment, and warehouses consisting of one or more
warehouse sections and considered a single delivery point with the capability
to receive, load out, weigh, dry, and store grain.
         (b)   For purposes of determining whether a property is being used for
bona fide farm purposes, any of the following shall constitute sufficient
evidence that the property is being used for bona fide farm purposes:
            1.   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the
Department of Revenue.
            2.   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property
is eligible for participation in the present use value program pursuant to G.S.
§ 105-277.3.
            3.   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the
owner's or operator's most recent federal income tax return.
            4.   A forest management plan.
            5.   A Farm Identification Number issued by the United States
Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency.
         (c)   This chapter does not impose nor exercise any controls over
croplands, timberlands, pasturelands, orchards, idle (land that is currently
not cultivated or that is fallow-currently unplanted for crops) or other
farmlands. Nor does it exercise control over any farmhouse, barn, poultry
house, or other farm buildings, including tenant or other houses for persons
working on said farms, as long as such houses shall be in the same ownership as
the farm and located on the farm. Residences for non-farm use or occupancy and
other non-farm uses shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      BUFFER. A fence, wall, hedge, or other planted area or device used to
enclose, screen, or separate one use or lot from another.
      BUILDABLE AREA (BUILDING ENVELOPE). The space remaining on a lot after
the minimum open-space requirements (yards, setbacks) have been met.
      BUILDING. Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls
constructed or used for residence, business, industry, or other public or
private purposes, or accessory thereto, and including tents, lunch wagons,
dining cars, trailers, mobile homes, and attached or unattached carports
consisting of roof and supporting members, and similar structures whether
stationary or movable.
      BUILDING MARKER. A sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface, or made of bronze or other permanent material.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL (MAIN). A building in which is conducted the
principal use of the plot on which it is situated.
      BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The portion of a lot's area that is enclosed by the
foundation of buildings, plus any cantilevered upper floor.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the building. Spires, cupolas, chimneys, antennae attached to a
building, and/or projections from buildings, radios, TV, communications,
telecommunication, and water towers are not to be included in the calculations
of building height.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR SYSTEM. An active solar system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic or hot-water solar systems that are contained within
roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings.
      BUILDING LOT COVERAGE. The amount of net lot area or land surface area,
expressed in terms of a percentage that is covered by all principal buildings.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line on the front, rear, and sides of a lot,
set according to the zone regulations, which delineates the areas upon which a
structure may be built or maintained. At the time of application, all yard
setbacks are determined from the most recent Vance County Official Tax Map.
         (a)   Front yard setback. Shall be measured from the roadway right-of-
way as shown on tax maps.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setbacks. Shall be measured from the property
lines as shown on tax maps.
         (c)   Corner lot setbacks. Shall be measured from the roadway right-
of-ways it is adjacent to as on a flag lot, the BUILDING SETBACK LINE runs
parallel to the street and is measured from the point in the main portion of
the lot (i.e. the "flag" part of the lot, not the "pole" part), which is
closest to the street (minimum lot width must be met in this area, as well; if
the point closest to the street is a corner rather than a line, the setback
will have to extend as far as necessary to meet the required minimum lot
width).
      BUILDING SETBACKS. The minimum distance from the property line, right-of-
ways, and/or easements to closest projection of the exterior face of buildings,
walls, or other form of construction (i.e. decks, landings, terraces, porches,
and patios on grade).
      BUILT-UPON AREA. Shall include that portion of a development project that
is covered by impervious or partially impervious surfaces, including buildings,
pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g. tennis courts), etc. (Note:
Wooded slatted decks, golf courses, and the water area of a swimming pool are
not considered built-upon area).
      CAMP or CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the State of North Carolina,
which consists of one or more buildings, located on at least 20 acres of land,
which provides accommodations for more than 9 individuals and where the
activities of those individuals predominantly occur in supervised groups.
      CAMPER. A structure manufactured of metal, wood, canvas, plastic, or
other materials, or any combination thereof, mounted on wheels, which includes
a living area and is designed for travel, recreation or vacation use. A CAMPER
is not designed or intended to be used as a permanent dwelling and is
synonymous with a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. See also RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      CAMPGROUND. Land upon which shelters (such as tents, travel trailers,
campers, and recreational vehicles) are erected or located for occupation by
transients and/or vacationers. It may include such permanent structures and
facilities as are normally associated with the operation of a campground.
      CANOPY, MARQUEE, or AWNING. A roof-like cover extending over a sidewalk,
walkway, driveway, or other outdoor improvement for the purpose of sheltering
individuals or equipment from the weather. An awning is made of fabric or some
flexible fabric-like substance. Canopies and marquees are rigid structures of a
permanent nature.
      CANOPY SIGN. Any sign which is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy
or other fabric-like or plastic protective structure which is extended over a
door, window, or entranceway. A marquee is not a canopy.
      CAR WASH. A building, or portion thereof, containing facilities for
washing automobiles or other vehicles, using production line methods with a
chain conveyor, blower, or other mechanical devices; or providing space, water,
equipment, or soap for the complete or partial hand washing of automobiles,
whether washing is performed by the operator or by the customer.
      CEMETERY, CHURCH. All graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30
feet from all exterior property lines, and provided that no burial lots are
sold on a commercial basis.
      CEMETERY, COMMERCIAL. All graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30
feet from all exterior property lines, and provided that no burial lots are
sold on a commercial basis.
      CEMETERY, FAMILY. All graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30
feet from all exterior property lines, and provided that no burial lots are
sold on a commercial basis.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. An official certification that a premise
conforms to provisions of the State Building Code and may be used or occupied.
Such a certificate is granted for new construction or for alterations or
additions to existing structures or a change in use. Unless such a certificate
is issued, a structure cannot be occupied, but a certificate may be issued for
a portion of a structure ready for occupancy, such as separate dwelling or
commercial units in a structure with multiple units.
      CLUB OR LODGE (PRIVATE, NONPROFIT, CIVIC, OR FRATERNAL). A nonprofit
association of persons, who are bona fide members paying dues, which owns,
hires, or leases a building, or portion thereof, the use of such premises being
restricted to members and their guests. A board of directors, executive
committee, or similar body chosen by the members conducts the affairs and
management of such PRIVATE CLUB or LODGE. It shall be permissible to serve food
and meals on such premises, providing adequate dining room space and kitchen
facilities are available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their
guests shall be allowed, provided it is secondary and incidental to the
promotion of some other common objective of the organization, and further
provided that such sale of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the
applicable federal, state, and local laws.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A development process that keeps land in agriculture
or open space, and protects natural resources, by requiring buildings to be
concentrated on a specified, proportional area of a total acreage. For this
definition (and as relates to planned unit development - PUD) for zero side
and/or rear yard setbacks (townhouse and/or condominium development), a zero
side and/or rear yard setback is within the development only and does not refer
to the setbacks that abut adjoining properties (relates to the sides of
dwelling units that face open paces areas).
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity. This definition does not
include company nameplates or logos on instructional signs.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel or parcels of land, or an area of water, or a
combination of both land and water, within the site designated for development
and designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of residents of the
development or for the general public, not including streets or off-street
parking areas. COMMON OPEN SPACE shall be substantially free of structures, but
may contain such improvements as are in the plan as finally approved and are
appropriate for the benefit of residents of the development.
      CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit in which the ownership of the occupancy
rights to the dwelling unit is individually owned or for sale to an individual,
and such ownership is not inclusive of any land.
      CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign on a construction site during the period of
construction on which is printed or written the name of the owner, developer,
contractor, architect, planner, engineer, or development title.
      CONTRACTOR. One who accomplishes work or provides facilities under
contract to another. The major portion of a contractor’s work normally occurs
outside and away from his business location. As used in this chapter, the term
CONTRACTOR does not include general assembly, fabrication, or manufacture at
his business location.
      CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. A roadway which, in accordance with state and
federal guidelines, is designed to give preference to through traffic by
providing access connections at interchanges or selected public roads only,
with no direct access from private roads or driveways and with no crossing at
grade, including any interstate, state, or U.S. route.
      CONVALESCENT HOME (NURSING HOME). An institution, which is advertised,
announced, or maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing
nursing or convalescent care for persons unrelated to the licensee. A
CONVALESCENT HOME is a home for chronic or nursing patients who, on admission,
are not as a rule acutely ill and who do not usually require special facilities
such as an operating room, X-ray facilities, laboratory facilities, and
obstetrical facilities. A CONVALESCENT HOME provides care for persons who have
remedial ailments or other ailments for which continuing medical and skilled
nursing care is indicated; who, however, are not sick enough to require general
hospital care. Nursing care is their primary need, but they will require
continuing medical supervision. A major factor that distinguishes convalescent
homes is that the residents will require the individualization of medical care.
      CONVENIENCE CENTER. A county owned, operated and maintained or privately
owned, but county operated and maintained site for the collection of
residential waste and recycling.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A commercial building where a variety of items are
sold, which may include food, magazines, automobile accessories and maintenance
supplies, and other such items. In addition to the commercial building, other
services on the premises may include gasoline sales, and a coin operated
(automated) car wash.
      CONVERSION. Changing the original purpose of the building to the
different use.
      COVENANT. A private legal restriction on the use of land, which is
contained in the deed to the property or otherwise formally recorded. There may
be certain legal requirements for formal establishment of a covenant such as a
written document, a mutual interest in the property, that the covenant be
concerned with the use of the land rather than individual characteristics of
ownership, etc.
      DAY CARE FACILITY (ADULTS AND CHILDREN). A place other than an occupied
dwelling, which provides for the care of children or adults. Those receiving
care are not all related to each other by blood or marriage and are not legal
wards or foster children of the attendant adults, and for which care a payment,
fee, or grant is made. All state registration requirements and inspections
shall be met. If children are the primary clients of the day care home the
following shall apply: Any child care arrangement where 3 or more children
under 13 years of age receive care away from their own home by persons other
than relatives, guardians, or full-time custodians, or in the child’s own home
where  other unrelated children are in care. Child day care does not include
seasonal recreational programs operated for less than 4 consecutive months.
Child day care also does not include arrangements that provide only drop-in or
short-term child care for parents participating in activities that are not
employment related and where the parents are on the premises or otherwise
easily accessible.
      DAY CARE HOME (ADULTS AND CHILDREN). A dwelling in which a permanent
occupant of the dwelling provides for the care of children or adults. Those
receiving care are not all related to the occupant or to each other by blood or
marriage and are not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant
adults. Those receiving care and are not dependents of the occupant, do not
reside on the site. For the purpose of this chapter, such activities shall meet
all requirements for home occupations. All state registration requirements and
inspections shall be met. If children are the primary clients of the day care
home the following shall apply:
         (a)   Includes child care centers, family child care homes, and any
other child care arrangement not excluded by G.S. § 110-86(2), which provides
day care on a regular basis at least once a week for more than 4 hours, but
less than 24 hours, per day for more than 5 children under the age of 13 years,
not including the operator’s own school-aged children. It does not matter where
it is located, whether the same or different children attend, and whether or
not operated for profit.
         (b)   The following are not included: public schools; nonpublic
schools, as described in G.S. § 110-86(2); summer camps having children in
full-time residence; summer day camps; specialized activities or instruction
such as athletics, clubs, the arts, etc.; and Bible schools normally conducted
during vacation periods.
      DAY-NIGHT LEVEL (DNL). A measure of noise that is an outdoor, day-night
average (a weighted sound level).
      dBA. The sound pressure level, in decibels, as measured using the impulse
mode and “A” weighting network on a precision sound level meter.
      DEDICATION. The transfer of property from private to public ownership
with no compensation involved.
      DENSITY. The average number of families, persons, housing units, or
buildings per unit of land.
      DRIP LINE. A vertical line extending from the outermost edge of the tree
canopy or shrub branch to the ground.
      DRIVEWAY.  A private roadway located on a parcel or lot used for vehicle
access.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
portion thereof designed, arranged, or used or intended to be used for human
habitation. The term DWELLING shall not be deemed to include a travel trailer,
motel, hotel, tourist home, or other structures designed for transient or
seasonal vacation residence.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling that is joined to another dwelling at 1 or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling that is entirely surrounded by open space
on the same lot.
      DWELLING, DUPLEX. A building containing 2 dwelling units, other than
where a second dwelling unit is permitted as an accessory use.
      DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building containing 3 or more dwelling units,
except where permitted as an accessory use.
      DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY.  A building containing 1 dwelling unit only, but
may include 1 separate unit as an accessory use to be occupied only by
employees or relatives of the household. This definition does not include
manufactured home. (See definition of MANUFACTURED HOME in this section).
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, which are arranged, designed, or used
as living quarters for 1 family only. Individual bathrooms and complete kitchen
facilities, permanently installed, shall always be included for each DWELLING
UNIT.
      EASEMENT. A right given by the owner of land to another party for
specific limited use of that land. For example, a property owner may give an
easement on his property to allow utility facilities like power lines or
pipelines, to allow light to reach a neighbor’s windows, or to allow access to
another property.
      ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any business enterprise, whether as a
principal or an accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games
of chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of
value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
This term includes, but is not limited to internet cafes, internet sweepstakes,
beach sweepstakes or cybercafés. This does not include any lottery approved by
the State of North Carolina.
      ELECTRONICALLY CONTROLLED MESSAGE SIGN. A sign on which the copy changes
automatically on a lampbank, such that the message or display does not run
continuously in the travel mode, and any message or display remains stationary
for a minimum of two seconds. Any sign on which the message or display runs
continuously in the travel mode and/or on which any message or display does not
remain stationary for a minimum two seconds shall be considered a flashing
sign.
      ERECT. Build, construct, erect, rebuild, reconstruct, or re-erect any
building or other structure.
      FABRICATION. Manufacturing, excluding the refining or other initial
processing of basic raw materials, such as metal, ores, lumber, or rubber.
FABRICATION relates to stamping, cutting, or otherwise shaping the processed
materials into useful objects.
      FALL ZONE BUFFER. A land buffer around a tower base to provide for
containment of the tower to the site in the event that it falls.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption
living together as a single housekeeping unit. For the purpose of this chapter,
such persons may include gratuitous guests, also persons living together
voluntarily as a family in a dwelling as a single housekeeping group.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A facility that provides health, counseling, or related
services, including room, board, and care, to 6 or fewer handicapped persons in
a family-type environment. These handicapped persons include those with
physical, emotional, or mental disabilities, but not those who have been deemed
dangerous to themselves or to others.
      FENCE, SECURITY. A fence designed to keep out unauthorized persons and
kept locked when the area or facility is not in use or under observation.
Security fences are often equipped with a self-closing and positive self-
latching mechanism.
      FIREARM. A weapon, including but not limited to pistols, rifles, and
shotguns, capable of firing a projectile using an explosive charge as a
propellant.
      FIRING LINE. A line parallel to a target from which firearms or arrows
are discharged.
      FLAG LOT. An irregularly shaped lot where the buildable area of the lot
is connected to its street frontage by an arm of the lot.
      FLASHING SIGN. A type of animated sign which contains an intermittent,
blinking, scintillating, or flashing light source, or which includes the
illusion of intermittent or flashing light, or an externally mounted
intermittent light source. An electronically controlled message sign is not a
flashing sign.
      FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
      FLOOR AREA (for determining off-street parking and loading requirements).
The gross total horizontal area of all floors below the roof, including usable
basements, cellars, and accessory storage areas such as counters, racks, or
closets, but excluding, in the case of nonresidential facilities, arcades,
porticos, and similar areas open to the outside air which are accessible to the
general public and which are not designed or used as areas for sales, display,
storage, service, or production. However, FLOOR AREA, for the purpose of
measurement for off-street parking spaces shall not include: floor area devoted
to primarily storage purposes (except as otherwise noted above); floor area
devoted to off-street  parking or loading facilities, including aisles, ramps,
and maneuvering space; or basement floor other than area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods, or business or
professional offices.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The total floor area enclosed within a building.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which is supported by structures or supports
which are placed on, or anchored in the ground, and which structures or
supports are independent from any building or other structure.
      FREESTANDING TOWER. All towers which are placed on an independent base,
and erected without support from other structures. (Examples include: monopole
towers, and lattice/cage towers). NOTE: Guy-wires are not used in freestanding
towers.
      FRONTAGE. All of the real property abutting a street line measured along
the street right-of-way.
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading/unloading
of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing
facilities. (Term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales,
service facilities).
      GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. Any building or premises, except those described as a
private or parking garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or
where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for
remuneration, hire, or sale. If the garage is listed as a business in the Tax
Assessor’s Office by January 31 or each year and consists of 2 acres, 6
additional motor vehicles may be allowed.
      GARAGE, PARKING. Any building or premises, other than a private or
commercial garage, used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or space used as an accessory to, or a part
of, the main building permitted in any residential zone, providing for the
storage of motor vehicles, and in which no business, occupation, or service for
profit is conducted, except in an approved home occupation.
      GAS STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      GENERAL STORE. A retail establishment (up to 5,000 square feet) that
contains limited amounts of a wide variety of goods for retail sale, including,
but not limited to, milk, eggs, gloves, gardening supplies, fishing tackle, ice
cream and food snacks, refrigerated beverages, etc. It may contain a small
grill for food preparation but no indoor seating area. Does not have fuel
pumps.
      GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. Any sign erected by or on behalf of a governmental
body to post a legal notice, identify public property, convey public
information, and direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      GREENHOUSES (private - to include gardening). A small facility where
plants are grown for personal use, not for retail or commercial sale.
      GREENHOUSES AND NURSERIES (COMMERCIAL). An establishment primarily
engaged in the retail sale of trees, shrubs, other plants, seeds, bulbs,
mulches, soil conditioners, fertilizers, pesticides, garden tools, and other
garden supplies to the general public. These establishments primarily sell
products purchased from others, but may sell some plants which are grown at the
establishment.
      GREENWAY.  A corridor of open space that connects different parts of a
community (county) and offers opportunities for walking, bicycling, other forms
of passive recreation, and non-motorized transportation. Greenways help to
promote a pollutant-free environment in reducing the need for modes of travel
dependent on fuel.
      GRID-TIED SOLAR SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar system that is connected to
an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
      GROUNDCOVER.  Any natural vegetative growth or other material that
renders the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
      HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this section, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless
otherwise specified.
      HELIPORT. A use that includes facilities for the flying of helicopters
and associated rotary-wing aircraft and their maintenance for the private use
of an individual and those used by flight schools.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic zone or a zone preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic zone;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places;
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior, or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      HOME CARE UNIT. A facility meeting all the requirements of the State of
North Carolina for boarding and care of not more than 5 persons who are not
critically ill and do not need professional medical attention, and is located
on a lot of at least 1 acre in size.
      HOME FOR THE AGED or REST HOME. A place for the care of aged and infirmed
persons whose principal need is a home with such sheltered and custodial care
as their age and infirmities require. In such homes, medical care is only
occasional or incidental, such as may be required in the home of any individual
or family for persons who are aged and infirm. The residents of such homes will
not, as a rule, have remedial ailments or other ailments for which continuing
skilled planned medical and nursing care is indicated. A major factor
distinguishing those homes is that the residents may be given congregate
services (distinguished from individualization of medical care required in
"patient" care). A person may be accepted for sheltered or custodial care
because of a disability, which does not require continuing, planned medical
care, but which does make him unable to maintain himself in individual living
arrangements. For the purposes of this chapter, a HOME FOR THE AGED shall also
be considered a REST HOME.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on entirely within
a dwelling or accessory building on the same lot by 1 or more occupants
thereof, providing the following (no retail sales permitted):
         (a)   That such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for dwelling purposes;
         (b)   That no more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling is
used for such purposes;
         (c)   That there is no outside or window display;
         (d)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the home occupation other
than 1 non-illuminated sign, not exceeding 3 square feet in area.
         (e)   That no mechanical or electrical equipment is installed or used
other than is normally used for domestic, professional, or hobby purposes, or
for infrequent consultation or emergency treatment; and
         (f)   That not more than 1 person not a resident of the dwelling is
employed in connection with the home occupation. A doctor or dentist may have 1
nurse or receptionist employed in his office.
         (g)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and
required parking shall be met off the street and other than in a required front
yard.
         (h)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of electrical
interference no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises.
      HOME OCCUPATION OF AN INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL NATURE. A home occupation
in a rural area that may be of a heavier commercial or industrial nature than a
typical home occupation. The business owner resides on the premises, but the
amount of floor area used and the type of equipment used may be different than
the standard home occupation and more than 1 person not a resident of the
dwelling may be employed. Such home occupations may include commercial or
industrial uses listed in the Table of Permitted Uses, §
156.033.
      HORSE FARM. A bona fide farm that, as a primary activity, conducts
business by engaging in any 1 or more of the activities of breeding, training,
buying, selling, showing, racing, and boarding of horses, including associated
accessory activities.
      HOTEL. A building or other structure kept, maintained, advertised as, or
held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are supplied
for pay to transient or permanent guests or tenants. Rooms are furnished for
the accommodation of such guests, and the hotel may or may not have 1 or more
dining rooms, restaurants, or cafes where meals are served. Such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms, restaurants, or cafes, if existing, are
located in the same building. Entry to sleeping rooms shall be from the
interior of the building.
      IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A permanent sign announcing the name of a
subdivision, manufactured home park, campground/RV park, multifamily or
townhouse development, planned unit development, church, school, park or quasi-
public structure or facility.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA. That portion of the land area that allows little
or no infiltration of precipitation into the soil. Impervious areas include,
but are not limited to, that portion of a development project covered by
buildings, areas paved with concrete, asphalt, or brick, gravel roads, patios,
driveways, streets, and recreation facilities such as tennis courts (wooden
slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are considered pervious).
See example illustration:
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO. The algebraic ratio calculated to determine the
percentage of open land versus built-upon area on any tract(s) of land used for
the purpose of actual or anticipated residential or nonresidential development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dff846a6ef043587dc72ade50ee042a76585a9c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.png]
      INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign that provides only information for the
convenience and necessity of the public. Company logos may be displayed on such
signs but must not occupy more than 25% of the sign area. Incidental signs
include directories, entrance, exit and other necessary directional signs.
      INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use or service that is unsuitable for direct
association and/or contiguity with certain other uses because it is
contradictory, incongruous, or discordant.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK.  A special or exclusive type of planned industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a community of industries, providing them
with all necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among
compatible neighbors. Industrial parks may be promoted or sponsored by private
developers, community organizations, or government organizations.
      INN (shall also refer to what is termed a Country Inn). An establishment
meeting the definition of hotel except that it is designed for a more leisurely
paced lifestyle with no more than 25 guestrooms, and with a maximum of 10% of
the total floor area (excluding guestrooms and hallways) in use as accessory
commercial uses, such as gift shops, newsstands, or restaurants.
      INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, designed to be self-propelled, which by
virtue of broken or missing component parts, is no longer capable of self-
propulsion. For the purpose of this chapter, any vehicle that is registered
with the North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles with a current North
Carolina motor vehicle registration license affixed to it shall not be
considered inoperative.
      INTERESTED PERSONS AND/OR PARTIES.  
         (a)   In reference to filing for a variance, rezoning, and/or special
use permit (definition shall also apply to the quasi - judicial process of
hearings held by the Board of Adjustments, G.S.§ 160D-406), unless otherwise
specified in this chapter, applications for review and approval may be
initiated by an interested person/party who is:
            1.   The owner of the property that is the subject of the
application;
            2.   The owner's authorized agents; or
            3.   Any review or decision-making body (inclusive of the Board of
Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, and Planning Board) as specified in this
chapter.
         (b)   When an authorized agent files an application under this section
on behalf of a property owner, the agent shall provide the county with written
documentation that the owner of the property has authorized the filing of the
application. When review or a decision-making body initiates action under this
chapter, it does so without prejudice toward the outcome.
      JUNKYARD. Any area, in whole or in part, where waste or scrap materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags,
vehicles, rubber tires, and bottles. A JUNKYARD includes an auto-wrecking yard,
but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings. A
JUNKYARD for vehicles is defined as 4 or more junk, inoperable or unlicensed
vehicles stored on the property. See definition of GARAGE, COMMERCIAL for
exception.
      KENNEL. Any facility used for the purpose of boarding animals, not
including horses, cattle, swine, sheep, goats, geese or peafowl. Kennels may
conduct other such incidental activities, such as the sale of animals,
treatment of the animals, grooming or cleaning, and the sale of pet supplies.
This definition shall include any establishment wherein any person engages in
business or practice, for fee, of boarding, breeding, grooming, letting for
hire, or training of more than 3 domesticated animals at any 1 time; or an
establishment wherein any person engages in the business or practice, for a
fee, of selling more than 1 litter of domesticated animals at any 1 time or the
selling of any 3 individual domesticated animals (not defined as litter herein)
at any 1 time. DOMESTICATED ANIMALS, for the purpose of this chapter, shall be
defined as dogs, cats, and other generally accepted household pets. LITTER, for
the purpose of this chapter, shall be defined as the offspring resulting from
the breeding of 2 domesticated animals. The following shall not constitute the
operation of a kennel as defined above and in no way shall this provision
regulate the following (for personal use):
         (a)   The ownership of domesticated animals as household pets;
         (b)   The ownership of domesticated animals for hunting or tracking
purposes;
         (c)   The ownership of domesticated animals for the purpose of
exhibiting at shows, obedience or field trials; and
         (d)   The ownership of domesticated animals for the purpose of
protection or guarding of residences or commercial establishments.
      LANDFILL, DEMOLITION. A landfill facility for stumps, limbs, leaves,
concrete, brick, wood, uncontaminated earth and other solid wastes resulting
from construction, demolition or land clearing.
      LANDFILL, LAND CLEARING INERT DEBRIS, (LCID) MAJOR. A landfill facility,
greater than two acres, for the land disposal of land clearing waste, concrete,
brick, concrete block, uncontaminated soil, gravel and rock, untreated and
unpainted wood, and yard trash, as defined in 15A NCAC 13B.0101
      LANDFILL, LAND CLEARING INERT DEBRIS, (LCID) MINOR. A landfill facility,
less than two acres, for the land disposal of land clearing waste, concrete,
brick, concrete block, uncontaminated soil, gravel and rock, untreated and
unpainted wood, and yard trash as defined in 15A NCAC 13B.0101.
      LANDFILL, SANITARY. A facility where waste material and refuse is placed
in the ground in layers and covered with earth or some other suitable material
each work day. Sanitary landfills shall also conform to requirements of 15A
NCAC 13B regarding solid waste management.
      LANDSCAPED AREA. A portion of the site or property containing vegetation
to exist after construction is completed. Landscaped areas can include, but are
not limited to, natural areas, buffers, lawns, and plantings.
      LATTICE/CAGE TOWER. A structure consisting of connected sections of metal
supports. Towers of this type typically are 250 - 300 feet in height and
require no supporting guy-wires.
      LIFE CARE CENTER. A facility which combines the functions of any
combination of a retirement community, rest home, nursing home, and
convalescent home, providing residential facilities for independent living,
assisted care, and, possibly, nursing care.
      LOADING AREA OR SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area logically and conveniently
located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected
to be used, and accessible to such vehicles. Required off-street loading space
is not to be included as off-street parking space in computing required off-
street parking space.
      LOT. A parcel of land in undivided ownership occupied, or intended for
occupancy, by a main building or group of main buildings together with any
accessory buildings, including such yards, open spaces, width, and area as are
required by this chapter, either shown on a plat of record or described by
metes and bounds and recorded with the Register of Deeds. For the purpose of
this chapter, the word LOT shall be taken to mean any number of contiguous lots
or portions thereof, upon which 1 or more main structures for a single use are
erected or are to be erected and their accessory buildings.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting the intersection of 2 or more streets or a
lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot at the apex meet at any angle of less than 135
degrees. In such a case the apex of the curve forming the corner lot shall be
considered as the intersection of street lines for the purpose of this chapter,
such as in corner visibility requirements.
      LOT, DEPTH. The depth of a lot is the average distance between the front
and back lot lines measured at right angles to its frontage and from corner to
corner.
      LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on 2 streets.
      LOT, WIDTH. The straight line distance between the points where the
building setback line intersects the 2 side lot lines.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot. Where a lot of record includes a
right-of-way, the lot lines are presumed not to extend into the right-of-way.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the Vance County Register of Deeds, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds by the owner or predecessor in title
thereto.
      MACHINE AND WELDING SHOP. This industry comprises establishments known as
machine shops primarily engaged in machining metal parts on a job or order
basis. Generally machine shop jobs are low volume using machine tools such as
lathes (including computer numerically controlled); automatic screw machines;
and machines for boring, grinding, and milling. This industry also comprises
establishments primarily engaged in the repair and maintenance of commercial
and industrial machinery and equipment. Establishments in this industry either
sharpen/install commercial and industrial machinery blades and saws; or provide
welding (e.g., automotive, general) repair services; or repair agricultural and
other heavy and industrial machinery and equipment (e.g., forklifts and other
materials handling equipment ,machine tools, commercial refrigeration
equipment, construction equipment, and mining machinery).
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure composed of 1 or more
components, each of which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of
42 United States Code Section 5401, the National Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards Act, and is to be used as a place for human habitation,
but which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device
allowing it to be moved other than for the purpose of moving to a permanent
site, and which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any
wheel or axles. A mobile home, a recreational vehicle or travel trailer are not
a manufactured home.
      MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT.  A general category of development that
includes manufactured home subdivisions and manufactured home parks.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership on which
3 or more manufactured homes are located where spaces are offered for use,
lease or rent for the purpose of locating manufactured homes. Also referred to
as land-lease or rental communities. A group development site with required
improvements and utilities for the long-term location of manufactured homes
which may include services and facilities for the residents.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A designated area of land within a manufactured
home park designed for the accommodation of a single manufactured dwelling home
in accordance with the requirements of the Vance County Manufactured Housing
Ordinance,
Chapter 152 of this Code.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and/or intended for
the sale of lots for siting manufactured homes. Manufactured home subdivisions
shall conform to the same land development and site improvement standards that
apply to conventional subdivisions.
      MENU SIGN. A permanent on-premises sign located at businesses that
provide drive-up or drive-through services such as fast food restaurants,
banks, laundries, etc. Menu signs shall be located so as not to create vehicle
stacking problems which will interfere with the flow of traffic.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE/STORAGE FACILITIES.  A building, or group of buildings, in
a controlled access and/or fenced compound that contains varying sizes of
individual, compartmentalized and controlled access stalls or lockers for the
dead storage of a customer's goods or wares. No sales, service, or repair
activities other than the rental of storage, as defined in this section) units
are permitted on the premises.
      MINING. The breaking of the surface soil in order to facilitate or
accomplish the extraction or removal of minerals, ores or other solid matter.
Any activity or process constituting all or part of a process for the
extraction or removal of minerals, ores, soils, and other solid matter from
their original location. The preparation, washing, cleaning, or other treatment
of minerals, ores, or other solid matter so as to make them suitable for
commercial, industrial or construction use. Mining does not include:
         (a)   Those aspects of deep mining not having significant effect on
the surface, where the affected land does not exceed 1 acre in area.
         (b)   Excavation or grading when conducted solely in aid of on-site
farming or of on-site construction for purposes other than mining, such as
constructing a residence, garage, commercial or industrial building.
         (c)   Mining operations where the affected land does not exceed 1 acre
in area.
         (d)   Plants engaged in processing minerals produced elsewhere and
whose refuse does not affect more than 1 acre of land.
         (e)   Removal of overburden and mining of limited amounts of any ores
or mineral solids when done only for the purpose and to the extent necessary to
determine the location, quantity, or quality of any natural deposit, provided
that no ores or mineral solids removed during exploratory excavation or mining
are sold, processed for sale, or consumed in the regular operation of a
business, and provided further that the affected land resulting from any
exploratory excavation does not exceed 1 acre in area.
      MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built home designed to be used as a
year-round residential dwelling and built prior to enactment of the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, which became effective
June 15, 1976. A mobile home does not meet the criteria for a manufactured
home. A recreational vehicle or travel trailer is not a mobile home.
      MOBILE OFFICE. A structure identical to a mobile home, as defined in this
section, or a modular home, as defined in this section, that has been converted
to, or originally designed and constructed for, commercial or office use.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory-built home certified as meeting the North
Carolina Building Codes and associated codes as applicable to modular housing.
Once certified by the state, modular homes shall be subject to the same
standards as a site-built home.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A single pole structure that supports telecommunication
equipment. These towers are typically less than 200 feet in height. Said towers
have been shown to be resistant to wind and ice conditions that could cause
tower collapse.
      MOTEL. A building or other structure kept, maintained, advertised as, or
held out to the public to be, a place where sleeping accommodations are
supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests or tenants and where rooms
are furnished for the accommodation of such guests. Entry to sleeping rooms may
be from the interior or exterior of the building. Food may be served in dining
rooms, restaurants, or cafes, which may be located in the same building as the
sleeping rooms or may be in 1 or more separate buildings.
      NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter
or any amendment to it (and not created for the purpose of evading the
restrictions of this chapter) that cannot meet the minimum area or lot width or
depth requirements of the zone in which the lot is located.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to size, height,
location, design, construction, or other requirements of this section. The
nonconformity may result from adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
amendment.
      NONCONFORMING USE. The use of a building, mobile home, or land which does
not conform to the use regulation of this chapter for the zone in which it is
located, either at the effective date of this chapter or as a result of
subsequent amendments which may be incorporated.
      NONCONFORMITY, DIMENSIONAL. A nonconforming situation that occurs when
the height, size, or minimum floor space of a structure, or the relationship
between an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines
(i.e. setbacks), does not conform to the regulations applicable to the zone in
which the property is located.
      NUISANCE.  Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of
property, endangers personal health or safety, or is offensive to the senses
(sight, smell, touch, hearing, and taste).
      OFF-GRID SOLAR SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar system in which the circuits
energized by the solar system are not electrically connected in any way to
electric circuits that are served by an electric utility company.
      OFF-PREMISE OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any outdoor sign, display, light,
device, figure, painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard, or any
other thing which is designed, intended or used to advertise or inform, any
part of the advertising or information contents of which is visible from any
place on the main-traveled way of the interstate or primary system or other
public right of way, whether the same be permanent or portable installation.
      ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that publicizes and directs attention to a
profession, commodity, activity, product, service or entertainment conducted,
sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located. ON-PREMISES SIGNS
include pole and ground mounted signs.
      OPAQUE. In reference to screening, buffering, and fencing, this term
shall mean "not able to be seen through from one side to the other".
      ORDINANCE. This, the zoning chapter, including any amendments. Whenever
the effective date of the chapter is referred to, the reference includes the
effective date of any amendment to it.
      OUTDOOR DISPLAY. The placement of merchandise normally associated with
the commercial or industrial use outside for public display.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The placement/storage of goods, equipment, or material,
such as junk vehicles, junk appliances and other such items, trash, and other
debris outside of an enclosed building for a period of more than 48 consecutive
hours shall be considered outdoor storage. OUTDOOR STORAGE does not refer to
licensed vehicles in use by the person occupying the property, or other minor/
incidental storage, such as items specifically designed for outdoor use
including; lawn furniture, outdoor grill, swing set, lawn care equipment, which
would not have a negative impact on the health, safety and general welfare of
adjacent property owners and land uses.
      PARKING LOT OR AREA.  An area or plot of land used for, or designated
for, the parking or storage of vehicles, either as a principal use or as an
accessory use.
      PARKING SPACE. A storage space of not less than 160 square feet for 1
automobile, plus the necessary access space.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  A parking space located outside of a
dedicated street right-of-way.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee,
a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
      PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. An active solar energy system that converts solar
energy directly into electricity.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A form of development usually
characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing units,
clustering buildings, providing common open space, density increases, and mix
of building types/land uses. It permits the planning of a project and the
calculation of densities over the entire development, rather than on an
individual lot-by-lot basis. For this definition (and as relates to cluster
development) for zero side and/or rear yard setbacks (townhouse and/or
condominium development), a zero side and/or rear yard setback is within the
development only and does not refer to the setbacks that abut adjoining
properties (relates to the sides of dwelling units that face open paces areas).
      POLITICAL SIGN. A sign advertising a candidate or issue to be voted upon
on a specific election day, which is attached to the ground by a stake or
stakes, but which excludes any other sign defined as a portable sign. See
TEMPORARY SIGN definition below, this type of sign shall not be placed more
than 30 days prior to the event/election and must be removed within 10 days
following the event/election.
      PORTABLE SIGN. A sign not permanently attached to any surface.
      PRE-EXISTING TOWER. Any tower erected or for which a permit has been
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      PRIVATE ROAD OR STREET. Any road or street which is not publicly owned
and maintained and is used for access by the occupants of the development,
their guests, and the general public.
      PROFESSIONAL OR OCCUPATIONAL SIGN OR NAME PLATE. A sign that publicizes
and directs attention to a home occupation, rural family occupation, or to a
profession.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign that is end mounted or otherwise attached to an
exterior wall of a building that forms an angle with said wall.
      PROPERTY. All real property, or a lot or a number of adjacent lots on
which is situated a land use, a building, or group of buildings designed as a
unit or on which a building or a group of buildings are to be constructed which
is subject to the land-use regulations of the county.
      REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign that advertises the sale, rent, or lease of
property.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  
         (a)   A vehicle which is:
            1.   Built on a single chassis;
            2.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
            3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
truck; and
            4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
         (b)   Recreational vehicles and camping trailers shall not be used as
temporary living quarters for more than 90 days in any 12-month period except
if these are placed in an approved RV/Camper park or in the event of an
emergency or disaster when a governmental grant/program provides a temporary
recreational vehicle while the damaged/destroyed home is being replaced.
Recreational vehicles must be ready, willing, and able to move off-site within
48 hours.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area owned and maintained by a municipality, the State
of North Carolina, a public utility, a railroad, or a private entity for the
placement of such utilities and/or facilities for the passage of vehicles/
pedestrians, including roads, pedestrian walkways, utilities, or railroads.
      SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA (EARTH STATION). A dish antenna, or earth station,
is defined as an accessory structure and shall mean a combination of:
         (a)   Antenna or dish antenna whose purpose is to receive
communication or other signals from orbiting satellites and other
extraterrestrial sources;
         (b)   A low-noise amplifier which is situated at the focal point of
the receiving component and whose purpose is to magnify and transfer signals;
and
         (c)   A coaxial cable whose purpose is to carry the signals into the
interior of the building.
      SELF-SERVICE GASOLINE PUMP. A gasoline or diesel fuel dispensing pump,
which is, operated by the customer who pays the charge to an attendant or
cashier.
      SELF-SUPPORTING TOWER. See FREESTANDING TOWER.
      SETBACK. The required minimum distance between every structure and the
lot lines of the lot on which it is located (measured from the road right of
way in the front and property lines on the remaining portions of the property).
      SHOPPING CENTER. A commercial area with 1 or more buildings or lots and
designed as a unit to house 2 or more businesses offering products and/or
services to the public.
      SHOOTING RANGE FACILITY. A public or private facility, including
individual shooting ranges, safety fans or shotfall zones, structures, parking
areas, and other associated improvements, designed for the purpose of providing
a place for the discharge of various types of firearms or the practice of
archery. Does not include incidental target practice areas on private property.
      SHOOTING STATION. A fixed point from which firearms or arrows are
discharged.
      SIGN. Any words, lettering, numerals, parts of letters or numerals,
figures, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, or trade names or
trademarks by which anything is known (including any surface, fabric or other
material or structure designed to carry such devices such as are used to
designate or attract attention to an individual, firm, an association, a
corporation, a profession, a business, or a commodity or product) which are
exposed to public view and used to attract attention.
      SIGN AREA. The area of a sign shall be measured in conformance with the
following:
         (a)   The area of the face of a sign shall be calculated to include
the outermost part that forms the shape or display. Necessary supports and trim
moldings shall not be included when calculating the area of the sign. Aprons
below advertising signs shall not exceed 3 feet in height. Aprons the sign
company responsible for the sign.
         (b)   In computing the area of a sign, standard mathematical formulas
for common regular geometric shapes (triangle, parallelogram, circle and
ellipse, or combinations thereof) shall be used.
         (c)   In the case of an irregularly shaped sign or a sign with letters
and/or symbols affixed to or painted, displayed or incorporated into or upon a
wall, canopy, awning or decorative facade of a building, the area of the sign
shall be the area within the singular continuous perimeter, outlining the
limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar
character.
         (d)   Back-to-back and V-type signs mounted so as to be connected and
not spread more than 15 feet will be considered as one sign location when
calculating horizontal separation between signs.
Advertising signs (billboards) shall not be stacked, horizontally or
vertically.
      SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground elevation
where the sign is located, to the highest point of the sign except as follows:
When the ground elevation is different from the elevation of an adjacent road,
the height of a sign shall be measured from the road elevation of the adjacent
road at the edge of the pavement.
      SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, with supporting text showing uses and
structures proposed for a parcel of land as required by the regulations
involved. It includes such things as lot lines, streets, building sites,
reserved open space, buildings, major landscape features - both natural and
manmade and depending on requirements, the locations of proposed utility lines.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR (ACCESSORY). A device, structure or a part of a device or
structure for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy
into another source for direct power consumption and interconnection with the
power grid to offset energy consumption of a principal use. The device may be
roof-mounted or ground-mounted as an accessory use.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR (SURFACE). Any part of a solar collector that absorbs
solar energy for use in the collector's energy transformation process.
Collector surface does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
      SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected
in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or provide for
the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, electricity generating, or water heating. SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS may
include, but not be limited to, solar farms and any of several devices that
absorb and collect solar radiation for use as a source of energy.
      SOLAR FARM. A facility used to convert solar energy into electrical power
for interconnection with the power grid for primarily off-site energy
consumption. Also referred to as a solar energy generation facility, solar
power plant or solar photovoltaic farm.
      SOLAR-MOUNTING DEVICES. Devices that allow the mounting of a solar
collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
      SOUND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM FOR AGRICULTURAL LAND AND HORTICULTURAL LAND
(per G.S. § 105-277.3).  
         (a)   If the property owner demonstrates any one of the following
factors with respect to agricultural land or horticultural land, then the land
is operated under a sound management program:
         1.   Enrollment in and compliance with an agency administered and
approved farm management plan;
         2.   Compliance with a set of best management practices;
         3.   Compliance with a minimum gross income per acre test;
         4.   Evidence of net income from the farm operation;
         5.   Evidence that farming is the farm operator's principal source of
income;
            6.   Certification by a recognized agricultural or horticultural
agency within the county that the land is operated under a sound management
program.
         (b)   Operation under a sound management program may also be
demonstrated by evidence of other similar factors. As long as a farm operator
meets the sound management requirements, it is irrelevant whether the property
owner received income or rent from the farm operator.
      SOUND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM FOR FORESTLAND (PER G.S. § 105-277.3). If the
owner of forestland demonstrates that the forestland complies with a written
sound forest management plan for the production and sale of forest products,
then the forestland is operated under a sound management program.
      SPECIAL USE. A use that, given special characteristics related to its
operation or installation, is permitted in a zone subject to approval by the
Board of County Commissioners, and subject to special requirements, different
from those requirements for the zone in which the special use may be located.
When required, a special use permit:
         (a)   Shall have, as its purpose, to create a set of conditions under
which a certain use could become compatible or acceptable, which current
regulations do not allow.
         (b)   Shall have the process is to allow review of all pertinent
information by the public, technical staff members, appointed officials and
elected officials and to allow each entity the opportunity to suggest, or
require, conditions which will mitigate the adverse impact of the use.
         (c)   Shall not be construed to be a variance to any existing
regulation.
         (d)   Does not waive or alter any portion of the existing regulations.
         (e)   Additional requirements shall be specific to the use or
structure under consideration.
         (f)   As a request, shall specify the nature of the proposed
development and shall propose conditions to assure compatibility between the
development and the surrounding neighborhood. General requirements would
include:
            1.   A request for a special use permit shall be considered only
upon request by the property owner(s).
            2.   All standards and requirements shall be met, except to the
extent that the conditions imposed are more restrictive than that standard or
requirement.
            3.   The use shall not endanger the public health or safety if
located where proposed and developed according to the plan submitted.
            4.   Additional requirements shall be specific to the use or
structure under consideration.
            5.   No alterations to the use or structure shall be permitted,
except as specifically reviewed and approved.
            6.   Changes shall require a new request and shall be treated as a
new and separate request.
            7.   The use shall not injure the value of adjoining or abutting
property or the use is a public necessity.
            8.   The location and character of the use, if developed according
to the plans submitted, will be in harmony with the area in which it is to be
located and generally in conformity with the County’s Land Use Plan.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within 180
days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a
site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles,
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home, as defined in this section, modular or a
mobile home, as defined in this section, on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
      STEALTH TOWER.  A hidden tower, where the telecommunication equipment is
placed in such a way as to not be obvious (typically incorporated into the
supporting structure and assumes the color, texture, and appearance of the
supporting structure as in placement in/on a church steeple, a water tower, or
on a tall building).
      STORAGE. The deposition of commodities/items for the purpose of future
use or safekeeping.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above
it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling above it.
      STREET.  
         (a)   A thoroughfare, which affords the principal, means of access to
abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard,
highway, road, and any other thoroughfare, except an alley. Examples of street
classifications are as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dff846a6ef043587dc72ade50ee042a76585a9c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.png]
            1.   Subcollector street. Street whose principal function is to
provide access to abutting properties, but which is also designed to be used or
is used to connect local streets with collector or higher classification
streets.
            2.   Public street. Dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic which:
               a.   Has been accepted by NCDOT for maintenance; or
               b.   Is not yet accepted, but in which the roadway design and
construction have been approved under public standards for vehicular traffic.
Alleys are specifically excluded.
            3.   Private street. Vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered
for dedication as a public street, but resembling a cul-de-sac or a local
street by carrying traffic from a series of driveways to the public street
system.
            4.   Cul-de-sac street. Short local street having one end open to
traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
            5.   Local street. Street with primary function to provide access
to abutting properties.
            6.   Private lane. Private cul-de-sac for vehicular traffic serving
4 or fewer residential lots in a minor subdivision, maintained pursuant to G.S.
§ 136-102.6.
            7.   Private drive. Vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered
for dedication as a public street, providing access to parking lot(s) for 2 or
more principal buildings in a group housing or group nonresidential
development.
            8.   Collector street. Street whose principal function is to carry
traffic between cul-de-sac, local, and subcollector streets, and streets of
higher classification, but which may also provide direct access to abutting
properties.
            9.   Major thoroughfare street. Major thoroughfares consist of
interstate, other freeway, expressway, or parkway links, and major streets that
provide for the expeditious movement of high volumes of traffic within and
through urban areas.
            10.   Minor thoroughfare street. Minor thoroughfares collect
traffic from collector, subcollector, and local streets and carrying it to the
major thoroughfare system. Minor thoroughfares may be used to supplement the
major thoroughfare system by facilitating movement of moderate volumes of
traffic within and through urban areas and may also serve abutting property.
         (b)   A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic. The word STREET shall include the word ROAD. This definition shall
include reference to a PRIVATE ROAD (a vehicular right-of-way and street or
road not intended for dedication to or maintenance by NCDOT or other
appropriate public agency) and PUBLIC ROAD (a dedicated public right-of-way for
vehicular traffic which:
            1.   Has been accepted by NCDOT for maintenance; or
            2.   Is not yet accepted, but in which the roadway design and
construction have been approved under public standards for vehicular traffic).
Alleys are specifically excluded.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, except for repair
or replacement.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected, including a building; a
manufactured (modular) or mobile home; storage tank for gases or liquids; or
any other permanent or temporary, man-made facilities, including swimming
pools, walls, signs, and storage buildings.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development whether immediate or future and includes all division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or change in existing streets;
however, the following is not included within this definition and are not
subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to the Vance County Subdivision
Ordinance (Exemptions):
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the county as shown in
its subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for
widening or opening streets;
         (d)   The division of a tract into single ownership where the entire
area is no greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, if no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and if the Subdivision Ordinance; and
         (e)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Ch. 29.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
See also SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures, which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project of improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      SURFACE DANGER ZONE. Any area that may reasonably expect projectile
impact resulting from direct fire, including misdirected and accidental
discharges, and ricochets from any firearm or bow, which takes into
consideration all mitigation efforts as submitted by the applicant and
determined by a certified engineer.
      TARGET. Any object or area which is used as the intended recipient of the
projectiles fired from a firearm or bow.
      TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. Any structure designed and built to support 1 or
more antennae, including self-supporting and guyed lattice/cage towers, or
monopole towers used for the support of PCS and cellular mobile services. This
definition does not address commercial radio and television towers and does not
include personal satellite dishes or amateur radio antennas.
      TEMPORARY. Anything temporary is to exist less than 6 months.
         (a)   Commercial, temporary outdoor sales include uses such as flea
markets, auctions, and fireworks sales tents.
         (b)   Temporary miscellaneous sales include such uses other than flea
markets, auctions, fireworks sales tents, but does not include what are termed
yard/garage sales (no restrictions imposed on small scale/individual home yard/
garage sales).
      TEMPORARY SIGNS. Temporary signs are those signs (inclusive of banners as
defined in this section) that relate to such events as elections, farm
auctions, yard sales, agricultural production sales, annual charitable, civic
or fraternal events, horse shows; festivals, bona fide grand openings and model
home show openings.
      TOURIST HOME. Any dwelling occupied by the owner or operator in which
rooms are rented to guests, for lodging of transients and travelers for
compensation, and where food may be served, other than a bed and breakfast.
      TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground to the
uppermost point of the tower, including the antennas and lightning rod.
      TOWER SETBACK. A buffer between the tower structure and adjoining
property owners.
      TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit as part of a structural arrangement of 4 or
more single family attached dwellings joined by common walls on not more than 2
opposite sides with the uppermost story being a portion of the same dwelling
located directly beneath at the grade or first floor level and having exclusive
individual ownership and occupant rights of each dwelling unit including, but
not limited to, the land area directly beneath the dwelling. Said units shall
have separate entrances to the outside and are entirely separated from each
other by walls that meet North Carolina Building Standards.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure originally designed to transport
something or intended for human occupancy for short periods of time. TRAILERS
shall include the following:
         (a)   House trailer. A vehicular, portable structure built on a
wheeled chassis, designed to be towed by a self-propelled vehicle for use for
travel, recreation, or vacation purposes, having a body width 10 feet or less
or a body length 32 feet or less when equipped for road travel.
         (b)   Camping trailer. A folding structure manufactured of metal,
wood, canvas, plastic, or other materials, or any combination thereof, mounted
on wheels and designed for travel, recreation, or vacation use.
         (c)   Trailer.  A vehicle hauled by another vehicle and designed to
transport vehicles, boats, or freight.
      TRANSMISSION LINE, HIGH VOLTAGE ELECTRIC POWER. A line transmitting, or
designed to transmit, electricity of 66,000 or more volts, including poles,
guys, wires, towers, and appliances, but not including transformer stations or
substations.
      UNDER STORY. The small trees, shrubs, and other vegetation growing
beneath the canopy of forest trees.
      USE. Any continuing or repetitive occupation or activity taking place
upon a parcel of land or within a building including, but not limited to:
residential, manufacturing, retailing, offices, public services, recreational,
and educational.
      VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where
such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for
height, area, and size of a structure or size of yards and open space.
      WALL SIGN. A sign which is attached to a wall or facade of a building or
canopy.
      WARNING SIGN. Any sign with no commercial message that displays
information pertinent to the safety or legal responsibilities of the public
such as signs warning of ‘high voltage’, ‘no trespassing’, and similar
directives.
      WETLANDS. Those areas that are defined as wetlands by the United States
Army Corps of Engineers from time to time
      WOODLANDS.  Undeveloped land except for roads and utilities and contains
stands of native trees.
      YARD.  An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or shrubbery or as
otherwise provided herein.
      YARD, FRONT (HIGHWAY YARD). A yard across the full width of the lot
extending from the front line of the building.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main
building.
      YARD, SIDE. An open space on the same lot with a building, between the
building and the side line of the lot, extending through, from the front
building line, to the rear of the lot.
      ZERO LOT LINE. A concept commonly used in planned unit developments where
individual commercial buildings or dwellings, such as townhouses (row houses)
and patio homes, are to be sold, along with the ground underneath and perhaps a
small yard or patio area. Such commercial or residential units are located in
buildings with 2 or more units per building, usually including common walls.
With zero lot line, the minimum requirements for lot area and yards need not be
met and construction can take place up to the lot line.
      ZONING. A police power measure, enacted primarily by general-purpose
units of local government, in which the community is divided into zones or
zones within which permitted and special uses are established, as are
regulations governing lot size, building bulk, placement, and other development
standards. Requirements vary from zone to zone, but they must be uniform within
zones. The zoning ordinance consists of 2 parts - a text and a map.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official person charged with the administration
of this chapter. This definition may include other zoning enforcement officers;
both the positions of the Administrator and the Enforcement Officer are sworn
positions.
      ZONING DISTRICT. An area established by this chapter where the individual
properties are designed to serve compatible functions and to be developed at
compatible scales.
      ZONING PERMIT. An official certification that a premise, site plan,
building or land conforms to provisions of this chapter and may be used or
occupied. Such a certificate is granted for new construction or for alterations
or additions to existing structures or a change in use. Unless such a permit is
issued, a building permit cannot be issued by the County Planning and
Development Department
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2013; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2013;
Am. Ord. passed 12-1- 2014; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2017; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-
2019; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
APPLICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.020 APPLICATION.
   No land use shall hereafter be altered except in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is located, except as
hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.021 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator.  
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee is to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and shall keep records of all variances and
amendments to this chapter. As directed and provided for by the County
Commissioners and/or County Manager, Deputy Zoning Administrators may be
employed and/or appointed to assist the Zoning Administrator in the prescribed
duties.
      (2)    If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, and when appropriate with consultation of the
County Attorney, he shall notify in writing by first class mail the person
responsible for such alleged violations, indicating the nature of such alleged
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures or of
additions, alterations or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter or the Board of Commissioners to insure compliance with or to prevent
violations of its provisions.
   (B)   Zoning permit and building permit required.
      (1)   No land shall be used or occupied and no building hereafter
erected, structurally altered, moved, or its use changed until a zoning permit
has been issued (approved) by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter or except after
written order from the Board of Adjustment.
         (a)   A zoning permit is issued by the Zoning Administrator for
permitted uses.
         (b)   A special use permit is issued by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   NOTE: The County cannot issue a certificate of occupancy unless
zoning compliance is certified through an approved zoning permit.
      (3)   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Zoning Administrator and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
involved.
   (C)   Site plan requirements.
       (1)   NOTE: This section applies to site plans for individual lots.
Submittal of site plans for development of a minor or major subdivision is a
separate application process and subject to the Vance County Subdivision
Ordinance,
Chapter 155 of this Code. All applications for a zoning permit shall include 2
copies of a site plan, drawn to scale, which shall be of an appropriate size
for review of the proposed project. One copy of the site plan shall be returned
to the applicant upon approval, the submitted site plan shall contain the
following (see example on next page):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dff846a6ef043587dc72ade50ee042a76585a9c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
      (2)   Submitted site plan requirements:
         (a)   Lot lines with dimensions;
         (b)   The location of said lot with respect to adjacent rights-of-way;
         (c)   The shape, dimensions, and location of all buildings, existing
and proposed, driveways, and required setbacks;
         (d)   The current zoning category of the property for which the
application is submitted, the current zoning of the adjacent properties, and
the tax map number identification of the subject property.
         (e)   Distance from structures to lot lines and distance between
structures;
         (f)   The nature of the proposed use of the building or land,
including the extent and location of the use;
         (g)   Location of existing or proposed well;
         (h)   Location of existing or proposed septic tank, drainage field and
replacement drainage field (Note: structures may not be located over septic
tanks, drainage fields, or replacement drainage fields);
         (i)   The location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading
space and means of ingress and egress;
         (j)   The square feet/percentage of lot as built upon area;
         (k)   The location of all required buffers;
         (l)   Required driveway permits from the Department of Transportation;
         (m)   Any additional information that may be necessary to meet state
and local requirements for development; and
         (n)   Any other information, which the Zoning Administrator may deem
necessary for consideration in enforcing all provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Note:
         (a)   Prior to approval of the site plan, the Zoning Administrator may
consult with other qualified personnel for assistance to determine if the
application meets the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Review/approval of submitted site plans and zoning permit
applications by the Planning and Development Department shall be 2 weeks (as
feasible) upon submittal of the completed application and appropriate
documentation by the applicant.
         (c)   Zoning permits shall have the same period of being valid as
prescribed in G.S. §§ 160D- 403 and 160D-1110 as applicable to county building
permits: A permit issued pursuant to G.S § 160D-1111 expires 6 months, or any
lesser time fixed by ordinance of the county, after the date of issuance if the
work authorized by the permit has not commenced. If after commencement the work
is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the permit therefore immediately
expires. No work authorized by a permit that has expired may thereafter be
performed until a new permit has been secured.
   (D)   Temporary zoning permit. The Zoning Administrator may issue a
temporary zoning permit for rallies, carnivals, religious revivals, and similar
temporary uses. Such certificates shall be issued for a fixed period of time,
but not to exceed 15 days, shall be subject to such limitations as the Zoning
Administrator may impose to protect the character of the zone affected, and may
be considered for reapplication. A fee set by the Board of Commissioners shall
be charged for processing such an application. The adopted fee schedule shall
be posted in the Planning and Development Department and the office of the
Zoning Administrator and his/her designee.
   (E)   Right of appeal. If the zoning permit is denied, the applicant may
appeal the action of the Zoning Administrator to the Board of Adjustment; and
from the decision of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall be by the Vance
County Superior Court as provided by law. It is further the intention of this
chapter that the duties of the Board of Commissioners, in connection with the
chapter shall not include the hearing and passing upon disputed questions that
may arise in connection with the enforcement thereof, but that the procedure
for determining such questions shall be as herein set out in the chapter. The
duties of the Board of Commissioners, in connection with this chapter, shall be
only the duty of considering and passing upon any proposed amendment, or repeal
of the chapter as provided by law.
   (F)   Complaints regarding violations. Whenever the Administrator receives a
written, signed complaint from county residents, county property owners, or
their agents or an absentee landowner or their agent that includes at least 2
parties (making the complaint) having been identified and signing the written
complaint, he/she shall investigate the complaint, take whatever action is
warranted, and inform the complainant in writing by mail using a first class
mail letter, as to what action has been or will be taken. The Administrator may
investigate a violation that he suspects or has knowledge of existing.
   (G)   Persons liable. The owner and, if different, the tenant, or occupant
of any building or land or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor,
agent, or other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, or
maintains any situation that is contrary to the requirements of this chapter
may be held responsible for the violation, suffer penalties and be subject to
remedies herein provided.
   (H)   Procedures upon discovery of violations.
      (1)   If the Administrator finds that any provisions of this chapter are
being violated, he shall send a written notice by personal delivery, electronic
delivery or first class mail, to the person responsible for such violation,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct it. Additional written notices may be sent at the Administrator’s
discretion. The person providing the notice shall certify to the local
government that the notice was provided.
      (2)   In cases when delay would seriously threaten the effective
enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the public health, safety, or
welfare, the Administrator may seek enforcement without prior written notice by
invoking any of the penalties or remedies authorized by this section.
   (I)   Cancellation of permits. The Zoning Administrator, in consultation
with the County Attorney and through the Vance County Planning and Development
Department shall cancel a building or occupancy permit when the method of
construction or use violates any provisions contained in these regulations.
Similar cancellation shall be carried out if a violation has not been remedied
or if a written plan of action to remedy has not been submitted to the Zoning
Administrator within 45 days of the postmarked date of the violation letter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
ZONING MAP
§ 156.030 ADOPTION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, Vance County is hereby divided into
zones whose locations and boundaries are shown on the Official Zoning Map for
Vance County, which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. This zoning map and all the notations, references, and all
amendments thereto, and other information shown thereon are hereby made a part
of this chapter, the same as if such information set forth on the map were all
fully described and set out herein. The zoning map properly attested is on file
in the Vance County Planning and Development Department and is available for
inspection by the public.
   (B)   The Planning and Development Director or his/her designee shall be
responsible for the maintenance and revision of the official zoning map. Upon
notification by the Board of Commissioners that a zoning change has been made,
the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee shall make the
necessary changes on the official zoning map.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.031 INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zoning zones as
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where zone boundaries are
shown on the zoning map as approximately parallel or following the center lines
of streets, highways, utility easements, or stream beds, or such lines
extended, such lines shall be construed as such zone boundaries.
   (B)   Where zone boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow
lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (C)   Where a zoning boundary line divides a parcel (also referred to as a
lot - see §
156.015 for definition of LOT) in single ownership, the requirements for the
zone in which the greater portion of the lot lies shall be extended to the
balance of the lot, provided such extension shall not include any part of such
lot which lies more than 50 feet beyond the zoning boundary, and further
provided that the remaining parcel shall not be less than the minimum required
for the zone where it is located.
   (D)   Where any public street is hereafter officially vacated or abandoned,
the regulations applicable to parcels of abutting property shall apply to that
portion of such street/alley thereto by virtue of the vacation/abandonment.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall be empowered to interpret the intent of
the zoning map as to the location of zone boundaries in case any further
uncertainty exists.
   (F)   The zoning category for the individual property shall be noted on the
property owners county tax bill:
      (1)   Said identification and notation of zoning for individual
properties shall be conducted within 12 months after the date of adoption of
this chapter.
      (2)   Upon the adoption of this chapter and completion of notation for
zoning for all individual properties, future re-zonings that are approved
through the process outlined in this chapter, shall be noted in the Vance
County Tax Office within 90 days of the approved re-zoning.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the county residents or their
agents or an absentee landowner or their agent and all persons or parties with
interest in property within Vance County, to research potential re-zonings with
the Vance County Planning and Development Department and the Vance County Tax
Office.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.032 ZONES; DESCRIPTIONS AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   In order that the purpose of this chapter may be accomplished, the
planning and zoning limits of Vance County, as set forth on the accompanying
zoning map, is hereby divided into the following zones:
      (1)   Residential: A-R (Agricultural Residential), W-O-Z (Watershed
Overlay Zone), R-30 (Residential Low Density), R-20 (Residential Medium
Density), R-10 (Residential High Density), O-S (Open Space Preservation), R-M-
H-C (Residential Manufactured Housing Community).
      (2)   Non Residential: E-I-A (Employment and Institutional Area), H-C
(Highway Commercial), G-C-1 (General Commercial) L-I (Light Industrial), I-M
(Industrial Mining/Quarry), O-I (Office-Institutional).
      (3)   Roanoke River Basin: The State of North Carolina has adopted a
river basin management plan to protect water quality for the Roanoke River
Basin (and for all 17 river basins in North Carolina). Development in Vance
County occurring in the Roanoke River Basin shall comply with these
regulations; the Raleigh office of the North Carolina Division of Water Quality
(NCDWQ) enforces water quality protection. The current revision of the Roanoke
River Basinwide Water Quality plan was adopted in September 2006. The next
revision will be due in 2012.
   (B)   Riparian buffer rules and additional criteria related to zoning. The
State of North Carolina has adopted riparian buffer rules that affect the Tar-
Pamlico River Basin. These rules apply to 50-foot wide riparian buffers (on
each side - total of 100 feet) directly adjacent to surface waters in the Tar-
Pamlico Basin (intermittent streams, perennial streams, lakes, ponds,
estuaries), excluding wetlands. Development in Vance County occurring in the
Tar-Pamlico River Basin shall comply with these regulations, the Raleigh office
of the North Carolina Division of Water Quality (NCDWQ) enforces the riparian
buffer protection rules (information below per North Carolina Department of
Environmental and Natural Resources- NCDENR):
      (1)   On August 1, 2000 mandatory buffer rules (15A NCAC 2B.0233) became
effective for most streams and water bodies in the Tar-Pamlico River Basin. A
50-foot wide buffer is required on each side of those water bodies that qualify
for protection. This buffer must be implemented, coordinated with establishing
a Streamside Management Zone (SMZ) - per NC Forest Practices Guidelines (FPG)
Related to Water Quality.
      (2)   A "Forestry Leaflet" was published in April 2004 by the NC Division
of Forest Resources (NCDFR), briefly summarizing the requirements of these
buffer rules as related to timber harvesting and forestry operations in the
Tar-Pamlico River Basin. These riparian buffer rules place limitations on
timber harvesting and other forestry activities (due to these restrictions, it
is important to determine if a stream or waterbody located on a job site is in
Tar-Pamlico River Basin).
      (3)   The NCDFR can help loggers, landowners, and land managers determine
if a stream or waterbody requires the implementation of these riparian buffer
rules (contact the NCDFR District Office, NCDENR Regional Office, or visit the
NCDWQ Web site for assistance on activities related to riparian buffer rules).
      (4)   Per the Vance County Subdivision Ordinance, Chapter 155 of this
Code, the following applies to zoning:
         (a)   All sewage facilities shall be located 100 feet from any
existing well or proposed new well. This requirement may be reduced to 50 feet
with written approval from the Vance County Health Department.
         (b)   Lots located adjacent to Kerr Lake shall be allowed a zero lot
line setback from the US Army Corps of Engineers property line.
   (C)   Cul-de-sacs and flag lots. The following shall apply for cul-de-sacs
and flag lots (see §
156.015 for definitions). The minimum road frontage can be reduced to no less
than 35 feet and the minimum lot width requirement per individual zoning
category shall be measured from the minimum setback line per the individual
zoning category. The maximum building setback line shall be no more than 4
times the minimum setback requirement. In general (with coordination between
the applicant and Vance County Planning and Development staff) the minimum lot
width/street frontage identified in each zoning category below is encouraged.
When developing a subdivision (per the Vance County Subdivision Ordinance,
Chapter 155 of this Code), up to 25% of the lots in that subdivision may be
allowed a reduced minimum lot width/street frontage as identified in this
section.
   (D)   Minimum requirements for water and sewer service. For purposes of
providing water and sewer service to individual lots, for both public water and
sewer or private well and septic, the following shall apply:
      (1)   In the A-R, R-30, H-C, G-C-1, L-I, E-I-A, and O-I zones: Lot size
minimum requirements are the same for public water/sewer or private well/septic
and must meet all applicable regulations per the Vance County Health Department
if a private well/septic system is used.
      (2)   In the R-20 and R-10 zones: Lot size minimum requirement is with
access to public water/sewer only, this zone is not intended for use with
private well/septic systems.
      (3)   Wells and/or water supplies, septic tanks and/or temp/power poles
shall not be installed for camper use unless installed in accordance with other
regulations herein.
      (4)   If a combination of a well (other water supplies included), septic
tank or temp/power pole is located on the lot, without a primary dwelling:
         (a)   A camper may not be present on the lot for more than 14
consecutive calendar days; and
         (b)   If a camper is present for more than 3 consecutive calendar days
(or more than 4 consecutive calendar days for the Labor Day and/or Memorial Day
holidays), it shall not return to the lot within 30 calendar days from the day
of removal.
   (E)   A-R Agricultural Residential. Established for primarily rural,
agricultural, and sparsely spaced residential development. Standards are
designed to preserve the rural character of Vance County by prohibiting uses
incompatible with rural and low-density residential development. Certain non-
residential uses are allowed, either as a matter of right or on a conditional
basis. Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 1 acre (43,560 square feet);
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum dwelling units (density per acre): 1.00;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 24%;
      (7)   Minimum setbacks: front - 50 feet, side - 25 feet, rear - 35 feet.
   (F)   W-O-Z Watershed Overlay Zone.  Established primarily for the
protection of the county's residential growth areas from incompatible land uses
and to protect Vance County's watersheds (Anderson Creek and Tar-Pamlico) as
determined by the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources (NCDENR). Certain non-residential uses are allowed, either as a
matter of right or on a conditional basis with approval by the Vance County
Watershed Review Board (See Watershed Protection Ordinance,
Chapter 154 of this Code). The lot size minimum requirements outlined below are
to provide protection for the land and natural resources, and to protect water
quality. These overlay zones are superimposed over other zoning categories in
these areas and may modify provisions for those underlying zones in relation to
allowed uses and standards for development. All development of property located
in the Watershed Overlay Zones shall be in accordance with NCDENR (state
requirements shall prevail where they are more stringent than existing
requirements for development). All development in the Watershed Overlay Zones
shall also be subject to review and approval by the Watershed Review Board and
when necessary by the Zoning Board of Adjustment and/or the Planning Board. The
following applies in the Anderson Creek and Tar Pamlico watersheds (and shall
comply with the Vance County Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance,
Chapter 154 of this Code):
      (1)   Lots shall not be reduced below 43,560 square feet in watershed
areas with a WS-III-CA (critical area) designation.
      (2)   Lots shall not be reduced below 35,000 square feet in watershed
protection areas with a WS-III-BW (balance of watershed) or WS-IV-PA (protected
area) designation, under any circumstances.
      (3)   In regards to impervious surface coverage (built-upon area) the
following shall apply:
         1.   WS-III-CA (critical area): In order to maintain a low to moderate
land use intensity pattern, single family residential uses are allowed at a
maximum of 1 dwelling unit per acre (43,560 square feet). All residential,
other than single family residential and non-residential development shall be
allowed to a maximum of 12% built-upon area.
         2.   WS-III-BW (balance of watershed): In order to maintain a low to
moderate land use intensity pattern, single family detached uses shall be
developed with a minimum lot size of 35,000 square feet, where a larger size
may be required by the Vance County Health Department, in accordance with "Laws
and Rules for Sewage Treatment and Disposal Systems", North Carolina Department
of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental
Health, On-Site Wastewater Section". All residential, other than single family
residential and non-residential development shall be allowed a maximum of 24%
built-upon area.
         3.   WS-IV-BW (balance of watershed): In order to address a moderate
to high land use intensity pattern, single family residential uses shall
develop with a minimum lot size of 35,000 square feet, where a larger size may
be required by the Vance County Health Department, in accordance with "Laws and
Rules for Sewage Treatment and Disposal Systems", North Carolina Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health,
On-Site Wastewater Section" or within an approved cluster development. All
residential, other than single family residential, and non-residential
development shall be allowed at a maximum of 24% built-upon area or 36% built-
upon area is allowed for projects without a curb and gutter street system.
      (4)   No request for a reduction of lot size will be considered unless
submitted with appropriate evidence.
      (5)   Minimum setbacks (and lot width minimum) are identified below:
         1.   Anderson Creek - critical area WS-III-CA (lot width minimum 150
feet):
             a.   Front: 50 feet;
            b.   Side: 25 feet;
            c.   Rear: 35 feet.
         2.   Anderson Creek - balance of watershed WS-III-BW (lot width
minimum 100 feet):
            a.   Front: 40 feet;
            b.   Side: 25 feet;
            c.   Rear: 30 feet.
         3.   Tar Pamlico - balance of watershed WS-IV-BW (lot width minimum
100 feet):
            a.   Front: 30 feet;
            b.   Side: 20 feet;
            c.   Rear: 25 feet.
         4.   For cul-de-sacs and flag lots see division (C) above.
   (G)   R-30 Residential Low Density. Established primarily for the protection
of the county's residential growth areas from incompatible land uses. This zone
is characterized by lot sizes compatible with State of North Carolina minimum
requirements for adequate space to incorporate a private septic system and
repair area. This zone is further characterized as being within the public
water (and/or sewer) service area or proposed service area. The primary use in
this area is residential, with some areas of the county suitable for
agricultural uses. Certain non-residential uses are allowed, either as a matter
of right or on a conditional basis. Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 30,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 100 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum dwelling units (density per acre): 1.45;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage-net area (built upon area): 20%;
      (7)   Minimum setbacks: front - 30 feet; side - 20 feet; rear - 25 feet.
   (H)   R-20 Residential Medium Density. Established primarily for the
protection of the county's residential growth areas from incompatible land
uses. This zone characterized as being within the public water (and/or sewer)
service area or proposed service area. The primary use in this area is
residential. Certain non-residential uses are allowed, either as a matter of
right or on a conditional basis. Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 80 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 80 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum dwelling units (density per acre): 2.17;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage-net area (built-upon area): 25%;
      (7)   Minimum setbacks: front - 25 feet; side - 15 feet; rear - 20 feet.
   (I)   R-10 Residential High Density. Established primarily for the
protection of the county's residential growth areas from incompatible land
uses. This zone characterized as being within the public water (and/or sewer)
service area or proposed service area. The primary use in this area is
residential. Certain non-residential uses are allowed, either by right or a
conditional basis. Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 75 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum dwelling units (density per acre): 4.5;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 30%;
      (7)   Minimum setbacks: front - 20 feet; side - 10 feet; rear - 15 feet.
   (J)   O-S Open Space (Open Space Preservation). Established for areas focus
on preservation of natural resources with limited residential development
allowed. This development is to promote the economic use and conservation of
land for natural resources use, managed residential development, non-intensive
recreational use, and limited (low intensity) commercial development that will
serve the recreational use of the natural resources. Although not exclusive,
this zone is characterized as not having access to public utilities such as
water or sewer. Certain non-residential uses are allowed, either as a matter of
right or on a conditional basis. Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 1 acre (43,560 square feet);
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum dwelling units (density per acre): 1.0;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 20%;
      (7)   Minimum setbacks: front - 50 feet; side - 25 feet; rear - 35 feet.
   (K)   R-M-H-C (Planned Manufactured Housing Community). This zone will
include residences and related recreational, commercial, and service
facilities, subject to the Vance County Manufactured Housing Park Ordinance,
Chapter 152 of this Code, and detailed site plan approval (refer to
Chapter 152 for dimensional requirements, lot sizes, and infrastructure
requirements: water, sewer, roads). Where applicable to develop a manufactured
home community (also called a mobile home park) in other zoning categories as
identified in this chapter, the more restrictive regulations of that particular
zoning category shall apply in addition to the development standards as
outlined in
Chapter 152.
   (L)   E-I-A Employment and Institutional Area. Established to provide
suitable sites for a concentration of non-retail employment and institutional
uses and services such as medical, manufacturing, office, religious,
educational, recreational, and governmental. Dimensional requirements are as
follows:
      (1)   Minimum Lot area: 2 contiguous acres, 1 acre with public water and
sewer;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet (125 feet with public water and sewer)
(see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 150 feet (125 feet with public water and
sewer) (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Minimum setbacks**: front - 75 (50) feet; side - 25 (20) feet; rear
- 75 (50) feet;
      (5)   Maximum building height: n/a (not applicable);
** Any building height above 50 feet shall require the front, side, and rear
setbacks to be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet increase in building height.
      (6)   Landscaping/buffering required: See §
156.055 on buffering and screening requirements;
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 60%.
   (M)   H-C Highway Commercial. Established primarily for business catering to
the auto traveling public requiring large lots, easy access, ample parking and
loading space, and little pedestrian movement. Retail trade and services for
the convenience of nearby residential areas is also a function of this zone.
Generally this zone is located along established or proposed highway corridors
- mainly at intersections and interchanges. Dimensional requirements are as
follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 43,560 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 125 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 125 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Minimum setbacks**: front - 50 feet; side - 10 feet; rear - 25
feet;
      (5)   Maximum building height: n/a (not applicable);
      (6)   Landscaping/buffering required: See §
156.055 on buffering and screening requirements;
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 60%.
   (N)   G-C-1 General Commercial. Established to provide an area of retail and
service commercial activities, size will vary according to the trade area. This
area will include retail commercial uses that are related to the supply needs
and frequent demand/daily requirements of a particular area. Dimensional
requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 43,560 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 125 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage in feet: 125 feet (see division(C) above -
cul-de-sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Minimum setbacks**: front - 75 feet; side - 25 feet; rear - 50
feet;
** Any building height above 50 feet shall require the front, side, and rear
setbacks to be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet increase in building height.
      (5)   Maximum building height: n/a (not applicable);
      (6)   Landscaping/buffering required: see §
156.055 on buffering and screening requirements;
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 60%.
   (O)   L-I Light Industrial. Established where the principal land use is for
wholesale activities, industrial, research, warehousing, light manufacturing
operations, and some institutional uses. The standards established are designed
to promote sound, permanent, light industrial development and to protect
abutting or surrounding residential areas from any undesirable aspect of such
uses. The zone is to be located in an area that has good access to
transportation facilities, affords reasonably level sites, and permits
expansion of existing industrial areas wherever possible and appropriate to the
character of land development. When possible, the zone shall be separated from
residential areas by natural/structural boundaries such as drainage channels,
sharp breaks into topography, strips of vegetation, traffic arteries and/or
similar features. Residential, retail commercial, and service land uses are
either prohibited or discouraged in the zone as they may be incompatible with
the primary permitted uses. Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 80,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Minimum setbacks**: front - 75 feet; side - 25 feet; rear - 75
feet;
      (5)   Maximum building height: n/a (not applicable);
      (6)   Landscaping/buffering required: See §
156.055 on buffering and screening requirements;
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 75%.
** Any building height above 50 feet shall require the front, side, and rear
setbacks to be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet increase in building height.
   (P)   I-M Industrial-Mining/Quarry. Established where the principal land use
is for industrial mining and quarry activities. The standards established are
designed to promote safe and managed operations of mining and quarry industry
and to protect abutting-surrounding residential areas from any undesirable
aspect of such uses. The zone is to be located in an area that has good access
to transportation facilities, affords reasonably level sites, and permits
expansion of existing industrial areas wherever possible and appropriate to the
character of land development. When possible, the zone shall be separated from
residential areas by natural/structural boundaries such as drainage channels,
sharp breaks into topography, strips of vegetation, traffic arteries and/or
similar features. Residential, retail commercial, and service land uses are
prohibited in the zone as they may be incompatible with the permitted uses. The
following elements shall be required for mining operations in Vance County:
      (1)   Blasting time: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, and
conforming to State Vibration Policy;
      (2)   Monitoring wells: Case by case basis where needed; required on rock
quarries;
      (3)   Fencing: 6-foot fence required for all mining, including sand and
clay mining when the excavation depth poses a hazard;
      (4)   Setback for excavation: minimum 50 feet for all mining, except rock
quarries where 200 feet is required from property lines and zoning lines;
      (5)   Buffer zone (undisturbed area): minimum of 25 feet on sand and clay
mining, minimum of 50 feet for all other mining. This use shall also comply
with §
156.055 screening and buffering requirements;
      (6)   Roads: shall be paved or treated otherwise to conform to standards
set forth in the Clean Air Act;
      (7)   Minimum setbacks**: front - 75 feet; side - 25 feet; rear - 75
feet.
** Any building height above 50 feet shall require the front, side, and rear
setbacks to be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet increase in building height.
   (Q)   O-I Office-Institutional. Established to provide an area of
predominantly non-retail commercial nature such as professional businesses,
medical offices, or related administrative services (area may include uses
related to the supply needs and demand/daily requirements of an area with a
minimum of customer travel). Dimensional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area in square feet: 40,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet (see division (C) above - cul-de-sacs/
flag lots);
      (3)   Minimum street frontage: 150 feet (see division (C) above-cul-de-
sacs/flag lots);
      (4)   Minimum setbacks**: front - 50 feet; side - 25 feet; rear - 25
feet;
      (5)    Maximum building height: n/a (not applicable);
      (6)   Landscaping/buffering required: See §
156.055 on buffering and screening requirements;
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage - net area (built-upon area): 65%.
   (R)   Middleburg Overlay Zone. Established to include the Town of Middleburg
within the county's zoning jurisdiction as requested by the Middleburg Town
Council and approved by the Vance County Board of Commissioners. All current
regulations and requirements within the existing Vance County Zoning Ordinance
shall apply except as follow:
      (1)   New manufactured homes shall not be allowed within the Middleburg
Overlay Zone. Existing manufactured homes may be continued, provided they
conform to the provision of section 5.
      (2)   Nonconforming lots, structures or uses within the Town of
Middleburg as of the date of this amendment may be continued, provided they
conform to the provisions of section 5.
      (3)   Existing junk yards, outdoor storage and signs that do not meet
current zoning regulations, will be given an amortization period of 180 days
from the date of the adoption of this chapter amendment to become compliant.
** Any building height above 50 feet shall require the front, side, and rear
setbacks to be increased 1 foot for every 2 feet increase in building height.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2013; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2017;
Am. Ord. passed 1-6-2020)
§ 156.033 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   With the various zones as indicated on the Official Zoning Map of
Vance County, North Carolina, no land, building, or structure shall be used,
and no building or structure shall be erected or altered, except in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter. Any use not specifically permitted is
prohibited. Where more than 1 use occupies a building or premises, the zoning
requirements for each use shall be adhered to as set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   P indicates uses permitted by right.
      (2)   X indicates a prohibited use.
      (3)    SUP indicates uses permitted as a special use upon approval by the
Board of Adjustment. Standard conditions are set forth in §§
156.080 through
156.089. Additional conditions may be placed on specific uses by the Board of
Adjustment to insure the intent of this chapter is met. Should any
interpretation conflict arise between special use allowed under this Table an
appeal may be filed with the Board of Adjustment and Appeals as provide and in
accordance with §§
156.150 through
156.158.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to identify uses permitted within Vance
County not inclusive of the incorporated limits City of Henderson or its
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ). The chart below applies to new uses/
construction after the effective date of this chapter so as to avoid undue
hardship by permitting the continued use of any building, structure, or
property that was lawful at the time of the enactment of this chapter or any
applicable amendment thereof, even though such use, structure or property does
not conform with the provisions of this chapter. There may exist circumstances
which require continuance of a non-conforming use in the event of a natural or
man-made disaster, which is addressed in §§
156.070 through
156.075. This Table of Permitted Uses is not intended to limit or prevent
certain operations that are a normal secondary extension (part) of existing
development and uses.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2013; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-2013;
Am. Ord. passed 7-6- 2015; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2017; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2017;
Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
{'{'}To view the Table of Permitted Uses in PDF, click HERE{'}'}
TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
USE  Reference                                                          PARKING
TYPE Sections  AR R3 0 R2 0 R1 0 RM HC H C GC 1 LI IM EI A O I O S WO Z -
                                                                        LOADING
TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
USE TYPE       Reference AR   R3 R2 R1 RM  H  GC LI IM EI O  O S WO PARKING -
               Sections       0  0  0  HC  C  1        A  I      Z  LOADING
AGRICULTURAL
Bona fide
farms
(includes
raising        §        P    P  SU X  X   X  X  SU SU SU X  P   P  N/A
poultry, or    156.005           P               P  P  P
livestock for
commercial
use)
                                                                    Parking: 1/
                                                                    300 SF + 1
Commercial                       SU                    SU           per 3
stables                 P    P  P  X  X   X  X  X  X  P  X  P   P  stalls
                                                                    Loading: 1
                                                                    per 40
                                                                    stalls
Farming                                                             Parking: 1/
(greenhouses -                      SU              SU SU           250 SF
nurseries, not          P    P  P  P  CU  P  P  P  P  P  X  P   P  Loading: 1
bona fide                                                           per 5 bays
farms)
RESIDENTIAL USES
               §
               156.015
Single family, §                                                   Parking: 3
detached/      156.032                                              per
subdivisions)  §        P    P  P  P  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  dwelling
stick built,   156.057                                              unit
modular -      §                                                   Loading: N/
definitions    156.058                                              A
               §
               156.107
               §                                                   Parking: 2
Multi-family   156.015                                              per
dwellings      §        C U  P  P  P  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  dwelling
(duplex,       156.080                                              unit
triplexes)     §                                                   Loading: N/
               156.107                                              A
               §
Multi-family   156.015                                              Parking: 2
dwellings      §                                                   per
(townhouses,   156.058   X    C  P  P  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  C U CU dwelling
apartments,    §             U                                     unit
condominiums)  156.089                                              Loading: N/
               §                                                   A
               156.107
Manufactured   §                                                   Parking: 2
home (single   156.015                                              per
wide/double    §                   P                               dwelling
wide -         156.032   P    P  P    P   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  unit
definitions    §                                                  Loading: N/
per            156.057                                              A
Chapter 155
Manufactured                                                        Parking: 2
home park      §                                                   per
(single wide/  156.015   SU P SU P  P  P   X  X  X  X  X  X  X   X  dwelling
double wide)   §             P                                     unit
per            156.062                                              Loading: N/
Chapter 155                                                         A
                                                                    Parking: 2
Planned unit                                                        per
development    §        SUP  SU SU SU SUP X  X  X  X  X  X  SU  SU dwelling
(PUD)          156.015        P  P  P                        P   P  unit
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
HOME USES
Home                                                                Parking: 2
occupations/   §             SU SU SU                       SU  SU per
business       156.015   P    P  P  P  SUP X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  employee
(definitions)                                                       Loading: N/
                                                                    A
                                                                    Parking: 3
                                                                    per
Home care unit §        P    P  X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  dwelling
(definitions)  156.015                                              unit
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
                                                                    Parking: 3
Family care                                                         per
home (group    §        P    P  P  P  P   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  dwelling
home -         156.015                                              unit
definitions)                                                        Loading: N/
                                                                    A
                                                                    Parking: 1
Day care home                                                       per 7
(children,     §                                                   child-adult
adult -        156.015   P    P  P  P  P   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  + 1 per
definitions)                                                        employee
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
INSTITUTIONAL USES
                                                                    Parking: 1
Day care                 SUP                                        per 7
facility       §        1-                SU SU SU          SU     child-adult
(children,     156.015   acre P  P  P  P   P  P  P  X  P  P  P   P  + 1 per
adults                   min.                                       employee
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
Home for the                                                        Parking: 33
aged or rest   §                          SU SU             SU     spaces per
home           156.015   SUP  P  P  P  P   P  P  X  X  P  P  P   P  room
(definitions)                                                       Loading: N/
                                                                    A
Assembly and                                                        Parking: 1/
worship        §                                                   3 seats
(churches,     156.102   P    P  P  P  P   P  P  X  X  P  P  P   P  Loading: 1
synagogues,                                                         per 40,000
mosques, etc.)                                                      SF
Retirement                                                          Parking: 33
Community      §                          SU SU             SU     spaces per
(planned       156.015   SU P P  P  P  P   P  P  X  X  P  P  P   P  room
community                                                           Loading: N/
                                                                    A
Schools                                                             Parking: 2
(kindergarten,                                                      per
nursery,       §        P    P  P  P  P   SU SU X  X  P  P  P   P  classroom
elementary,    156.089                     P  P                     Loading: 1/
middle-high                                                         40,000 SF
schools)
                                                                    Parking: 1
College        §                                            SU  SU per 2
(community and 156.089   SU P X  X  X  X   P  P  X  X  P  P  P   P  students
university)                                                         Loading: 1/
                                                                    40,000 SF
               §                                                   Parking: 1
Hospitals      156.089   SU P SU X  X  X   P  P  X  X  P  P  X   SU per bed
               §             P                                  P  Loading: 1/
               156.111                                              33,000 SF
Fire stations,                                                      Parking: 1
police                                                              per
stations, EMS                                                       employee +
stations                P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  1 stored
(public safety                                                      vehicle
facilities)                                                         Loading: 1/
                                                                    loading bay
               §                                                   Parking:
Medical and    156.089        SU SU SU                           SU 4.5/1,000
dental clinics §        SU P P  P  P  SUP P  P  X  X  P  P  P   P  SF
               156.111                                              Loading: 1/
                                                                    30,000 SF
Public
utilities                                                           Parking: 1/
(substations,           P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  1,000 SF
water-sewer                                                         Loading: 1/
pump stations,                                                      2,000 SF
water tanks)
COMMERCIAL USES
Agricultural   §                                                   Parking: 1/
support and    156.015   P    SU X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  SU  SU 25 SF
services (see  §             P                              P   P  Loading:
definitions)   156.089                                              1.5/bay
                                                                    Parking: 1
               §                                                   per room +
Bed and        156.015           SU SU                              2 extra
breakfast/     §        P    P  P  P  X   P  P  X  X  X  X  P   P  spaces for
country inn    156.089                                              facility
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
               §                                                   Parking: 4/
General store  156.015   SU P SU X  X  X   P  P  X  X  X  X  SU  SU 1,000 SF
               §             P                              P   P  Loading: N/
               156.089                                              A
Animal         §                                                   Parking: 3/
hospitals -    156.089   P    P  SU X  X   P  P  P  X  SU SU P   P  1,000 SF
veterinary     §                P                     P  P         Loading: 1/
clinics        156.111                                              30,000 SF
                                                                    Parking: 1
                                                                    per 300 SF
Kennels        §        P    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  P   P  + 1 per 3
               156.015                                              stalls
                                                                    Loading: 1
                                                                    40 stalls
                                                                    Parking: 1/
               §                                                   room + 2
Commercial     156.015                                              extra
lodging        §        SU P SU X  X  X   P  P  X  X  SU SU SU  SU spaces for
(motels,       156.089        P                        P  P  P   P  facility
hotels)        §                                                   Loading: 2
               156.111                                              per 40,000
                                                                    SF
               §                                                   Parking: 4/
Retail         156.089   X    X  X  X  X   P  P  SU X  X  X  SU  SU 1,000 SF
               §                                P           P   P  Loading: 1/
               156.111                                              30,000 SF
               §                                                   Parking: 1/
               156.015                                              200 SF
Shopping       §        X    X  X  X  X   P  P  X  X  X  X  X   SU Loading: 1
center         156.102                                           P  per 25,000
               §                                                   SF
               156.108
                                                                    Parking: 1
               §                                                   per 1,000
               156.015                                 SU SU     SU SF + 1 per
Gas stations   §        X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  P  P  X   P  pump
               156.089                                              station
                                                                    Loading: 1/
                                                                    20,000 SF
                                                                    Parking: 4/
Alcohol sales  §        X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  SU  X  1,000 SF
(ABC store)    156.089                                       P      Loading: N/
                                                                    A
               §                                                   Parking: 4/
Office         156.015   X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  P  P  P  X   SU 1,000 SF
               §                                                P  Loading: 1/
               156.111                                              33,000 SF
                                                                    Parking: 4
Lumber yard    §                                                   per 1,000
and building   156.089   SU P X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  SU  SU SF
supplies sales §                                            P   P  Loading: 2
               156.111                                              per 30,000
                                                                    SF
               §                                                   Parking: 1/
Vehicle/Boat   156.089                                       SU  SU 15 vehicles
sales          §        SU P X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  P   P  on lot
               156.111                                              Loading: 2/
                                                                    30,000 SF
               §                                                   Parking: 1/
Vehicle/boat   156.015                                       SU  SU 15 vehicles
repair/service §        SU P X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  P   P  on lot
garage         156.089                                              Loading: 2/
                                                                    30,000 SF
               §                                                   Parking: 1/
               156.089                                              15 vehicles
Auto-boat-RV   §        SU P X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  X   SU on lot
storage        156.106                                           P  Loading: 2/
               §                                                   30,000 SF
               156.111
                                                                    Parking: 12
               §                                                   per 1,000
Restaurants    156.089   X    X  X  X  X   P  P  SU X  SU SU SU  SU SF gross
               §                                P     P  P  P   P  floor area
               156.111                                              Loading: N/
                                                                    A</v
               §                                                   Parking: 1
               156.015                                              per 2,000
Junkyard (also §                                                   SF storage
called a       156.089   SU P X  X  X  X   P  P  X  X  X  X  X   X  + 1 per
salvage yard)  §                                                   vehicle
               156.106                                              Loading: N/
                                                                    A
                                                                    Parking: 1/
Electronic     §                                                   100 SF OR 1
gaming         156.015   X    X  X  X  X   SU SU SU X  X  X  X   SU per 2
operations     §                          P  P  P               P  terminals
               156.089                                              (whichever
                                                                    greater)
RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT USES
                                                                    Parking: 1
Campgrounds,   §                                                   travel
recreational   156.015        SU                                 SU trailer + 1
vehicle parks  §        SU P P  X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  per 350 SF
(see           156.089                                              office
definitions)                                                        space
                                                                    Loading: 1
Commercial                                                          Parking: 6
amusement               X    X  X  X  X   P  P  SU X  X  X  X   SU per 1,000
(indoor)                                         P               P  SF
                                                                    Loading: 1
                                                                    Parking: 1
Commercial                                                          per 3 seats
amusement               X    X  X  X  X   SU SU X  X  X  X  X   SU or 1.25 per
(outdoor)                                  P  P                  P  play area
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
                                                                    Parking: 1
                                                 SU    SU SU     SU per 3 seats
Theaters                X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  P  P  X   P  Loading: 1
                                                                    per 40,000
                                                                    SF
Public
recreation                                                          Parking: 1
(centers,      §             SU SU SU                           SU per 4,000
parks, fields, 156.089   SU P P  P  P  SUP P  P  X  X  P  P  P   P  SF of area
playgrounds,                                                        Loading: N/
pools,                                                              A
facilities)
INDUSTRIAL USES
Disposal                                                            Parking: 1
(waste and     §        X    X  X  X  X   X  X  SU SU X  X  X   X  per vehicle
sewerage)      156.107                           P  P               Loading: 1
                                                                    per vehicle
               §
               156.015                                              Parking: 1
Extraction     §        X    X  X  X  X   X  X  SU P  X  X  X   X  per vehicle
(mining)       156.089                           P                  Loading: 1
               §                                                   per vehicle
               156.107
               §
               156.015                                              Parking: 1
Convenience    §        SU P SU X  X  X   X  SU P  P  X  X  X   P  per
Center         156.089        P               P                     employee
               §
               156.107
Land clearing
inert debris                                     SU SU           SU
landfill,               SU P X  X  X  X   X  X  P  P  X  X  X   P  N/A
major (greater
than 2 acres)
Land clearing
inert debris                                     SU SU           SU
landfill,               SU P X  X  X  X   X  X  P  P  X  X  X   P  N/A
minor (less
than 2 acres)
                                                                    Parking: 2
Recycling and/                                SU                    per 1,000
or storage              SU P X  X  X  X   X  P  P  P  X  X  X   X  SF
                                                                    Loading:
                                                                    1.25/bay
                                                                    Parking: 1/
                                           SU SU       SU           500 SF + 1
Manufacturing           X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  P  P  X  X   X  vehicle
                                                                    Loading: 1/
                                                                    20,000 SF
Machine and
welding shops                                                       Parking: 1
(see           §                                                   per 500 SF
definitions -  156.089        SU           SU SU                    + 1 per
home           §        SU P P  X  X  X   P  P  P  P  X  X  X   X  vehicle
occupation -   156.107                                              Loading: 1/
industrial or                                                       20,000 SF
commercial
nature)
Petroleum/                                                          Parking: 1
HazMat, bulk                                                        per 2,000
storage (all            X    X  X  X  X   SU SU P  P  X  X  X   X  SF
fire/safety                                P  P                     Loading:
regulations                                                         1.5/bay
are met)
Warehousing                                                         Parking: 1
(includes                                              SU        SU per 2,000
mini-storage),          X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  P  P  X  X   P  SF
distribution                                                        Loading:
and logistics                                                       1.5/bay
SPECIAL USES
                                                                    Parking: 4
Adult                                      SU SU SU                 per 1,000
establishments          X    X  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  X   X  SF
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
                                                                    Parking:
Airports                SU P X  X  X  X   X  SU SU SU SU SU X   X  Special
                                              P  P  P  P  P         study
                                                                    required***
Cemetery                                                         SU
(church,                P    P  P  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  P  P   P  N/A
family)
*** See §
156.089(L)
                                                                    Parking: 6
                                                                    per 1,000
Cemetery                P    SU X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  SU  SU SF of
(commercial)                  P                              P   P  office -
                                                                    building
                                                                    Loading: 1
Commercial                                                          Parking: 2
communications          SU P X  X  X  X   SU SU SU SU SU SU SU  SU per tower
towers (cell                               P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  Loading: 1
towers)
                                                                    Parking:
Shooting                                                     SU  SU 1.5 per
ranges                  SU P X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  P   P  shooting
                                                                    station
                                                                    Loading: 1
Solar
collector               P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  N/A
(accessory)
Solar energy
systems, large          SU P X  X  X  X   X  X  SU SU SU SU X   X  N/A
scale (solar                                     P  P  P  P
farms)
TEMPORARY USES
Commercial                                                          Parking:
(temporary -                                                        staff
see                     P    P  X  X  X   P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  review
definitions)                                                        Loading: N/
outdoor sales                                                       A
                                                                    Parking:
Concrete/                                        SU                 staff
asphalt                 X    X  X  X  X   X  X  P  P  X  X  X   X  review
operations                                                          Loading: 1
                                                                    per vehicle
Contractor's
office                                                              Parking: 1
(located at             SU P SU X  X  X   SU SU SU P  SU SU X   SU per 200 SF
project site                  P            P  P  P     P  P      P  Loading: N/
for duration                                                        A
of project)
                                                                    Parking: 8
Farmstand               P    P  X  X  X   P  P  P  X  X  X  P   P  spaces
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
Manufactured                                                        Parking: 1
housing unit                  SU SU SU                    SU SU  SU per vehicle
for office              SU P P  P  P  P   P  P  P  X  X  P  P   P  Loading: N/
and/or                                                              A
exhibition
                                                                    Parking: 2
Manufactured                                                        per
home for                SU P SU SU SU P   X  X  X  X  X  X  X   SU dwelling
hardship                      P  P  P                            P  unit
                                                                    Loading: N/
                                                                    A
Public                                                              Parking: 1/
interest event          SU P SU SU SU SUP SU SU SU SU SU SU SU  SU patron
and/or special                P  P  P      P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  Loading 1
event                                                               per vehicle
Temporary                                                           Parking: 1
miscellaneous           SU P SU SU SU SUP SU SU SU SU SU SU SU  SU per vehicle
sales (see                    P  P  P      P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  Loading: N/
definitions)                                                        A
 
§ 156.034 CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In addition to the general use zoning districts established in §
156.033, a corresponding conditional zoning district, bearing the designation
'CZ', may be established in accordance with the provisions of §
156.175. Accordingly, the following conditional zoning districts may be
designated upon approval by the Board of County Commissioners of a petition by
the property owners to establish a conditional zoning district:
      (1)   CZ-AR, Agricultural Residential Conditional Zoning District.
      (2)   CZ-WOZ, Watershed Overlay Zone Conditional Zoning District.
      (3)   CZ-R30, Residential Low Density Conditional Zoning District.
      (4)   CZ-R20, Residential Medium Density Conditional Zoning District.
      (5)   CZ-R10, Residential High Density Conditional Zoning District.
      (6)   CZ-OS, Open Space Conditional Zoning District.
      (7)   CZ-RMHC, Planned Manufactured Housing Community Conditional Zoning
District.
      (8)   CZ-EIA, Employment and Institutional Area Conditional Zoning
District.
      (9)   CZ-HC, Highway Commercial Conditional Zoning District.
      (10)   CZ-GC1, General Commercial Conditional Zoning District.
      (11)   CZ-LI, Light Industrial Conditional Zoning District.
      (12)   CZ-IM, Industrial Mining/Quarry Conditional Zoning District.
      (13)   CZ-OI, Office Institutional Conditional Zoning District.
   (B)   The development and use of property within a conditional zoning
district is subject to predetermined ordinance standards and the rules,
regulations, and conditions imposed as part of the legislative decision
creating the district. All regulations which apply to a general use zoning
district also apply to the corresponding conditional zoning district. All other
rules, regulations, and conditions which may be offered by the property owner
and approved by the Board of County Commissioners as part of the rezoning
process shall also apply. Property may be placed in a conditional zoning
district only in response to a petition by the owners of all of the property
proposed to be included in the conditional zoning district. Requirements for
conditional zoning districts are delineated in §
156.175.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2023)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.040 STREET ACCESS.
   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut a street or have
access to a street. Except in a business zone or in a planned project in a
residential zone, a building may be erected adjoining a parking area or other
dedicated open space with access to a street used in common with other lots.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.041 REQUIRED YARDS NOT TO BE USED BY ANOTHER BUILDING.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this chapter for each and
every building shall not be encroached upon or considered as meeting the yard
and open space requirements of any other building.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.042 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally (structural, not
cosmetic) altered shall be located on a lot. In no case shall there be more
than 1 principal building and its customary accessory buildings on a lot,
except in the case of a specifically designed complex of institutional,
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings in an appropriate zone, in
this circumstance the accessory structure(s) may be allowed and shall comply
with §
156.051.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.043 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein, except
for street widening. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this
chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.044 SUBSTANDARD LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   When a substandard lot can be used in conformity with all of the
regulations applicable to its intended use, except that the lot is smaller than
the required minimum size for its zoning category, then the lot may be used as
proposed as if it were conforming. However, no use requiring a greater lot size
than the established minimum lot size for a particular zone is permissible on a
substandard lot.
   (B)   When the use proposed for a substandard lot is one that conforms in
all other respects, but the applicable setback requirements cannot reasonably
be complied with, then the authorizing agent or board by this chapter may issue
a permit for the proposed use (Zoning Administrator, Board of Adjustment). The
permit may allow deviations from the applicable setback requirements if it is
found that:
      (1)   The property cannot reasonably be developed for the use proposed
without such deviations;
      (2)   These deviations are necessitated by the size or shape of the
nonconforming lot; and
      (3)   The property can be developed as proposed without any obvious
adverse impact on surrounding properties or the public health or safety, based
the determination of county planning staff and the property owner.
   (C)   For this section, compliance with applicable building setback
requirements is not reasonably possible if a building that serves the minimal
needs of the use proposed for the substandard lot cannot practicably be
constructed and located on the lot in conformity with the particular zoning
category setback requirements. Financial hardship does not constitute grounds
for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
   (D)   This section is applicable only to substandard lots of record (lots
recorded in the Vance County Tax Office and Register of Deeds, prior to the
effective date of this chapter, with no development. A lot is undeveloped if it
has no substantial structures upon it.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.045 ADJOINING AND VACANT LOTS OF RECORD.
   If 2 or more adjoining and vacant lots of record are in a single ownership
at any time after the adoption of this chapter and such lots individually have
less frontage or area than the minimum requirements of the zone in which such a
single lot or several lots are located, the lands involved shall be considered
to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter, and no portion of
said parcel shall be used which does not meet lot width and area requirements
established by this chapter, nor shall any division of the parcel be made which
leaves remaining any lot with width or area below the requirements stated in
this chapter. For circumstances where such a lot that meets the provision and
would be established as a non-buildable lot, such lot could be applicable for
use for signage, septic system repair area, or open space upon review/approval
by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.046 ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, all effluents and emissions
into the air or surface or groundwater from new development permitted by this
chapter including any land disturbing activity must be in conformity with all
applicable federal, state, and county health and environmental quality
regulations. Land development must also comply with all other applicable
regulations, which also include floodplain, and watershed regulations. All
applicable Health Department regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.047 CURB CUTS GIVING ACCESS TO PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   Construction of curb cuts for purposes of ingress or egress to property
abutting a public right-of way shall be approved by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation where said curbs affect access to state highways.
Provision for all access work done on highway right-of-way is subject to
approval by the Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.048 PROJECTION INTO PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   No private sign, structure, or other items shall project beyond an imaginary
line drawn 10 feet from and parallel to the outer edge of the public right-of-
way. Any projection into a public right-of-way, new or existing, shall be
removed, with the exception of mailboxes (per compliance with US Postal Service
regulations as applicable and North Carolina Department of Transportation
regulations as applicable).
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.049 HEIGHT LIMIT EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limitations contained in this chapter do not apply to spire,
belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, mechanical
equipment penthouses, or other appurtenances required to be placed above the
roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.050 CORNER VISIBILITY.
   There shall be no planting, structure, fence, or other obstruction to
visibility on any corner lot between 2 feet and 10 feet above the level of the
center line of the street in a triangular area bounded by the street right-of-
way line on such corner lots and a base line joining points along right-of-way
lines 25 feet from the intersection right -of-way corner. Per the Vance County
Subdivision Ordinance,
Chapter 155 of this Code, the following applies for vehicular sight distance
easements: triangular sight distance easements shall remain free of all
structures, trees, shrubbery, driveways, and signs, except traffic control
signs and shall be shown in dashed lines at all street intersections and so
noted on the subdivision plat. Final determination of the location and extent
of sight distance easements will be made by the jurisdiction in cooperation
with the NCDOT District Engineer.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.051 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES/BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Accessory structures/buildings shall not be placed any closer to
the front right-of-way than any portion of the dwelling. For all lots facing on
more than one road, all accessory structures shall meet the front setback
requirements for each road right-of-way. The following exceptions apply to this
rule:
         (a)   Accessory structures located on properties containing five or
more acres may be placed closer to the front setback than the dwelling, but may
not be within the front setback stated for that zoning district.
         (b)   Accessory structures located on properties that border land
owned by the U.S. Government under the control of the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers for the John H. Kerr Dam and Reservoir may be placed closer to the
front setback than the dwelling, but may not be within the front setback stated
for that zoning district.
      (2)   A survey showing all improvements and proposed improvements shall
be presumptive evidence of compliance with this section.
         (a)   Minimum side setback: 10 feet;
         (b)   Minimum rear setback: 10 feet;
         (c)   Minimum setback from principal structure: 10 feet;
         (d)   Maximum building height shall not exceed 20 feet from mean roof
height;
         (e)   In each zoning category, the maximum lot coverage - net area
(built-upon area) shall be adhered to, inclusive of the principal structure,
paving/driveways, and accessory structure/ buildings.
         (f)   No residential accessory structure shall be rented or occupied
for financial purposes and shall not be used for human habitation.
   (B)   Accessory buildings not exceeding 50 square feet and used exclusively
to house well and pump equipment may be permitted in front, side or rear yards,
provided such accessory buildings are at least 5 feet from any property lines
and do not encroach into any required easements or other site angles. An
accessory building may be located on another contiguous or non-contiguous lot
from the principal use with which it is associated, to the extent that the
principal use itself would also be permitted on such lot.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-2019)
§ 156.052 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Pools. All pools, whether above-ground or in-ground, shall be built
only in rear or side yards. The definition of a POOL shall include all
structures, and walks or patio areas of cement, stone, or wood at or above
grade, built for, and used in conjunction with the pool. A pool as defined
above shall be included in the calculations of the total allowed lot coverage
for the zoning category in which the lot is located. Pools, as defined above,
shall be setback a minimum of 10 feet from all side and rear property lines.
Patio area at grade has no setback requirements from rear and side lot lines.
Pool shall be enclosed by a privacy fence, with a childproof gate, a minimum
height of 4 feet and a maximum height of 8 feet. Pools located in rear yards on
corner lots which are greater than 22,000 square feet shall be located in the
rear yard opposite the abutting street, unless the rear yard is screened by a
wall or privacy fence.
   (B)   Satellite dishes. Satellite dishes less than 20 inches in diameter may
be located anywhere on a lot. All other satellite dishes shall adhere to the
following:
      (1)   Satellite dishes shall be no larger than 8 feet in diameter.
      (2)   The maximum height shall be 15 feet unless the applicant can prove:
         (a)   A less intrusive location is not possible; and
         (b)   A higher location will improve reception.
      (3)   The dish must be installed and grounded properly.
      (4)   Satellite dishes shall meet all appropriate setbacks applicable to
accessory structures and if located in a front yard shall meet the minimum
setback requirements for that zoning category.
      (5)   Satellite dishes shall be screened from view with dense landscaping
materials, fences, or other solid materials, to the extent that it does not
impair reception.
      (6)   Satellite dishes shall not be located on a roof.
   (C)   Solar collectors. As an accessory use, solar collectors may be roof-
mounted or freestanding, ground- or pole-mounted.
      (1)   Setbacks. All solar energy collectors, whether ground-mounted or
mounted on an existing structure, shall meet all appropriate setbacks
applicable to accessory structures and, if located in a front yard, shall meet
the minimum setback requirements for that zoning category.
      (2)   Height. The height of the structure shall not be taller than the
allowed height of a structure in the zoning district in which it is located.
Ground- or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 25 feet in height
when oriented at maximum tilt. Solar collection devices shall not be included
in computing lot coverage.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 1-7-2013)
§ 156.053 OUTDOOR DISPLAY.
   Outdoor display of merchandise for sale, which is normally required in
conducting the commercial or industrial operation, is permitted in the
appropriate zones. All nonconforming outdoor display existing on the effective
date of this chapter, which does not conform to the requirements of this
subchapter, shall be removed and/or brought into compliance within 12 months
from the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.054 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   Outdoor storage of goods, equipment and material, including, but not limited
to junk vehicles, junk appliances, trash collection areas or dumpsters, open
air docks, outdoor storage of bulk materials and/or parts, or areas regularly
used for outdoor repair areas or service stations, motor vehicle dealers, or
inspection stations, but excluding temporary construction and related
activities and closed bay docks, and other such items as trash, and other
debris shall be regulated by this chapter. In the interest of safety to
children and adjacent property owners, any approved outdoor storage shall
maintain a buffer that conceals the stored materials from public view. The
buffer shall be compact evergreen hedge or other type of evergreen foliage
screening which shall reach the height of at least 8 feet at maturity, or shall
be a combined fence and shrubbery screen. The buffer shall be maintained at a
minimum of 8 feet in height and to be determined wide enough to adequately
screen the use. Earth-berms, other topographical features and existing wooded
areas may be accepted in lieu of the above requirements, if they conceal the
use from public view. Fences shall be at least 8 feet, but no greater than 12
feet, must be opaque, and made of materials that are normally accepted in the
fencing industry. Nothing in this section will preclude the county from
enforcement against junk and abandoned vehicles as prescribed in the Vance
County Abandoned Vehicle Ordinance, Chapter 94 of this Code. All nonconforming
outdoor storage existing on the effective date of this chapter, which does not
conform to the requirements of this subchapter, shall be removed and/or brought
into compliance within 12 months from the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.055 SCREENING AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   A minimum of a 100 foot vegetative buffer (50 feet on each side) is
required for development activities along all perennial waters indicated on the
most recent versions of U.S. Geologic Survey (USGS) 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale
topographic maps or as determined by local government resources. Desirable
artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization is permitted.
   (B)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water dependent
structures and public projects such as road crossings and greenways where no
practical alternative exists. These activities should minimize built-upon
surface area, direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the use
of stormwater best management practices (BMP's).
   (C)   New or expanding uses and other uses subject to this provision must
provide a vegetative buffer along the property boundary that separates the
proposed or expanding non-residential use and the existing residential use as a
means to lessen the impact of non-residential use on the residential use. The
buffer shall be a compact evergreen hedge or other type of evergreen foliage to
be determined as adequate in width to screen the use, which shall reach the
height of at least 8 feet within 3 years, or shall be a combined fence and
shrubbery screen, with the shrubbery facing the residential use. It shall be
maintained at a minimum of 8 feet in height thereafter. The fence shall be at
least 8 feet, must be opaque, and made of materials normally accepted in the
fencing industry. Earth-berms, other topographical features and existing wooded
areas may be accepted in lieu of the above requirements, if they conceal the
use from public view.
   (D)   Buffer strips.
      (1)   Whenever a buffer strip is required by this chapter, such strip
shall meet the specifications of this section, unless other specifications are
given in the section where the buffer strip is required.
      (2)   Buffer strips shall be required whenever an industrial, commercial,
or any other nonresidential use is established adjacent to a different zone.
Buffer strips shall be required on 3 sides (rear and side lot lines) of lot,
unless a corner lot, then buffer is not required on any side lot line adjacent
to a street right-of-way lot line. The front of the lot, except for ingress/
egress, shall have 10 feet of landscaping, vegetative or natural that would not
pose a hazard for vehicular traffic, but creates a natural looking front (if
opaque or semi-opaque screening is used then this can be used in place of the
10 feet of landscaping). Refer to the example:
      (3)   Buffer strips shall become part of the lot(s) on which they are
located, or in the case of commonly-owned land, shall belong to the homeowners
or property owners association.
      (4)   Buffer strips shall be maintained for the life of the development.
Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the property owner, or, if rented,
the lessee.
      (5)   If a natural screen is already in place which will adequately
fulfill the purpose of the buffer strip, the Zoning Administrator may, in
writing, allow a substitution of all or part of this screen for the buffer
strip. Written permission of the Zoning Administrator shall be obtained before
removing an existing natural buffer in the location of the required buffer
strip. If the natural screen is removed, then the buffer screen must comply
with the buffer strip requirement.
      (6)   Where a planting screen cannot be expected to thrive because of
intense shade or soil conditions, or where lot size will not allow a planted
buffer, the Zoning Administrator may, in writing, allow the substitution of a
well-maintained wood, masonry wall, or chain link fence with slats at least 8
feet in height in place of the planted screen.
      (7)   When such permission is granted in division (D)(6) above, the
buffer strip may be used for driveway and parking so long as such use does not
interfere with the 8 foot wall or fence, and no permanent building or structure
is allowed to encroach on the buffer.
   (E)   Note for residential development adjacent to commercial/industrial
development.
      (1)   Residential development shall, when feasible, incorporate a natural
area as an undisturbed buffer (to be maintained in a natural vegetative
condition, i.e. undisturbed trees, hedges, etc.) in order to provide a
separation between residential development and commercial/industrial
development.
         (a)   This buffer shall be a minimum of 15 feet surrounding the
perimeter of any new development adjacent to other properties that are not
within the new development (not inclusive of easements).
         (b)   This buffer shall be located within the established minimum
setbacks as outlined in this chapter for the appropriate zoning category (not
as an addition).
         (c)   If no open area exists prior to development, the developer shall
not be required to plant a buffer as outlined in this division (E).
         (d)   Buffers and natural greenspace that may be included within to
meet the requirements of this sub-section shall be included with the
established homeowners association (HOA) for a subdivision and shall be
maintained shall be maintained by the HOA.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.056 LIGHTING.
   All lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and roadways.
Lighting shall be directed onto the individual owners' site only. Height
regulations shall be determined as necessary by the Vance County Plan Review
staff in complying with all appropriate state and national building codes.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.057 MANUFACTURED HOME FOR HARDSHIP.
   For the purpose of this section, a MANUFACTURED HOME FOR HARDSHIP refers to
dwelling units called MOBILE HOMES and are the same as defined in this chapter
(inclusive of single-wide and double-wide units only) - a transportable,
factory-built home designed to be used as a year-round residential dwelling and
built prior to enactment of the National Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards Act, which became effective June 15, 1976. A mobile home does
not meet the criteria for a manufactured home. A recreational vehicle or travel
trailer is not a mobile home.
   (A)   The owner of the lot of record shall be the applicant.
   (B)   The lot which contains the hardship mobile home shall contain existing
single family dwelling and shall be an approved lot or an existing lot of
record prior to the date of this chapter.
   (C)   The owner of the property shall submit proof that no private deed
restrictions and/or covenants prohibit the placement of a mobile home on a lot.
   (D)   The proposed mobile home shall only be occupied by a relative of
blood, by lineal family which shall include direct lineal descendants
(children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren), direct lineal ascendants
(father, mother, grandfather, grandmother), spouses, step child, step parents
or adopted child of the owner of the property.
   (E)   The proposed hardship mobile home shall meet the minimum setbacks of
the zone.
   (F)   A hardship mobile home shall only be permitted if a genuine hardship
exists based on medical reasons. Written documentation such as a letter on
professional stationary signed by the attending physician shall be submitted by
the applicant. Should the services of health care professional for the stated
hardship, said health care provider may reside in the mobile home for hardship.
   (G)   Only 1 hardship mobile home is permitted at a time, and each home must
meet the minimum lot area in the zoning zone as a separate and individual use.
   (H)   The mobile home shall be removed from the property when the specified
hardship ceases to exist (the mobile home shall not be rented or otherwise
occupied by any other person once the hardship ceases to exist) within 6
months.
   (I)   Upon approval, the application for the hardship mobile home shall be
reviewed 12 months from the date of approval and on annual basis thereafter to
determine if the conditions under which the approval was granted remain in
existence to warrant a continuation of approval for the hardship mobile home.
NOTE: This application is a renewable permit that is separate from a zoning
permit.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.058 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Clustering of residential lots is a development alternative (for design, not
as a use) intended to encourage more efficient subdivision design better suited
to the natural features of the land than a conventional subdivision, by
regulating lots based on lot density standards rather than minimum lot size
standards and by requiring that part of the subdivision not devoted to lots and
roads be set aside as open space. This allows a concentration of smaller lots
on those parts of the subdivision best suited to accommodate development with
the least negative impact. This type of development also allows smaller and
less costly networks of roads and utilities, reducing the amount of impervious
surface and stormwater runoff. In addition, the open space provided by
clustering can offer recreational opportunities for the subdivision's
residents, to conserve and protect natural areas and environmentally sensitive
areas, and to preserve historic resources. See §
156.032(F)(1) and (2) in reference to cluster development in the Anderson Creek
(WS-III) and Tar Pamlico (WS-IV) regarding lot sizes in these watersheds.
   (A)   (1)   Cluster development design standards. Should cluster development
be a selected design alternative, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Clustering of lots shall not be allowed on any tract of land
less than 10 acres in size for single family residential (inclusive of stick
built and modular homes) or for a combination of single family residential and
townhouses). If the development is only townhouses then a small tract of 5
acres may be allowed for clustering.
         (b)   Should clustering be selected as a design alternative, the
density requirements (for residential) and built upon area (open space)
requirements for the zone in which the development is located shall apply.
Clustering shall not increase the density of development. In watersheds, all
development must comply with the built-upon restrictions.
         (c)   Should clustering be selected as a design alternative, the
developer and county planning staff shall coordinate in a pre-development
meeting to determine applicable incentives for utilizing the clustering
provision.
         (d)   The maximum number of lots allowed within a cluster subdivision
shall be equal to the site's total land area (acreage), less the street right-
of-ways, divided by the minimum lot size of the non-clustered subdivision.
         (e)   Each lot shall be regularly shaped and have at least 40 feet of
frontage on a private or public road meeting the standards of this chapter.
Side lot lines extending from a road shall be approximately perpendicular or
radial to the road or street.
         (f)   Open space requirements shall include that land within the
subdivision site not contained in lots, streets, or utility easements, and
shall be in one or more parcels dedicated or reserved as permanent open space.
      (2)   Open space requirements.
         (a)   The total area of parcels dedicated or reserved as permanent
open space shall make up at least 20% of the subdivision. Open space shall be
dedicated or reserved for 1 or more of the following uses:
            1.   Conservation of any identifiable natural hazard areas, such as
floodways or wetlands;
            2.   Conservation and protection of identified significant natural
areas, such as rare plant communities, important wildlife habitat, or other
environmentally sensitive areas where development might threaten water quality
of ecosystems;
            3.   Conservation and protection of any identifiable important
historic resources;
            4.   Provision of active and/or passive outdoor recreation
opportunities, either for the general public or for the subdivision residents,
            5.   Retention of productive farmland or forestland for continued
agricultural and/or forestry use; or
            6.   Establishment of a conservation reservation on the remainder
of the tract, for the life of the development.
         (b)   Highest priority for the location, design, and use of open space
shall be given to conserving, and avoiding development in any natural hazard
areas on the site. Open space shall contain such buildings, structures, access
ways, and parking facilities as are necessary to its principal uses. The
location, size, character, and shape of the required open space shall be
appropriate to its intended use; active recreation shall be located and
designed so its users can easily access it.
      (3)   Open space dedication or reservation.
         (a)   Land within the subdivision site not contained in lots, streets,
or utility easements, shall be in 1 or more contiguous parcels dedicated or
reserved as permanent open space for the life of the development. The title to
the open space shall be conveyed to a property owners' association, homeowners'
association, or other legal entity (public agency or nonprofit organization)
that is capable of and willing to accept responsibility for managing the open
space for its intended purpose.
         (b)   Each dedicated or reserved open space parcel shall be shown on
all subdivision plans and on record plat recorded with the Vance County
Register of Deeds, with a notation of its area and its intended open space use.
      (4)   Maintenance of open space. The owner of the open space shall be
responsible for maintaining the open space so that it continues to effectively
function for its intended use and any dedication or conveyance of an open space
parcel shall provide for such responsibility.
      (5)   General design provisions for cluster development. Subdivisions
located in watersheds shall be designed so that lots and development sites are
concentrated in the upland areas and away from surface waters and drainage
ways, and the undeveloped areas (open space) shall remain in a vegetated or
natural state. Built-upon areas shall be sited and designed to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the watershed's receiving waters.
         (a)   Zero side and/or rear yard setbacks (for townhouse and/or
condominium development): A zero side and/or rear yard setback as permitted
herein within the cluster development only and does not refer to the setbacks
that abut adjoining properties (and as relates to the sides of dwelling units
that face open paces areas), may be permitted, subject to the following
provisions:
            1.   Any wall, constructed on the side or rear lot shall be solid,
with no doors or windows. Such wall shall contain no electrical, mechanical,
heating, air conditioning, or other fixtures that project beyond such wall.
            2.   When applicable per North Carolina and National Building Codes
a fire wall between units for townhouses and/or condominiums shall be
incorporated.
            3.   If there is an offset of the wall from the lot line, such
offset shall comply with the side yard setback requirements specified in §
156.032. Roof eaves may encroach 2 feet into the adjoining lot.
            4.   A 5 foot maintenance and access easement with a maximum eave
encroachment easement of 2 feet within the maintenance easement shall be
established on the adjoining lot and shall assure ready access to the lot line
wall at reasonable periods of the day for normal maintenance.
            5.   Where zero side or rear yard setbacks are proposed, the
buildable area for each lot shall be indicated on the preliminary and final
subdivision plat.
            6.   No structure may be located on more than 1 side lot line.
§ 156.059 ONLY 1 MAIN BUILDING/USE ON LOT, AND BUILDING ORIENTATION.
   In all zones, every main building hereafter erected or altered shall be
located on a separate lot, as defined in this chapter, and in no case shall
there be more than 1 main building and permitted accessory building on the lot
nor more than 1 main use (e.g., commercial, industrial, or residential) per
building and lot; provided that this requirement shall not apply to uses
permitted in the Table of Permitted Uses, §
156.033, within the same zone and located in the same building, nor to motels
or manufactured home parks, nor to planned building groups approved by the
Planning Board, nor to a bona fide farm use.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.060 MINIMUM YARDS.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this chapter, including
those provisions regulating intensity of use for each and every building
hereafter erected or structurally altered, shall not be encroached upon or
considered as meeting the yard or open space requirements or the intensity of
use provisions for any other building.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.061 LOT SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivision of property into individual lots shall comply with the
provisions of the Vance County Subdivision Ordinance, Chapter 155 of this Code
and this chapter. No lot shall hereafter be so reduced in area as to cause any
open space required by this chapter to be less in any dimension than is herein
required by the minimum yard requirements of the zone in which the lot in
question is located.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.062 IMPROVEMENTS BOND.
   No final certificate of occupancy/compliance for a commercial, residential,
or manufactured home park or planned development will be issued until all
required site improvements have been completed. In lieu of completion of
required site improvements, the developer of the planned development may enter
into a contract with Vance County providing for the installation of required
improvements within a designated period of time. Performance of said contract
shall be secured by a cash or surety bond which will cover the total estimated
cost of the improvements as determined by Vance County.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.063 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where a minimum lot width is specified in these regulations, it shall
be measured at the building line (also called the building setback line, or
setbacks).
   (B)   As attached to buildings, uncovered stairs, landings, terraces,
porches, balconies, loading docks, and fire escapes may project into any yard,
but such projection may not exceed 6 feet and may not be closer than 10 feet to
any lot line, except where lots located adjacent to Kerr Lake are allowed a
zero lot line setback from the US Army Corps of Engineers property line.
   (C)   Architectural projections, such as chimneys, flues, sills, eaves, belt
courses, and ornaments may project into any required yard, but such projection
shall be at least 10 feet from any lot line, except where lots located adjacent
to Kerr Lake are allowed a zero lot line setback from the US Army Corps of
Engineers property line.
   (D)   Required open space cannot be used by another building or use. No part
of a lot, yard, off-street parking area, or other required open space shall be
reduced below the minimum required by this chapter. No part of a lot, yard,
off-street parking area, or other open space required for a building or use
shall be used to satisfy the requirements of another building or use. These
prohibitions shall not be interpreted to prevent the granting of a variance, §§
156.120 through
156.131, by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, §§
156.150 through
156.158.
   (E)   Existing lots of insufficient size. Any lot of record existing when
this chapter is adopted, which has an area or width which is less than required
by this chapter, shall be subject to the following exceptions and
modifications:
      (1)   Adjoining lots. When 2 or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in 1 ownership at any time after the adoption of this chapter, and
such lots individually are less than the minimum square footage and/or have
less than the minimum width required in the zone in which they are located,
then such group of lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of
minimum permitted width and area for the zone in which located. This does not
apply to lots of record or to any lot in a subdivision which has received
preliminary or final approval from the Vance County Planning Board. However,
such lots must meet all Vance County Health Department minimum requirements.
      (2)   Lot not meeting minimum lot size requirements. Except as set forth
in division (E)(1) above, in any zone in which single-family dwellings are
permitted, any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of these
regulations which has an area or a width which is less than required by these
regulations may be used as a building site for a single family dwelling.
      (3)   Side yard requirements. Except as set forth in division (E)(1)
above, where a lot has a width less than the width required in the zone in
which it is located, then the Administrator shall be authorized to reduce the
side yard requirements for such lot, however no side yard shall be less than 10
feet wide.
(Ord. 39, passed 0-3-2011)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 156.070 GENERALLY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, pre-existing lots or structures,
or uses of lots or structures, which are prohibited under the regulations for
the zone in which they are located, shall be considered as nonconforming.
Nonconforming lots, structures or uses may be continued, provided they conform
to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.071 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter shall not be affected by this chapter, and such use may be extended
throughout the building, provided no structural alterations except those
required by law, ordinance or ordered by the Zoning Administrator to secure the
safety of the building are made therein. If such nonconforming building is
removed or the nonconforming use of such building is discontinued for a
continuous period of more than 1 year, every future use of such premises shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.072 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   The lawful use of land existing as of January 1, 2021 although such use does
not conform to the provisions of this chapter, shall not be affected by this
chapter provided, however, that no such nonconforming use shall be extended to
occupy a greater area of land than occupied by such use in existence on January
1, 2021. If such nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of
not less than 24 months, every future use of said land shall be in conformity
with the provision of this chapter. Uses deemed unlawful by this chapter, or
any other public law shall not be covered by this provision.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.073 CHANGE OF USE.
   A nonconforming use shall only be changed to a use listed as permitted or
permitted with conditions for the zone in which such a nonconforming use is
located. Uses not designated as permitted or special shall be prohibited by
this chapter in the areas delineated by the Official Zoning Map of Vance
County.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.074 RECONSTRUCTION OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the restoration of a
business or building destroyed by fire, explosion, or other casualty, if such
construction is begun 1 year of the date of such damage. Owner occupied
residences, which are nonconforming uses may be rebuilt regardless of the
extent of the destruction.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.075 NORMAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF A BUILDING CONTAINING A
NONCONFORMING USE.
   Normal maintenance and repair in a building occupied by a nonconforming use
is permitted provided it does not expand the structure nor extend the
nonconforming use.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 156.080 OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that there are some land uses, which are basically in
keeping with the intent, and purpose of the various zones created by this
chapter, yet these uses may have a significant impact on those zones. These
impacts are best determined following careful review of the specific proposal.
In order to add flexibility to this chapter, certain uses are allowed by means
of controls exercised through the special use permit process.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.081 PROCEDURES.
    Special use permits shall be granted by the Board of Adjustment as
permitted by G.S. § 160D-406 for all special uses enumerated in the Table of
Permitted Uses, §
156.033. Special uses may only be established by Board of Adjustment approval.
The owner or owners of all the property included in the petition for a special
use permit shall submit required application information to the Planning and
Development Department at least 3 weeks prior to the Board of Adjustment
meeting at which it is to be heard. Such application shall include all of the
requirements pertaining to it in this chapter. Applications shall include a
site plan as outlined in §
156.021(C) and be accompanied by a fee set according to the Planning and
Development Department Fee Schedule. The Board of Adjustment shall review all
requests for special use permits within 30 days from submittal.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.082 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ACTION.
    The Planning and Development Director or his/her designee shall submit all
applications for special use permits to the Board of Adjustment. The Board of
Adjustment shall set and advertise a date and time for a quasi-judicial hearing
on the special use permit application. The applicant shall provide to the
Planning and Development Department a list of the names and addresses of all
adjacent property owners. A notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the
Planning and Development Director or his/her designee to each person on this
list and the applicant and the owner of the subject property (if not the
applicant) at least 10 days but not more than 25 days prior to the hearing. The
person mailing such notice shall certify that such notices have been mailed.
Additionally notice of the hearing must be posted on the affected property at
least 10 days but not more than 25 days prior to the hearing. At the hearing
all interested persons shall be permitted to testify in sworn testimony. A
person who is interested in the matter but who does not have a personal stake
in the outcome (such as a likely effect on his or her property value) may
attend and observe the hearing, but they have no legal right to offer evidence,
ask questions, or otherwise directly participate in the matter. The Board of
Adjustment shall consider the application and comments at the hearing and may
grant or deny the special use permit. If the special use permit is granted, the
board of adjustment shall use as a guide, the specific conditions outlined in
this subchapter for each use proposed. In addition, the Board of Adjustment
shall find:
   (A)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health or safety
if located according to the plan submitted and approved.
   (B)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications.
   (C)   That the use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or
abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity.
   (D)   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and in general conformity with the Vance County Land Use
Plan. In granting the special use permit the Board of Adjustment may designate
only those conditions, in addition to those stated herein, which, in its
opinion, assure that the use in its proposed location will be harmonious with
the area and with the spirit of this chapter and clearly in keeping with the
public welfare. All such additional conditions shall be entered in the minutes
of the meeting, at which the special use permit is granted, on the special use
permit itself, and on the approved plans submitted therewith. All specific
conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the original
applicants for the special use permit, their heirs, successors and assigns. The
special use permit shall be signed and dated by the applicant and recorded in
the Vance County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.083 DENIALS AND APPEAL.
    If the Board denies the special use permit, it shall enter the reason for
its action in the minutes of the meeting at which the action is taken. No
appeal may be taken from the action of the Board of Adjustment in granting or
denying a special use permit except through the Vance County Superior Court.
Said appeal must be made within 30 days.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.084 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONE REGULATIONS.
    In addition to the conditions specifically imposed in this paragraph and
such further conditions as the Board of Adjustment may deem reasonable and
appropriate, special uses shall comply with all other regulations for the
zoning zone in which they are located unless the provisions for the special use
provide to the contrary.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.085 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLANS/NOTIFICATION OF ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNERS.
    In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the Board of
Adjustment, or with any other conditions imposed upon the special use permit,
within 60 days, the permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no
effect. No building permits for further construction or certificates of
occupancy under this special use permit shall be issued, and all completed
structures shall be regarded as nonconforming uses subject to the provisions of
this chapter. In such cases, owners of adjoining property shall be notified
that the special use permit is no longer in effect.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.086 EXPIRATION.
   In any case where a special use permit has not been exercised within the
time limit set by the Board of Adjustment, or within 2 years if no specific
time limit has been set, then without further action, the permit shall be null
and void. EXERCISED as set forth in this section shall mean that binding
contracts for the construction of the main building have been let; or in
absence of contracts that the main building is under construction to a
substantial degree; or that prerequisite conditions involving substantial
investment are contracted for, in substantial development; or completed
(sewerage, drainage, etc.). When construction is not a part of the use,
EXERCISED shall mean that the use is in operation in compliance with the
conditions set forth in the permit.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.087 MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
    Where plans are required to be submitted and approved as part of the
application for a special use permit, the Board of Adjustments may authorize
modifications of the original plans.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.088 SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Specific requirements.  Site plans, in accordance with §
156.021(C), shall be submitted with the application. Also, site plans submitted
for the purpose of obtaining a special use permit shall indicate the following
(when applicable):
      (1)   Location and dimensions of outdoor activity areas including outdoor
storage;
      (2)   Location and type of outdoor lighting;
      (3)   Areas of environmental concern (inclusive of floodplains, surface
waters, and drainage ways. This shall also include documentation for soils
suitability, air quality, and all appropriate local, state, federal agency
documentation/approval).
   (B)   Prior to approval of the site plan, county planning staff may consult
with other qualified personnel for assistance to determine if the application
meets the requirements of this chapter. Individual special uses may require
more information, as given in this section or elsewhere in this chapter (if
applicable), or as outlined in §
156.089.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may require other information, as it deems
necessary in order to determine if the proposal meets all requirements and will
not endanger persons or property. The Board of Adjustment may impose reasonable
conditions (i.e. hours of operation, parking requirements, and additional site
safety and security measures) in addition to those given in this section and
elsewhere in this chapter. In order to do this, the Board must determine that
additional conditions are necessary to protect the welfare and safety of the
public and of property, or to meet the tests given elsewhere in this section.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.089 SPECIAL USE MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the conditions listed above for special uses, some uses,
which, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when several such uses
are concentrated under certain circumstances, which can thereby cause a
detrimental effect upon adjacent areas. Conditional regulation of these uses is
necessary to insure that these negative effects will not contribute to the
blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood. These conditional
regulations are itemized in this section. The primary control or regulation is
for the purpose of preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area
(i.e. not more than 1 such use within 1,000 feet of each other which would
create such adverse effects). The requirements for each use that follows are
additional requirements to the requirements listed in §
156.082 and §§
156.030 through
156.033,
156.040 through
156.063:
   (A)   Adult entertainment establishments.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements. No adult entertainment establishments may
be located within 1,000 feet of another adult entertainment establishment. That
distance shall be measured from the exterior walls of the building(s)
containing such regulated use.
         (a)   No adult entertainment establishment may be located within 1,000
feet of any residential use or from the property line of the adult
establishment to the property line of the residential unit (s), churches,
synagogues, temples, nursery schools, child care centers and public or private
schools in all zoning zones, which will be measured from the property line(s)
containing such regulated use. Areas zoned for residential use shall be
classified as A-R, R-30, R-20, R-10, R-M-H-C, and shall include residential
uses in the O-S and W-O-Z Zones.
      (2)   Screening and buffering. Shall comply as necessary with §
156.055.
      (3)   A required plan shall be submitted that shows the location of
existing structures on property within 1,000 feet of exterior wall(s) of the
regulated use, and the zoning properties within 1,000 feet of each property
line of the regulated use from the property line of the adjacent use.
      (4)   Hours of operation shall be between 11:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
Monday through Thursday and until 12:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
      (5)   All viewing booths shall be open and visible to the manager(s) of
the establishment.
      (6)   If applicable, no viewing booth shall be occupied by more than 1
person at a time.
      (7)   If applicable there shall be a minimum separation of 6 feet between
patrons and performers.
      (8)   Servers of food and beverage shall at all times wear a shirt and
pants.
      (9)   No nude or semi-nude service/entertainment of any kind shall be
allowed outside the building of a regulated use.
      (10)   The adult establishment shall be limited to 1 wall sign per
premise; the sign shall be internally lighted, and shall be allowed maximum
size of 20 square feet.
      (11)   No adult establishment shall allow, permit or condone patronage of
any person under the age of 18 years of age upon the premises of the business.
   (B)   Airports (include heliports, private landing strips and general
aviation).
      (1)   An airport under this section and as defined in §
156.015 shall demonstrate compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Heliports (see §
156.015, refers to the entire site): Dimensional requirements for this use
shall be a minimum site of 5 acres.
            1.   Setbacks from helicopter pads shall be at least 100 feet for
each helicopter operating from the facility, up to a maximum setback of 400
feet.
         (b)   Private landing strips: Dimensional requirements for this use
shall be a minimum of 10 acres.
            1.   An area equal to 15% of the runway length shall be within the
site at both ends of the runway.
            2.   The setback from the runway shall be a minimum of 100 feet for
each aircraft operating from the facility, up to a maximum of 400 feet.
            3.   No dwelling unit shall be within 500 feet of either end of the
runway.
         (c)   General aviation airport: Dimensional requirements for this use
shall be 100 acres. Development plans for this classification shall be
submitted with a noise impact assessment. Said assessment shall identify the
initial 20 year projected day-night level (DNL - see §
156.015) noise contour lines beginning with 50 DNL and proceeding to 75 DNL.
            1.   The 20 year, 70 DNL line shall be completely contained within
the airport property, or adjacent land that has been granted a noise easement.
            2.   If the 55 DNL area expands, land use plan for all land within
the 55 DNL noise contour shall be submitted.
            3.   This plan shall indicate the feasibility of restricting such
land to non-residential uses.
            4.   Airport approval shall be based on the ability to minimize
noise intrusion (pollution) to existing residential areas and to prohibit
residential development that would limit future airport expansion.
            5.   Once established, Vance County shall require all re-zonings
that would permit residential use within the 20 year, 55 DNL noise contour to
record the noise contours on the property.
            6.   All developments and all individual lot surveys would be
required to identify (illustrate) the noise contours, to be indicated on the
preliminary and final plats as reviewed by the Vance County Planning and
Development Department and Vance County Planning Board. In addition, to be
included on the final recorded plat for the development, a warning would
accompany all such lots to indicate that Vance County will not limit future
airport expansion due to residential development within the 55 DNL noise
contour.
            7.   This use (general aviation airport) shall be separated from
all residential districts and schools by a minimum of 1,500 feet.
    (C)   Automobile and other storage, parking, junk, salvage, or wrecking
yards including manufactured home storage and/or junk yard.
      (1)   For the purpose of protecting the residents of Vance County from
possible injury at junkyards (also called salvage yards), preserving the
aesthetic quality of the local natural resources, preserving the integrity of
land in close proximity to residential areas, and protecting and enhancing the
economic viability and interest of the county residents, the following minimum
standards for salvage/junkyards apply:
         (a)   Dimensional requirements:
            1.   Minimum parcel size shall be at least 4 acres excluding right-
of-ways; and
            2.   Minimum setback from any property line to any buildings
(except existing buildings), equipment, operations (except roads) or junk shall
be at least 50 feet excluding right-of-ways, unless an opaque or semi-opaque
fence is utilized then the setbacks from property lines shall be at least 25
feet.
         (b)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage shall meet the
requirements of §
156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in accordance with §
156.055.
         (c)   Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height
requirement and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when
not open for business.
         (d)   Existing nonconforming junkyards and/or salvage yards:
            1.   All existing junkyards and/or salvage yards have previously
been given an amortization period of 30 days from June 2, 2008 (adoption of
original junkyard ordinance, Ord. No 37). As such, junkyards and/or salvage
yards not registered during that time are considered new and shall adhere to
the regulations for such new establishments. Existing junkyards and/or salvage
yards are exempt from the following within this section:
               a.   Division (C)(1)(a)1.
               b.   Division (C)(1)(e)2.
               c.   Division (C)(1)(e)3.
               d.   Division (C)(1)(e)4.
            2.   Owners and operators of junkyards and/or salvage yards shall
be registered with the NC Department of Revenue.
            3.   Shall comply with state and federal requirements for
commercial uses and all applicable environmental requirements.
         (e)   New junkyards and/or salvage yard approved as a special use:
            1.   Shall have a site plan approved.
            2.   No junk, salvage, or wrecking yard shall be located closer
than 1,000 feet to a pre-existing church, school, day care center, nursing
home, skilled health care facility, hospital, public buildings, public
recreation facilities, historical buildings, lakes, watershed areas, floodplain
areas, residences, or residential areas (excluding residence of the owner or
his agent).
            3.   No junk, salvage, or wrecking yard shall be located less than
1,000 feet from any property used or zoned for residential purposes. Areas
zoned for residential use shall be classified as R-30, R-20, R-10, R-M-H-C, and
shall include residential uses in the O-S and W-O-Z Zones.
            4.   Shall not have a driveway or entrance roadway located closer
than 60 feet from any side property line; and
            5.   Shall be fenced and screened completely, at minimum, with a
protective fence, and screened from public view with vegetation.
            6.   Shall be registered with the NC Department of Revenue.
            7.   Shall comply with state and federal requirements for
commercial uses and all applicable environmental requirements.
         (f)   Annual inspections of junkyards/salvage yard:
            1.   The Vance Granville Health Department or NC DENR shall inspect
each junkyard annually to determine that no vectors are present. Should vectors
be identified, the owner, operator or maintainer shall immediately take steps
to eliminate such vectors and shall submit satisfactory evidence to the Health
Department and the Planning and Development Department that such vectors have
been eliminated.
            2.   Annual fire and safety inspections shall be made by the Vance
County Fire Inspector or designee and a certificate of compliance issued.
Failure to comply with inspection requirements may result in revocation of
permits or other penalties and remedies as provided for in §§
156.020,
156.021 and
156.999.
   (D)   Commercial and/or non-residential uses in residential zoned areas.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements: The Zone dimensional requirements shall
apply.
      (2)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage must meet the requirements
of §
156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in accordance with §
156.055.
      (3)   Lighting: Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and
roadways. Lighting shall be directed onto the applicant’s site only.
      (4)   Access: Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street (see §§
156.100 through
156.111).
   (E)   Electronic gaming operations.
      (1)   Days/hours of operation: Businesses engaging in electronic gaming
operations activities may operate from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday and 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight Friday and Saturday nights.
      (2)   The maximum number of machines/terminals/computers for any
electronic gaming operations business is 20.
      (3)   Minimum paved parking spaces:
         (a)   One space per every 2 terminals or 1 space per every 100 square
feet of total floor area, whichever is greater;
         (b)   One handicapped space per every 25 or fewer spaces;
         (c)   One in every 8 accessible spaces, but not less than 1, shall be
served by an access aisle 96 inches wide minimum and shall be designated “van
accessible”;
         (d)   One additional space per each 1 employee.
      (4)   If food or beverage is served, the establishment must meet the
requirements of the Vance County Health Department, including any and all
necessary permits and/or licenses.
      (5)   The establishment must be a minimum of 300 feet from any building
being used as a dwelling.
      (6)   The establishment must be a minimum of 2,000 feet from any other
organization engaged in an electronic gaming operations business or any adult
or sexually oriented business.
      (7)   The establishment must be a minimum of 2,000 feet from any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, daycare center/home;
library, public park, recreation area or motion picture establishment where “G”
or “PG” rated movies are shown to the general public on a regular basis.
      (8)   A straight-line drawing shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing electronic gaming businesses within 2,000 feet of the property; the
property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school,
daycare center/home; library, public park, recreation area or motion picture
establishment where “G” or “PG” rated movies are shown to the general public on
a regular basis that is within 2,000 feet of the property. For purposes of this
section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (9)   Measurement of distance separation shall be in a straight line from
the closest point of the buildings at which the internet café/sweepstakes
business is located.
   (F)   Industrial uses in non-industrial zones. 
      (1)   Dimensional requirements: The Zone dimensional requirements shall
apply.
      (2)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage must meet the requirements
of §
156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in accordance with §
156.055.
   (G)   Landfill (demolition, sanitary, land clearing inert debris).
      (1)   Distance requirements (only applies to demolition or sanitary
landfills): The landfill or any structure must be a minimum of 1,000 feet from
any residential structure on surrounding properties. An owner occupied
residence on the property of the tract is allowed. All buildings, including
accessory garages or storage buildings, shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet
from all property lines and street right-of-ways.
      (2)   Screening, buffering, and fencing: Outdoor storage must meet the
requirements of §
156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in accordance with §
156.055.
         (a)   Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height
requirement and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when
not open for business.
         (b)   Screening is required which completely screens from view the
stored items. Such screening shall be a durable wall or fence at least 8 feet
high in addition to a minimum 15 foot wide vegetated strip around the entire
perimeter of any outdoor storage area. This vegetated strip shall consist of a
naturally wooded area or planted with a mixture of evergreen and deciduous
trees and shrubs to simulate a naturally wooded area.
      (3)   Licensing requirements.
         (a)   LCID (Land Clearing Inert Debris) landfills minor, under two
acres, require a copy of the facility plan approved by NCDEQ to be filed with
the county planning department. Landfills major, greater than two acres,
require a copy of the licensing issued by the North Carolina Division of Waste
Management to be filed with the County Planning Department.
         (b)   LCID (Land Clearing Inert Debris) landfill facilities may not
operate prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. unless allowed by the County
Manager in responding to excess debris resulting from a natural disaster.
   (H)   Mining and quarrying or other extraction operations.
      (1)   Additional site plan requirements:
         (a)   The names and addresses of property owner(s) or developers(s)
and the designer or registered surveyor or professional engineer, if the plans
are drawn other than by the property owner, operator or developer.
         (b)   Date, scale and approximate north arrow.
         (c)   Boundaries of the tract, parcel, plot or lot shown with bearing
and distances.
         (d)   Buffers, ingress and egress, surrounding land usage and any
other specific information pertinent to the parcel, plot or lot.
         (e)   A vicinity map showing the location of the parcel, plot or lot.
         (f)   The names for each adjoining property owner, shown on the
parcel, plot or lot they own.
         (g)   Land contours with vertical intervals of not less than 10 feet.
U.S.G.S. 7.5 Minute Topographical Quadrangle Maps are acceptable.
         (h)   When an expansion is being requested, the size and location of
any existing area that is being operated as a mine or mining operation.
         (i)   A letter or other certification of approval must be submitted
from the North Carolina Department of Transportation, as to the safety and
design of the access or entrance on to a state maintained street or road from
the mine. In place of this requirement, the applicant may submit a completed
application as required by the State of North Carolina for a mining permit.
      (2)   Access: Access to a mine or mining operation must be from a road or
street that is a state maintained road or a private road with a right-of-way
width of not less than 30 feet and a cleared or drivable area of not less than
20 feet. Any ingress or egress that does not abut one of the above roads,
entrance etc. must also have a right-of-way width of not less than 30 feet and
a cleared and drivable area that is adequately maintained at all times for
vehicular travel and that is at least 20 feet in width.
      (3)   Screening and buffering: An area of land, which shall not be less
than 150 feet in width, (unless the Board of Adjustment approves a lesser
width) shall be provided along all boundaries of the affected land with the
exception of permitted ingress and egress to public roadways. This buffer area
may be left in a natural vegetative state if sufficient visual buffering is
provided otherwise the buffer, where practicable, must be planted with trees,
shrubs or plants that create a visual screen. Trees, plants, and ground covers
to be planted must be native to the area and trees shall not be less than 8
feet in height when mature. Alternatively, an earthen berm (or berms) may be
placed within the buffer for visual screening. Any berm must have a vegetative
groundcover and side slopes sufficient to minimize erosion. If the berm(s) is
(are) less than ten feet in height, trees not less than 6 feet in height at the
crown shall be planted on the berm(s) to supplement visual screening.
      (4)   Additional considerations: In the case of denial because all the
requirements of this section were not met, the application may be resubmitted
when all requirements have been met, with no additional fee required, provided
the plan is resubmitted within 180 days of the notice of rejection or denial.
Following approval by the Vance County Board of Adjustment, the Zoning
Administrator is authorized to issue a special use permit. No site disturbing
activities are allowed until all required permits have been issued by the State
of North Carolina, including but not limited to a mining permit, an air quality
permit and a water quality permit.
      (5)   If compliance with all terms of approval by the Vance County Board
of Adjustment has not been completed within 1 year (365 days) from the date of
approval of the application by the Board of Adjustment, the approval of the
application and special use permit shall be null and void and a new application
must be submitted, unless the Board of Adjustment authorizes an extension
beyond the 1 year time limit.
   (I)   Non-single-family residential: multi-family residential, group homes,
camp or care centers and campground, public and private (including recreational
vehicle park), manufactured home parks (see the Vance County ordinances for
requirements to establish manufactured home parks), motels, hotels, and other
temporary residential use
      (1)   Non-single-family residential (multi-family residential).
         (a)   Dimensional requirements: Large scale multi-family dwelling
developments shall comply with the lot, yard, and height requirements of the
district in which the development is located, unless otherwise provided herein
or by the Board of Adjustment. The dimensional requirements shall apply to the
entire development proposal rather than to only individual structures.
         (b)   Landscaping, buffers, and screening: Outdoor storage must meet
the requirements of § 156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in
accordance with §
156.055.
         (c)   Other requirements: Individual structures shall be separated by
at least 40 feet end-to-end, and 50 feet in all other configurations. No multi-
family structure shall be more than 200 feet in length. There shall be provided
a minimum of 300 square feet of usable open space for each multi-family unit.
Such open space shall be improved active and passive recreation areas for the
use of residents thereof.
         (d)   Roads: Private, hard surface, drives are required. Individual
structures or land uses need not front on a public street. Private drives shall
allow for public safety vehicles to efficiently maneuver. The developer shall
provide an assurance bond as outlined in §
156.062, acceptable to the Board of Adjustment, that the owner, homeowners
association, or agent thereof, will assume maintenance responsibilities for all
private drives.
         (e)   Utilities: Utilities, including storm sewers, sanitary sewers,
refuse collection; water system shall be submitted by the project engineer for
review by the Vance County plan review staff. As-built drawings of the
facilities will be required where the utilities are to be dedicated to, and
accepted by, the county, city or state, or any other public entity. The
developer shall provide assurances, acceptable to the Board of Adjustment, that
the owner, homeowners association, or agent thereof, will assume maintenance
responsibilities for all private utility systems.
         (f)   Parking: Requirements for parking shall meet the calculations
outlined in the Table of Permitted Uses, §
156.033 and those identified in §§
156.100 through
156.111 (if applicable).
      (2)   Camp or care centers and campground, public and private (including
recreational vehicle park).
         (a)   Dimensional requirements: In areas with developed campsites,
separate sanitary facilities for both sexes (including showers) shall be
available within 400 feet of each campsite and drinking water shall be
available within 100 feet of each campsite.
         (b)   In areas with developed campsites (those with paved/gravel camp
sites and accessory structures for use by patrons), a camp store may be
provided, which may sell camping supplies, e.g. food, ice, personal supplies,
etc.
         (c)   In primitive camping areas (those without paved/gravel camp
sites and no accessory structures), drinking water and sanitary facilities
shall be available within 1,200 feet of the campground.
         (d)   In areas with developed campsites, each campsite shall have a
minimum of parking for 2 vehicles.
         (e)   Adequate lighting shall be provided for all common areas,
including interior lighting in any building open at night. All sanitary
facilities and dumping areas, water faucets, parking areas (other than at each
campsite), recreation areas, and other service buildings and general use sites
shall be lit at night, either with a light mounted on the building or as a pole
light. In developed camping areas, lights will be installed along walkways to
water and sanitary facilities and at roadway or driveway intersections.
         (f)   All outdoor lighting shall have a total cutoff at 90 degrees.
         (g)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage must meet the
requirements of §
156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in accordance with §
156.055.
         (h)   Additional plan requirements:
            1.   Topography of the site, at contour interval no greater than 5
feet.
            2.   Natural features such as streams, lakes or ponds, rocky
outcrops, wooded areas, marshes, meadow land, or any other site in interest.
            3.   Historic sites and cemeteries.
            4.   Location and approximate size of all buildings and structures
within 500 feet.
            5.   Proposed layout of campground, natural and developed camping
areas (includes individual sites, cabins, recreation areas, drinking water
outlets, sanitary disposal facilities, comfort stations, other service
buildings.
            6.   In submitting a preliminary plan with the special use permit
application, upon completion of review by the Board of Adjustments, if there
are no changes to be made to the preliminary plan and the special use permit is
approved, then no final plan review is required.
         (i)   Additional site operational requirements:
            1.   In developed camping areas, an attendant will be on the site
24 hours a day while the campground is open for business.
            2.   A public phone in working order shall be available.
            3.   A fire extinguisher shall be available at each service
building and at the office.
            4.   Individual campsites and general use areas shall be kept clean
and free from garbage, refuse, litter, and other conditions, which can lead to
the transmission of disease, breeding of rodents and insects, and which may
present a fire hazard or contribute to the spread of fire.
            5.   All sanitary, laundry, and drinking water facilities shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and kept in good repair at all times.
      (3)   Manufactured housing parks: (Refer to the Vance County Manufactured
Housing Park Ordinances,
Chapter 152 of this Code for requirements to establish manufactured housing
parks). Where applicable to develop a manufactured home community (also called
a mobile home park) in other zoning categories as identified in this chapter,
the more restrictive regulations of that particular zoning category shall apply
in addition to the development standards as outlined in
Chapter 152.
      (4)   Motels, hotels, and other temporary residential use.
         (a)   Dimensional requirements: The zone dimensional requirements
shall apply.
         (b)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage must meet the
requirements of §
156.054. Screening and buffering must be provided in accordance §
156.055.
         (c)   Lighting: Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property
and roadways and shall be directed onto the applicant’s site only.
         (d)   Access: Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street. (Also see §§
156.100 through
156.111).
         (e)   Parking: Requirements for parking shall meet the calculations
outlined in the Table of Permitted Uses, §
156.033 and those identified in §§
156.100 through
156.111 (if applicable).
         (f)   Other requirements: 
            1.   Roads: Private, hard surface, drives are required. Individual
structures or land uses need not front on a public street. Private drives shall
allow for public safety vehicles to efficiently maneuver. The developer shall
provide, an assurance bond as outlined in §
156.062, acceptable to the Board of Adjustment, that the owner, homeowners
association, or agent thereof, will assume maintenance responsibilities for all
private drives.
            2.   Utilities: Utilities, including storm sewers, sanitary sewers,
refuse collection, and water system shall be submitted by the project engineer
for review by the Vance County plan review staff. As-built drawings of the
facilities will be required where the utilities are to be dedicated to, and
accepted by, the county, city or state, or any other public entity. The
developer shall provide assurances, acceptable to the Board of Adjustment, that
the owner, homeowners association, or agent thereof, will assume maintenance
responsibilities for all private utility systems.
   (J)   Public and semi public uses; facilities and buildings including
schools, colleges, hospitals, parks, community centers and other similar uses.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements: The Zone dimensional requirements shall
apply.
      (2)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage shall meet the
requirements of §
156.054. If the development is located within 30 to 100 feet of the adjacent
property line of an existing residential occupied property, screening and
buffering shall be provided in accordance with §
156.055.
      (3)   Lighting: Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and
roadways. Lighting shall be directed onto the applicant’s site only.
      (4)   Access: Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street. (Also see §§
156.100 through
156.111).
      (5)   Parking: Requirements for parking shall meet the calculations
outlined in the Table of Permitted Uses. §
156.033, and those identified in §§
156.100 through
156.111 (if applicable).
   (K)   Radio and television studios.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements: The Zone dimensional requirements shall
apply. Transmission towers shall be setback a minimum distance that equals half
the towers height subject to engineering plans and requirements.
      (2)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage must meet the requirements
of §
156.054. If the development is located within 30 to 100 feet of the adjacent
property line of an existing residential occupied property, he/she must provide
a screening and buffering in accordance with §
156.055.
      (3)   Lighting: Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and
roadways. Lighting shall be directed onto the applicant’s site only.
      (4)   Access: Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street. (Also see §§
156.100 through
156.111).
      (5)   Parking: Requirements for parking shall meet the calculations
outlined in the Table of Permitted Uses, §
156.033, and those identified in §§
156.100 through
156.111 (if applicable).
   (L)   Recreation, outdoor (including, but not limited to, ball fields,
swimming pools, horseback riding trails, saddle clubs and community rodeos).
      (1)   Dimensional requirements: The Zone dimensional requirements shall
apply.
      (2)   Screening and buffering: Outdoor storage shall meet the
requirements of §
156.054. Screening and buffering shall be in accordance with §
156.055.
      (3)   Lighting: Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and
roadways. Lighting shall be directed onto the applicant’s site only.
      (4)   Access: Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street.
      (5)   Parking: Requirements for parking shall meet the calculations
outlined in the Table of Permitted Uses, §
156.033, and those identified in §§
156.100 through
156.111 (if applicable).
      (6)   Hours of operation: Hours of operation are limited to 7:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m. with the exception of any use that may require overnight stay, such
as a bed and breakfast or campground.
   (M)   Shooting ranges.
      (1)   The purpose of the following requirements is to promote and to
protect the public health, welfare, and safety by regulating existing and
proposed shooting ranges. The requirements are intended to minimize the adverse
effects on adjoining properties relating to shot containment and noise
mitigation. Each shooting range facility shall be designed to contain the
bullets, shot, arrows and ricochets discharged on or within the range facility.
Each shooting range shall also be designed to minimize off-site noise impacts
generated by the activities conducted on the range facility. This section does
not otherwise apply to the general discharge of firearms or the use of bows and
arrows in accordance with other applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   Existing shooting ranges: Existing shooting ranges shall be
considered nonconforming and will be subject to the “grandfather clause” in
accordance with §§
156.070 through
156.075.
      (3)   Performance standards: The following performance standards shall
apply to all shooting range facilities:
         (a)   Shot containment. Shooting range facilities shall be designed to
contain all of the bullets, shot, arrows or other projectiles or any other
debris on the range facility.
         (b)   Noise mitigation. Noise levels measured at the property line
shall not exceed 65 dBA when located adjacent to residential or commercial
property or 75 dBA when adjacent to industrial property.
      (4)   Development requirements:
         (a)   Minimum design requirements. Where not otherwise specified
within this chapter, shooting range facilities shall apply for and have a Range
Technical Team Advisor from the National Rifle Association (NRA) or an
equivalent organization inspect and evaluate the range according to the
guidelines specified by the NRA’s Range Source Book: A Guide to Planning and
Construction, current edition, and follow the suggestions made by the advisor.
         (b)   Setbacks. Notwithstanding the performance standards above the
following setbacks shall apply.
            1.   All shooting stations and targets on a range facility shall be
located a minimum of 300 feet from any property line; and
            2.   The surface danger zone shall be contained within the leased
boundary line of the range facility on leased land or the property boundary
line for non-leased land.
         (c)   Warning signs. Warning signs meeting National Rifle Association
(NRA) guidelines for shooting ranges shall be posted at 100 foot intervals
along the entire perimeter of the shooting range facility and along the entire
perimeter of the property lines in the same intervals.
         (d)   Distance from occupied dwelling. All shooting stations, targets,
and firing lines shall be located at least ½ mile from any existing, occupied
dwelling.
         (e)   Access to facility. Access to the facility and shooting range
shall be secured and controlled, with ingress and egress permitted only during
operating hours as established below. Prior to issuance of a permit, a valid
driveway permit must be obtained from North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
         (f)   Written variance. The distance requirements of this section may
be varied with written permission in the form of an affidavit from all
adjoining property owners and all rightful leaseholders of dwellings located
within the ½ mile surrounding area affected thereby, except that written
approval is not needed for any adjoining land owned by the State of North
Carolina.
      (5)   Operational requirements:
         (a)   Maintenance. Where not otherwise specified within this chapter,
shooting range facilities shall be operated and maintained in a manner that
shall meet or exceed the guidelines as specified by the Range Technical Team
Advisor upon inspection going by the guidelines in the NRA’s Range Source Book:
A Guide to Planning and Construction, current edition.
         (b)   Best management practices. Outdoor shooting ranges shall provide
a plan outlining its best management practices (BMPs) relating to lead
management. Said plan shall meet or exceed the guidelines as specified by the
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Best Management Practices for Lead at
Outdoor Shooting Ranges, current edition.
         (c)   Hours of operation. Shooting ranges shall be allowed to operate
between sunrise and sunset Monday through Saturday, except that the hours may
be extended after sunset for purposes of subdued-lighting certification of law
enforcement officers, or may be extended for other purposes only when a permit
allowing such activity is issued in advance by the Sherriff’s Office.
         (d)   Liability insurance. The permittee shall be required to carry a
minimum of $3,000,000 per occurrence of liability insurance. Such insurance
shall name Vance County as an additional insured party and shall save and hold
Vance County, its elected and appointed officials, and employees acting within
the scope of their duties harmless from and against all claims, demands, and
causes of action of any kind or character, including the cost of defense
thereof, arising in favor of a person or group’s members or employees or third
parties on account of any property damage arising out of the acts or omissions
of the permittee, his/her group, club, or its agents or representatives. The
county shall be notified of any policy changes or lapses in coverage
   (N)   Wireless communications towers (cell towers).
      (1)   The purpose of the following requirements is to promote and to
protect the public health, welfare, and safety by regulating existing and
proposed communication towers. The requirements are intended to protect
property values, create a more attractive economic and business climate, and
enhance and protect the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas.
      (2)   General requirements. When allowed, such towers and associated
equipment shall be subject to the following additional requirements:
         (a)   Towers shall not interfere with normal radio and television
reception in the vicinity. Commercial messages shall not be displayed on any
tower. Violations shall be considered zoning violations and shall be corrected
under the enforcement provisions.
         (b)   Lighting shall not exceed the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) minimum if lighting is required by the FAA. The lights shall be oriented
so as not to project directly onto surrounding residential property, consistent
with FAA requirements. Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant
shall be required to submit documentation from the FAA that the lighting is the
minimum lighting required by the FAA.
         (c)   Towers shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with
all applicable building code requirements.
         (d)   In order to protect the public from unnecessary exposure to
electromagnetic radiation, the tower owner shall provide appropriate Federal
Communications Commissioner (FCC) documentation indicating that the power
output levels do not exceed federally approved levels.
         (e)   In allowed districts, towers of 75 feet or more require that a
special use permit be granted by the Board of Adjustment. The Board of
Adjustment may consider variances up to 10 % of the setback requirements for
such towers as a part of the Special Use Permit approval.
         (f)   1.   To encourage shared use of towers, the applicant for new
wireless facilities shall be required to evaluate the reasonable feasibility of
collocating new antennas and equipment on an existing wireless support
structure or structures within the applicant's search ring. The Board of
Adjustment may allow a new wireless facility to be placed within their search
ring which includes existing wireless facilities upon being presented with
written documentation that:
               a.   Appropriate space on the tower is not available,
               b.   The petitioner has made good faith efforts to negotiate an
agreement with the owner of the existing wireless facility, or
               c.   Equipment currently on the tower is not compatible with the
proposed equipment.
            2.   If the petitioner cannot locate on an existing tower and a new
tower has to be constructed, the height of the tower cannot exceed 200 feet.
The new tower cannot be located closer than one mile from an existing tower.
         (g)   All new towers shall be constructed to be able to accommodate at
least 2 or more users so that future co-location will be available. In
addition, reasonable accommodation for public service uses is also suggested.
      (3)   When permitted, towers shall conform to the following dimensional
requirements:
         (a)   On top of structures. Towers (with the exception of concealed
towers) may not be located on top of structures in any residential district.
Towers which are located on top of structures in nonresidential districts
(which are not tower accessory structures) shall not be more than 75 feet above
the top of the structure. The structure shall meet the normal setbacks of the
zone.
         (b)   Setbacks. Towers located on the ground or top of a tower
accessory structure:
            1.   If the tower is more than 75 feet high and adjacent to,
inside, or separated by a public right-of-way from property that is
residentially zoned or used, the setback shall be 1 foot for every foot in
height, or the setback of the zoning district, whichever is greater. If the
tower is more than 75 feet in height and adjacent to, inside, or separated by a
public right-of-way from nonresidential property, the setbacks shall be 1 foot
for every 2 feet in height or the setback in the zoning district, whichever is
greater, and in no case less than 50 feet.
            2.   To encourage shared use of towers, applications for towers
which will operate with more than one user immediately upon completion may
reduce setbacks from adjacent nonresidential property. The setback from
adjacent nonresidential property may be reduced by 25% when 2 users commit to
occupy the tower immediately upon its completion, or reduced by 50% when 3 or
more users commit to occupy the tower immediately upon its completion. However,
the required setback distance may not be reduced to less than 50 feet. The
reductions do not apply if the tower adjoins a residential zone on any side.
            3.   No setbacks shall be required if the tower is to be located on
an existing structure.
      (4)   Residential district. Towers (with the exception of concealed
towers) where allowed in residential districts shall conform to the following
setbacks:
         (a)   Where allowed, towers 75 feet or more in height may be permitted
subject to the issuance of a special use permit. A tower shall have a setback
from all property lines that is in compliance with this section.
         (b)   To prevent a clear view of the base of the tower, the setback
shall contain an established forested area with a depth of at least 100 feet.
When the 100-foot forested area requirement cannot be met, a natural buffer
shall be provided as required in division (5) below. The Board of Adjustment,
when deciding the special use permit, may reduce the setback adjacent to
nonresidential property upon consideration of circumstances which reduce the
offsite effects of the tower such as topography, berms, the proximity of other
existing or potential uses, and existing vegetation and improvements made to
the site to obscure or reduce the visibility of the tower. The Board of
Adjustment shall not reduce the required setback from adjacent property which
has residential use.
         (c)   No outdoor storage yards shall be allowed on tower sites,
storage buildings that are secondary and/or incidental to the primary use of
the site are allowed within the provisions of the designated zoning category.
      (5)   Buffers.
         (a)   The base of the tower, any guy wires, and any associated
structures, walls, or fences shall be surrounded by a landscaped buffer. The
site developer may have the option of:
            1.   Providing a buffer around the tower base and associated items
individually; or
            2.   Providing a buffer around the perimeter of the entire site.
         (b)   A 10-foot buffer shall be provided between the tower and the
property boundaries in all zones other than residential. In all residential
zones, the buffer shall be a minimum of 25 feet in width.
         (c)   The planting shall consist of a mix of deciduous or evergreen
trees and evergreen shrubs. Trees shall be planted along the full length of the
buffer strip in a triangular pattern with a maximum spacing of 25 feet on
centers. The minimum height at planting for trees shall be 6 feet, and they
shall have an expected minimum maturity height of 35 feet under normal growing
conditions. There shall also be 1 row of dense shrubs, spaced not more than 8
feet on centers. Shrubs shall be a minimum of 2 feet high at planting and shall
have a minimum expected maturity height of 8 feet under normal growing
conditions. It is the intent of this section to encourage the use of existing
vegetation in whole or in part to meet this requirement.
      (6)   Site plan requirements. The following information must be supplied
with the site plan or building permit application for towers that are 75 feet
in height or more prior to any approval:
         (a)   Identification of the intended user(s) of the tower.
         (b)   Documentation provided by registered engineer that the tower has
sufficient structural integrity to accommodate more than 1 user.
         (c)   Documentation by the applicant that no suitable existing
facilities within the coverage area are available to the applicant.
         (d)   A statement indicating the owner’s intent to allow shared use of
the tower and how many other users can be accommodated.
      (7)   Co-location. To further encourage co-location, additional users and
associated equipment that do not add to the tower’s height may be added without
additional approval. However, additional Building Code regulations may apply.
Site plans must show the locations for at least 2 equipment buildings, even if
the tower is proposed for a single user.
      (8)   Collocation of small wireless facilities.
         (a)   Small wireless facilities that meet the height requirements of
G.S. § 160D-936(b)(2) shall only be subject to administrative review and
approval under G.S. § 160D-936(d) if they are collocated outside of city
rights-of-way on property other than single-family residential property.
         (b)   In no instance in an area zoned single-family residential where
the existing utilities are installed underground may a utility pole, public
utility pole, or wireless support structure exceed 40 feet above ground level,
unless the Board of Adjustment grants a waiver or variance approving a taller
utility pole, public utility pole, or wireless support structure.
      (9)   Removal of towers. Towers that are not used for a period of 6
months or more shall be removed by the owner within 180 days after receiving
notice from the county to remove the tower. To assure the removal of towers
that do not meet requirements for use or maintenance, this section serves as
notice that the county may remove said tower and may file a lien collectable as
taxes against the property.
      (10)   Additional requirements for special use permits for
telecommunication towers and equipment:
         (a)   When considering a special use permit request, the Board of
Adjustment shall be required to make a determination of the electromagnetic
field (EMF) effects of the tower on the health of the public.
         (b)   All property owners within a 1,500 foot radius and/or adjoining
the property where the tower is proposed shall be notified, in writing, of the
hearings at which the application will be considered.
         (c)   Special use permits for all towers shall expire unless
documentation, including but not limited to an FCC license, is submitted each
January to the Board of Adjustment indicating that the tower is being utilized.
         (d)   The tower shall meet all other applicable supplementary
requirements.
   (O)   Solar energy systems, large scale (solar farms).
      (1)   Height. Systems, equipment and structures shall not exceed 25 feet
in height when ground-mounted. Excluded from this height requirement, however,
are electric transmission lines and utility poles. Roof-mounted systems shall
not exceed the maximum height for the applicable zoning district.
      (2)   Setback. Ground-mounted solar energy systems as part of a solar
farm shall have a setback for all equipment including fences a minimum of 100
feet from street right-of-ways and 50 feet from other property lines. The Board
of Adjustment may reduce such setback requirement if the proposed or existing
buffer is sufficient to screen the project from view from adjoining properties
or public right-of-ways.
      (3)   Screening and fencing. Systems, equipment and structures shall be
fully enclosed and secured by a fence with a minimum height of 8 feet. A 30-
foot vegetative buffer consisting of a compact evergreen hedge or other type of
evergreen foliage shall be required along the entire perimeter of the facility.
The buffer shall be planted at a minimum of 3 feet tall and reach the height of
at least 8 feet within 3 years and shall be maintained in good condition.
Failure to maintain the buffer shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
Earth-berms, other topographical features and existing wooded areas may be
accepted in lieu of the above requirements, if they conceal the use from public
view and are maintained.
      (4)   Lighting. If lighting is provided at the site, lighting shall be
shielded and downcast such that the light does not spill onto the adjacent
parcel or the night sky. Motion sensor control is preferred.
      (5)   Noise. Noise levels measured at the property line shall not exceed
50 decibels when located adjacent to an existing residence or residential
district.
      (6)   Power transmission lines. To the extent practical, all new power
transmissions lines to any building, structure or utility connection shall be
located underground. Existing above ground utility lines shall be allowed to
remain in their current location.
      (7)   Installation and design. Electric solar system components must have
a UL listing and must be designed with anti-reflective coating(s). Individual
arrays/solar panels shall be designed and located in order to prevent glare
toward any inhabited buildings on adjacent properties as well as adjacent
street rights-of-way.
      (8)   Compliance with Building and Electrical Codes. All solar farms
shall be in conformance with the requirements of the State Building and
Electrical Codes (current addition), the State of North Carolina and Vance
County. All active solar systems shall be inspected by a Vance County Building
Inspector.
      (9)   Inspections. Each solar farm shall be required to have the facility
inspected annually for 3 years following the issuance of the zoning permit to
verify continued compliance with this chapter. Additional inspections
necessitated by complaints or otherwise shall not replace the annual inspection
requirement.
      (10)   Utility notification. No grid tied photovoltaic system shall be
installed until evidence has been given to the Planning and Development
Department that the owner has been approved by the utility company to install
an interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems shall be exempt
from this requirement.
      (11)   Abandonment and decommissioning.
         (a)   It is the responsibility of the solar system owner and landowner
to notify the county and to remove all obsolete or unused systems within 12
months of cessation of operations. Reusable components are to be recycled
whenever possible.
         (b)   A decommissioning plan signed by the party responsible for
decommissioning and the landowner (if different) addressing the following shall
be submitted with the permit application.
            1.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (i.e. end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, etc.)
            2.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, and foundations
            3.   Restoration of property to condition prior to development of
the solar farm.
            4.   The time frame for completion of decommissioning activities.
            5.   Description of any agreement (e.g. lease) with landowner
regarding decommissioning.
            6.   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
            7.   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-2013; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-
2014; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
PARKING, OFF-STREET PARKING, AND LOADING
§ 156.100 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   At the time of the erection of any building, or at the time any principal
building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units,
guestrooms, seats, or floor area, or before conversion from one type of use or
occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space shall be provided in
the amount specified by this Section. Such parking space may be provided in a
parking garage or properly controlled open space.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.101 CERTIFICATION OF MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each application for a zoning permit (except for dwellings) shall include
information as to the location and dimensions of off-street parking and the
means of ingress and egress to such space. This information shall be in
sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to determine whether the
requirements of this subchapter are met.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.102 COMBINATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACE.
   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be combined
in 1 lot, but the required space assigned to the 1 use may not be assigned to
another use, with 1 exception. One-half of the parking space required for
churches whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned
to a use which will be closed at night and on Sundays or in shopping centers
where uses may have different peak hours.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.103 REMOTE PARKING SPACE.
   If the off-street parking space required by this chapter cannot be
reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, such
space may be provided on any land within reasonable distance of the main
entrance to such principal use, provided such land is in the same ownership as
the principal use and in the same zoning zone. Said land shall be used for no
other purposes so long as no other adequate provisions of parking space meeting
the requirements of this chapter have been made for the principal use. In such
cases, the applicant for a permit for the principal use shall submit with their
application for a zoning permit or a certificate of occupancy an instrument
duly executed and acknowledged, which subjects said land to parking use in
connection with the principal use for which it is made available. Such
instrument shall become a permanent record and be attached to the zoning permit
or certificate of occupancy application. In the event such land is ever used
for other than off-street parking space for the principal use to which it is
encumbered and no other off-street parking space meeting the terms of this
chapter is provided for the principal use, the certificate of occupancy or
zoning permit for such principal use shall become void.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.104 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS.
   Where parking lots for more than 5 cars are permitted or required, the
following provisions shall be complied with in addition to the requirements
below:
   (A)   The lot may be used only for parking and not for any type of
commercial use, but shall not preclude convention exhibits or parking of rental
vehicles.
   (B)   All entrances, exits, barricades at sidewalks, and drainage plans
shall be approved and constructed before occupancy.
   (C)   A strip of land 10 feet wide adjoining any street line or any lot
zoned for residential uses shall be reserved as open space, guarded with wheel
bumpers and planted in grass and/or shrubs or trees.
   (D)   Any parking lot of more than 5 cars which is adjacent, along the side
or rear property lines, to property used or zoned for residential uses, shall
be provided with screening as described in §
156.055.
   (E)   Only 1 entrance and 1 exit sign no larger than 2 square feet
prescribing parking regulations may be erected at each entrance or exit.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the property owner to keep the parking area
free of damaging potholes, obstructions, and maintain the overall appearance
and functionality of the parking area in good repair.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.105 MOBILE, MANUFACTURED AND MODULAR HOME AND TRAILER PARKING AND
STORING.
   It shall be unlawful to park or otherwise store for any purpose whatsoever
any manufactured or modular home (see definitions in §
156.015) or trailer within any zone except as follows:
   (A)   At a safe, lawful, and non-obstructive location on a street, alley
highway, or other public place, providing that the trailer or mobile home shall
not be parked overnight;
   (B)   Within a mobile home park, provided, however, the mobile home shall
either have a North Carolina or HUD Label of Compliance permanently attached
thereto; and
   (C)   On any other lot or plot outside of the City of Henderson and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) provided that trailers, as defined in §
156.015, shall be stored in a garage or carport or in the rear or side yard.
   (D)    Junk or dilapidated mobile home/manufactured home storage or repair
yards must obtain a special use permit.
   (E)   Trailers shall include those pulled behind a tractor trailer (18-
wheeler) and for use in transporting vehicles, boats, or freight shall be
parked in a suitable commercial parking area outside of residential areas.
    (F)   In circumstances where a dwelling unit (modular or manufactured) is
either new for installation or being replaced, the replacement unit may be
temporarily stored on the development site for up to (5 days with permission of
the property owner.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.106 VEHICLE STORAGE.
   (A)   Residential, open space, and watershed overlay zones. Only vehicles
intended for personal use (not part of a commercial operation) shall be parked
or stored on any property zoned for residential use (includes residential uses
in the O-S and W-O-Z categories, this provision is not inclusive of the
Agricultural Residential Zone). No storage of commercial inventory whatsoever
shall be permitted and no inoperative and/or unlicensed vehicles shall be
permitted to be parked or stored longer than 14 days, unless said vehicles are
being stored while undergoing repairs and are not part of a commercial
operation prohibited in the residential zone. This section shall further not be
applicable to restoration of antique vehicles. (NOTE: Four or more junk,
inoperable, or unlicensed vehicles constitute a junk yard). Commercial trucks
or vans customarily driven home by employees or owners shall not be affected by
the regulations of this section, this shall include the cab portion (also
called a "semi") of an 18 wheeled truck and trailer combination, customarily
used to transport a large, multi-wheeled trailer (trailers of this type shall
be stored in an appropriate commercial or industrial location). Storage of
junk, inoperable or unlicensed vehicles shall comply with the Vance County
Abandoned Vehicle Ordinance,
Chapter 94 of this Code. This section shall apply to the following zoning
categories as either a residential zone or where a residential use is permitted
(not inclusive of the A-R zone): R-30, R-20, R-10, R-M-H-C, O-S, and W-O-Z.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial zones. Customer and employee parking is
permitted along with the parking and storing of governmental or commercial
vehicles, in any public, commercial, or industrial zone. Inoperative vehicles
shall only be permitted to be parked or stored while undergoing repairs at a
commercial garage or automobile service station or if stored in an approved
junk or wrecking yard (NOTE: Four or more junk, inoperable, or unlicensed
vehicles constitute a junkyard).
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.107 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The number of off-street spaces required by this subchapter shall be
provided on the same lot with the principal use except as provided in §§
156.040 through
156.063 and the required number of off-street parking spaces specified for each
use shall be considered as the absolute minimum. In addition, a developer shall
evaluate their own needs to determine if they are greater than the minimum
specified by this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, an off-street parking
space shall be no less than 160 square feet in area, plus adequate ingress and
egress provided for each off-street parking space.
      (1)   Single family residential uses shall provide parking area for at
least 2 vehicles off the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Multi-family uses shall provide parking spaces for at least 2
vehicles per unit off the public right-of-way in designated park lots.
      (3)   Commercial uses shall provide 1 parking space for each 200 square
feet of gross floor area off the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Industrial uses shall provide 1 parking space for each 500 square
feet of gross floor area off the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is allowed to adjust these parking ratios
when it is deemed necessary and place such reason on the face of the permit
and/or site plan.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.108 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All off-street areas required by this section shall conform to the following
design standards:
   (A)   All parking spaces shall have minimum dimensions of 9 feet in width
and 18 feet in length. All access or backup aisles shall conform to the
following minimum dimensions:
 
Parking Angle Aisle Dimension
90 degrees    24 feet
60 degrees    18 feet
45 degrees    14 feet
30 degrees    12 feet
0 degrees     12 feet
 
   (B)   The use of streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public rights-of-way
for parking or maneuvering to and from off-street parking spaces is prohibited,
except where such maneuvering is necessary in the use of driveways for access
to and from single-family and 2 family dwellings. All off-street parking areas
shall be so arranged that ingress and egress is by forward motion of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Parking area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing, wheel
guards, or other means to prevent vehicular encroachment on a public right-of-
way or on adjacent property, and to protect the public right-of-way and
adjoining properties from the damaging effects from surface drainage from
parking lots. It shall be the duty of the property owner to keep the parking
area free of damaging potholes, obstructions, and maintain the overall
appearance and functionality of the parking area in good repair.
   (D)   Where parking or loading areas are provided adjacent to the public
street, ingress and egress thereto shall be made only through driveways not
exceeding 25 feet in width at the curb line of said street, except where the
Zoning Administrator finds that a greater width is necessary to accommodate the
vehicles customarily using the driveway.
   (E)   Where 2 or more driveways are located on the same lot, other than a
mobile home park, the minimum distance between such drives shall be 30 feet or
1/3 of the lot frontage, whichever is greater; however, this provision shall
not apply to any commercial or industrial planned development. Driveway
locations in such developments shall be approved by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation.
   (F)   Businesses adjacent to, or integrated in, a shopping center or cluster
of commercial facilities shall use the common access with other business
establishments in the center.
   (G)   No driveway shall be located closer than 25 feet to any street
intersection.
   (H)   Any lighting of parking areas shall be shielded so as to cast no light
upon adjacent properties and streets.
   (I)   All applicable ADA (American Disabilities Act) standards shall apply.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.109 OFF-STREET LOADING; PURPOSE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street loading requirements are established in order to ensure the
proper and uniform development of loading areas throughout the county, to
relieve traffic congestion in the streets and to minimize any detrimental
effects of off-street loading areas on adjacent properties. Each application
for a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall include plans and other
information of sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to
determine whether or not the requirements of this subchapter have been met.
Plans for off-street loading areas shall include information as to:
      (1)   The location and dimensions of driveway entrances, access aisles
and loading spaces.
      (2)   The provisions for vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      (3)   The location of sidewalks and curbs.
   (B)   The zoning permit or certificate of occupancy for the construction or
use of any building, structure or land where off-street loading space is
required shall be withheld by the Zoning Administrator until the provisions of
this section have been met. If at any time such compliance ceases, any
certificate of occupancy which shall have been issued for the use of the
property shall immediately become void and of no effect.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.110 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   The off-street loading space required by this section shall be provided for
standing, loading, and unloading operations either inside or outside a
building, on the same lot with the use served, and shall conform to the
following standards:
   (A)   For uses containing a gross floor area of less than 20,000 square
feet, each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 15 feet in
width and 30 feet in length.
   (B)   For uses containing a gross floor area of 20,000 square feet or more,
each off-street loading space shall be 15 feet in width and 45 feet in length
as a minimum.
   (C)   All off-street loading spaces shall have a minimum vertical clearance
of 15 feet.
   (D)   Access aisles or apron spaces shall be of sufficient width to allow
for proper backing and/or turning movements.
   (E)   Required off-street loading areas including drives and access aisles
shall be paved with an all-weather hard surface material.
   (F)   Loading spaces and access ways shall be located in such a way that no
truck or service vehicle using such areas shall block or interfere with the
free, normal movement of other vehicles on a service drive or on any off-street
parking area, public street, aisle or pedestrian way used for general
circulation. In addition, the off-street loading facilities shall be designed
and constructed so that all maneuvering of vehicles for loading and unloading
purposes shall take place entirely within the property lines of the premises.
   (G)   Loading area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing to prevent
encroachment on a public right-of-way or on adjacent property, and to protect
the public right-of-way and adjoining properties from the damaging effects of
surface drainage from off-street loading areas.
   (H)   Any lighting of loading areas shall be shielded so as to cast no light
upon adjacent properties and streets.
   (I)   Any off-street loading areas and access ways adjacent, along the side
or rear property lines, to property used or zoned for residential purposes,
shall be provided with screening meeting the standards described in §
156.055.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.111 MINIMUM OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street loading shall be provided and maintained as specified in the
following:
   (A)   Uses which normally handle large quantities of goods, including but
not limited to industrial plants, wholesale establishments, storage warehouses,
freight terminals, hospitals or sanitariums, and retail sales establishments
shall provide off-street loading facilities in the following amounts:
Gross Floor Area (Min. Square Feet) Number of Spaces
Gross Floor Area (Min. Square Feet) Number of Spaces
5,000 - 20,000             1
20,001 - 50,000            2
50,001 - 80,000            3
80,001 - 125,000           4
125,001 - 170,000          5
170,001 - 215,000          6
215,001 - 260,000          7
For each additional 45,000 1 - additional
 
   (B)   Uses which do not handle large quantities of goods, including but not
limited to office buildings, restaurants, funeral homes, hotels, motels,
apartment buildings, and places of public assembly, shall provide off-street
loading facilities in the following amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area (Min. Square Feet) Number of Spaces
5,000 - 80,000              1
80,001 - 200,000            2
200,001 - 320,000           3
3200,001 - 500,000          4
For each additional 180,000 1 - additional
 
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
VARIANCES
§ 156.120 GENERALLY.
   Where applicable in this section, the State Environmental Management
Commission is under the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources-Division
of Water Quality. For purposes of development that requires a variance for
under the minimum watershed management requirements for the low density option
(see 15A NCAC 2B), this text is appropriate for this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.121 PURPOSE.
    When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter
of this zoning code, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of the provisions
of this chapter upon a showing of all of the following:
   (A)   The unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
   (B)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
   (C)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or the
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
   (D)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.122 AUTHORIZED VARIANCES.
   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to grant variances to the provisions
of this chapter in accordance therewith. No change in permitted uses may be
authorized by variance. Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance,
provided that the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014)
§ 156.123 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)    A person requesting a zoning variance must submit a variance
application to the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee.
Applications shall include the following:     
      (1)   Site plan drawn to an appropriate scale and illustrating property
lines, existing or proposed structures, parking areas and other built upon
areas, surface water drainage (if applicable), and indicates north point.
      (2)   Lists name and address of person who prepared the plan.
      (3)   Lists the date of the plan and date of revisions (if applicable).
      (4)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance.
      (5)   Any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would be
helpful.
      (6)   For purposes of notification to abutting property owners, the
following is required for a variance application:
         (a)   Location of property;
         (b)   General description of the request;
         (c)   Time and date of meeting;
         (d)   Location of meeting;
         (e)    Notification to be sent to adjoining property owners if
applicable and to all other local governments having jurisdiction abutting the
property; this notice shall be sent by the Zoning Administrator by first class
mail.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   The applicant has the burden of proving unnecessary hardship. The
proof must be compelling and reasons for granting the variance must be
substantial. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors also do not qualify. The hardship that the
applicant must prove must be measured against the community's need for strictly
enforced regulations that protect its citizens from dangers and damages from
development and the long-term risk to owners and occupants of the building.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above and the purposes of this chapter, the appeal board may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter. Conditions for variances include:
         (a)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (d)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the requirement and what the
variance specifies. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions.
         (e)    The Zoning Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.124 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
    Although the Board of Adjustment acts in a quasi-judicial capacity, it is
not intended that proceedings before it be conducted as formally as those
before courts. Nevertheless, it is necessary that the rules of procedure and
evidence set forth in this chapter be followed to protect the interests of the
parties and of the public. To this end, the presiding officer or the clerk of
the Board may administer oaths to any witnesses and may make any rulings as are
necessary to preserve fairness, order, or proper decorum in any matter before
the Board of Adjustment. In addition, any member of the Board of Adjustment or
any interested party may object to, and the presiding officer may exclude, any
evidence or testimony or statement which is so incompetent, irrelevant,
immaterial, or unduly repetitious as to fail to reasonably address the issues
before the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.125 EVIDENCE AND TESTIMONY.
   Any interested party (defined as person(s) affected by the variance
application) may be given the opportunity to present evidence or testimony, to
cross-examine witnesses, to inspect documents, and to offer evidence or
testimony in explanation or rebuttal. A person who is interested in the matter
but who does not have a personal stake in the outcome (such as a likely effect
on his or her property value) may attend and observe the hearing, but they have
no legal right to offer evidence, ask questions, or otherwise directly
participate in the matter. The presiding officer (Board of Adjustment Chair or
county staff) may determine whether testimony, oral argument, or cross-
examination must be limited in duration. Any member of the Board of Adjustment
may question any interested party. Persons other than interested parties may
make comments. Such comments must be competent, relevant, and material.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014)
§ 156.126 HEARINGS.
   (A)    The Board of Adjustment must hold a quasi-judicial hearing before
taking action on a zoning variance application.
   (B)   At least 10 working but not more than 25 days before a hearing on a
variance, the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee must post
notice of the hearing on the affected property and send written notice of the
hearing to the applicant, the owner of the affected property, and the owners of
all real property adjoining the affected property (as shown on county tax
listings current when the application is filed).
   (C)   If a requested variance would result in the relaxation of any of the
North Carolina Department of Natural Resources - Division of Water Quality
minimum watershed management requirements (or the Vance County Watershed
Protection Ordinance,
Chapter 154 of this Code), the Planning and Development Director or his/her
designee must, at the same time, send written notice of the hearing to all
other local governments having jurisdiction within the same water supply
watershed.
   (D)   On determining that the application would impact non-adjoining
properties in the neighborhood of the affected site, the Planning and
Development Director or his/her designee may also send written notices to the
owners of those properties, and may require the applicant to submit the
additional materials necessary to provide such notices.
   (E)   Notices to the applicant and the owner of the affected site must be
sent via mail. All other mailed notices must be sent via first-class mail to
those interested parties as applicable.
   (F)   If the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee
determines that an application for a variance would have significant impacts on
properties beyond the neighborhood of the affected site, the Planning and
Development Director or his/her designee must cause notice of the hearing to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or the area of
the affected site. The notice must be published in each of 2 successive
calendar weeks, with the first notice being published between 10 and 25 days
before the hearing date.
   (G)   The Planning and Development Director or his/her designee must make
every reasonable effort to comply with these notice requirements. However,
where the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee has made a
reasonable and good-faith attempt to comply with the requirements for notice to
owners of adjoining properties, no failure to comply with those requirements
must render any decision on the application invalid.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.127 REVIEW AND DECISION.
   (A)   The decision of the Board of Adjustment must include findings of fact
and conclusions of law and must be based upon substantial evidence or testimony
that is competent, relevant, and material. Findings concerning the existence or
nonexistence of crucial facts must be based upon sworn evidence or testimony
unless the party or parties before the Board of Adjustment stipulate the facts
or waive this requirement. Every decision of the Board of Adjustment must also
include the vote, abstention from voting, or absence of each member.
      (1)   Appeals for variances shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator,
who shall transmit all such records to the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time, not to exceed
30 days, for the hearing of the variance.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall post a sign on any property for
which a variance has been requested. The sign shall state the date, time, and a
phone number to call for information on the variance, and shall be posted at
least 10 days, but not more than 25 days prior to the hearing date.
      (4)   The concurring vote of 4/5 of the board shall be necessary to grant
a variance.
      (5)    Each decision of the Board of Adjustment is subject to review by
the Vance County Superior Court. Any appeal to the Superior Court shall be
taken within 30 days after the decision of the Board of Adjustment is filed in
the Office of the Zoning Administrator, or after a written copy of the decision
is delivered to the appellant by mail, or personal service, whichever is later.
   (B)   Additional evidence. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, the Board of Adjustment may require additional evidence, as part of
the initial application and hearing process, or memoranda of authority to be
submitted, and may reserve its decision until such evidence or memoranda have
been submitted and considered.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.128 REQUIRED FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   A variance may not be granted unless the Board of Adjustment makes
findings of fact supporting its conclusions, and concludes, at a minimum, that:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions applying to the land,
building, or use referred to in the application which exists through no fault
of the property owner;
      (2)   The granting of the application is necessary for the preservation
and enjoyment of property rights;
      (3)   The granting of the application will not materially affect
adversely the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the proposed use, and will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property or improvement in such neighborhood;
      (4)   A denial of the application would cause unnecessary hardships to
the landowner;
      (5)   In areas of special flood hazard the Board of Adjustment must
additionally conclude that:
         (a)   No increase in flood levels will result within any designated
floodway during the base flood discharge as a result of granting the variance;
         (b)   A more limited or narrower variance would not provide relief;
         (c)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship (see §
156.121) to the property-owner;
   (B)   NOTE: The Board of Adjustment must make specific findings of fact,
based on evidence introduced, on the following issues, and these findings of
fact must not be inconsistent with the conclusions concerning variances in
areas of special flood hazard:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed use to the
community;
      (5)   The necessity for the use of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations on the same parcel, not
subject to flooding damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters, and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (10)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as wastewater, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014)
§ 156.129 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   In granting zoning variances, the Board of Adjustment is authorized to
impose conditions that secure substantially the objectives of the regulations
of the this chapter or provisions being varied or modified.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.130 VARIATIONS FROM STATE WATERSHED MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
    If the Board of Adjustment grants a variance that would result in the
relaxation, by a factor greater than 10%, of any of the North Carolina
Department of Natural Resources - Division of Water Quality minimum watershed
management requirements (or the Vance County Watershed Protection Ordinance,
Chapter 154 of this Code), the Board of Adjustment’s decision is subject to
review and approval by the State Environmental Management Commission before it
becomes final. In such cases, the Planning and Development Director or his/her
designee must prepare a preliminary record of the variance application, the
evidence submitted to the Board of Adjustment, and the Board of Adjustment’s
findings and decision, and submit it to the State Environmental Management
Commission. If the State Environmental Management Commission approves the
variance as granted by the Board of Adjustment, the Board of Adjustment’s
decision must then be considered final and the variance granted. If the State
Environmental Management Commission approves the variance with conditions
varying from, or in addition to, those imposed by the Board of Adjustment, the
Board of Adjustment must revise its decision to include the varied or added
conditions. If the State Environmental Management Commission denies the
variance, the Board of Adjustment must reverse its decision and deny the
variance.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.131 APPEALS TO SUPERIOR COURT.
    Any interested party (defined as person(s) affected by the variance
application) may seek review of the decision of the Board of Adjustment in
Superior Court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any notice of appeal
to the Superior Court must be taken within 30 days after decision of the Board
of Adjustment is filed in the office of the Zoning Administrator, or after a
written copy thereof is delivered to the person taking the appeal by personal
service or first class mail, whichever is later. The person required to provide
notice shall certify to the local government that proper notice has been made,
and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
SIGNS
§ 156.140 GENERALLY.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the intent of this subchapter is to
recognize that signs serve a legitimate public service, complementing and
supporting trade, tourism and investment within Vance County. The regulations
of this subchapter are intended to establish standards which maximize the
effectiveness of permitted signs while limiting visual distraction to
motorists, preserving property value, and preserving the natural aesthetics of
the county.
   (B)    All signs except those specifically listed in §
156.143 shall be erected, installed, or modified only in accordance with a
valid sign permit issued by the Zoning Administrator. Sign permits shall be
issued in accordance with the zoning permit requirements and procedures of this
chapter. If plans submitted for a zoning, special use, or special use permit
include sign plans in sufficient detail that the Zoning Administrator can
determine whether the proposed sign(s) comply with the provisions of this
subchapter, then issuance of the requested zoning, special use, or special use
permit shall constitute approval of the proposed sign(s).
   (C)   NOTE: In all circumstances, signs must meet all applicable North
Carolina Department of Transportation (NC-DOT) standards and provisions (per
all NC-DOT guidelines) for clear lines of site and placement of signs in NC-DOT
rights of way. Applicants shall comply with all applicable building and zoning
regulations, as necessary, in relation to sign permits.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.141 RESERVED.
§ 156.142 SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All signs, except for those attached flat against the wall of a
building, shall be constructed to withstand minimum wind loads as specified by
the NC State Building Code. Sufficient documentation shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator for review to assure that wind and stress requirements
have been met prior to any permit being issued.
   (B)   All signs shall be installed and maintained in compliance with the
North Carolina State Building Code and the National Electrical Code and shall
have appropriate permits and inspections. Electrical signs and fixtures shall
bear labels of a nationally accepted testing laboratory.
   (C)   All signs shall be maintained in a state of good repair and shall
present a neat, well-kept appearance. The Zoning Administrator or his
authorized representative shall have the authority to order the painting,
repair, alteration or removal of a sign, at the expense of the owner of such
sign, which shall constitute a hazard to safety, health or public welfare by
reasons of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or obsolescence. The existence
of a sign or its support structure with no message display for a period of 180
days shall be justification to declare the sign abandoned and require its
removal.
   (D)   All lights used for the illumination of a sign shall be shielded so
that the light will not shine directly on surrounding areas (inclusive of
residential areas within 300 feet) or create a traffic hazard or distraction to
operators of motor vehicles on the public thoroughfares. The Zoning
Administrator shall have the power to order a change in the illumination of any
sign that becomes a hazard or a nuisance.
   (E)   No illuminated sign, other than professional or occupational signs or
nameplates, on-premises signs, incidental signs, or identification signs shall
be permitted within 100 feet of any residential zoning district. Illuminated
signs other than those listed above which are located within 300 feet of a
residence or residentially zoned district shall not be illuminated between the
hours of 12 midnight and 6:00 a.m., unless said lighting is designed in such as
a manner as to shield the neighboring residence or residentially zoned district
from the illumination.
   (F)    Any sign erected without proper permits or in violation of this
subchapter shall be brought into compliance within 30 days of notification by
the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee or said sign shall be
removed immediately.
   (G)   Any sign that meets the provisions of this chapter, upon its adoption,
and requires a remedy to any deficiency (such as a sign that is damaged and
requires repair), in this instance the owner shall be given written notice by
certified letter return receipt requested by the Zoning Administrator to remedy
the situation. The owner shall have 90 days to remedy or be in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.143 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following listed signs are subject to all placement and dimensional
requirements of this subchapter and shall comply with the North Carolina
Department of Transportation sight distance and road right-of-ways clearances.
The following listed signs shall, however, be exempt from permit and fee
requirements. Exempt signs shall be maintained in good condition and shall not
constitute a hazard to safety, health or public welfare. Exempt signs that are
found to be in violation shall be ordered corrected or removed.
   (A)   Any sign 32 square feet or less in area.
   (B)   Any sign that is required by law or erected at the direction of a
governmental agency.
   (C)   Signs erected to regulate traffic.
   (D)   Any warning signs; utility signs; signs for public use; and no
trespassing, no hunting, or neighborhood watch signs shall contain no
commercial message.
   (E)   Mailboxes, house numbers, nameplates, and building markers not
exceeding 32 square feet in area.
   (F)   Religious symbols at a place of worship or at a church-owned or
operated facility. Such symbols must meet all setbacks and lighting
requirements for signs.
   (G)   Construction signs having a maximum area of 32 square feet and a
maximum height of 8 feet and limited to 1 sign per construction site per road
frontage. Exempt construction signs must be removed within 15 days following
the completion of the project.
   (H)   Real estate signs having a maximum area of 32 square feet and a
maximum height of 8 feet. Real estate signs are limited to one per site or one
per 300 feet of road frontage. Temporary real estate signs associated with the
marketing of a subdivision shall be limited to one sign per subdivision
entrance and 32 square feet in area and 8 feet in height. This type of sign
must be set back a minimum of 2 feet from all exterior property lines of the
subdivision and shall remain clear of the roadway sight distance easement. An
additional directory-type sign of the same dimension, height and setback
requirements may be located within the interior of a subdivision. Real estate
signs must be removed within 30 days following completion of the project or
transaction.
   (I)   Temporary signs shall not be placed more than 30 days prior to the
event, election or grand opening and must be removed within 10 days following
the event, election or grand opening. Such signs are limited to 32 square feet
in area and 8 feet maximum height.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.144 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall not be permitted, erected or maintained within
Vance County's planning and zoning jurisdiction inclusive of the Towns of
Kittrell and Middleburg (not inclusive of the City of Henderson or its
extraterritorial jurisdiction - ETJ).
   (A)   Signs with moving, revolving or rotating parts, optical illusions or
movement or mechanical movements by any description or other apparent movement
achieved by electrical, electronic or mechanical means, except for time,
temperature, date signs; traditional barber poles; and electronically
controlled message signs.
   (B)   Signs with lights or illuminations which flash, move, rotate,
scintillate, blink, flicker, vary in intensity, vary in color or use
intermittent electrical pulsations, except for: time, temperature, date signs;
traditional barber poles; and electronically controlled message signs.
   (C)   Strings of light bulbs used in connection with commercial premises for
commercial purposes other than traditional holiday decorations.
   (D)   Portable signs, including signs painted on or displayed on vehicles or
trailers used to serve primarily as a sign, shall be prohibited except that
portable signs used as temporary signs as defined in §
156.141 and in compliance with §
156.143(I) are permitted.
   (E)   Signs erected, maintained, painted or drawn on any tree, rock or other
natural feature.
   (F)   Signs that are attached to a structure and extend vertically above the
highest portion of the roof of any structure.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to signs that are of an artistic nature
and painted on natural features.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.145 SIGN PLACEMENT, SIZE, HEIGHT, SETBACK, SEPARATION, CLEARANCES/
CONSTRUCTION BY SIGN TYPE.
   (A)   Advertising signs (billboards). All advertising signs (billboards)
located within 660 feet of interstate or federally assisted primary highways
are subject to the standards and permitting requirements of the Outdoor
Advertising Control Act administered by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
      (1)   For advertising signs (billboards) that are off-premise, the
maximum permitted sign area, location, characteristics, and number of off-
premise outdoor advertising signs shall be in accordance with the standards in
this subchapter, the following regulations for such signs shall apply:
         (a)    Permitted only with the issuance of a special use permit.
         (b)   Limited to a maximum size of:
            1.   Four hundred square feet along any U.S. or North Carolina
designated highway.
            2.   Two hundred square feet along all other streets/roads.
         (c)   Be setback a minimum of 50 feet from the public right-of-way, or
any legal private access road.
         (d)   Not exceed 30 feet in height.
         (e)   Have only 1 face per side of the sign. "Double-decker" signs
with signs erected 1 over or above the other and side-by-side signs with signs
erected 1 next to the other are prohibited.
         (f)   Be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any residential zoning district
or residentially developed property, whether within the jurisdictional limits
of the county or not. The distance shall be measured radially from the proposed
sign location to the nearest point of the residential district or property.
         (g)   Shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any other off-premise
outdoor advertising sign, located on the same or on the opposite side of the
street. The distance shall be measured radially from the proposed sign location
to the existing sign location.
         (h)   Shall be a minimum of 100 feet from any existing or proposed
building, off-street parking area, or other building or structure. The distance
shall be measured radially from the proposed sign location to the nearest point
of the building, off-street parking area, or other building or structure.
         (i)   No vegetation in the public right-of-way shall be cut for the
purpose of increasing or permitting visibility to such off-premises outdoor
advertising sign unless approved by the chief engineer of the governmental
authority having jurisdiction over such right-of-way.
         (j)   No outdoor advertising sign (billboard) shall be located in a
required front yard setback.
         (k)   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) shall meet North Carolina
Building Code requirements for wind load and all supports shall be of steel,
aluminum, concrete, or other non-combustible material.
         (l)   No outdoor advertising signs (billboards) shall be erected
closer than 10 feet from any conductor of electricity, and all such signs shall
comply with all requirements of the National Electrical Code with respect to
clearance from overhead electrical conductors.
   (B)   On-premise signs-businesses (freestanding pole/ground mounted on-
premise signs):
      (1)   Maximum height: 35 feet.
      (2)   Maximum sign size: 200 square feet of sign area per adjoining
public road frontage. Maximum sign size is a cumulative total and shall not
exceed 300 square feet in area when multiple displays are used on a single
support.
      (3)   Maximum number of freestanding or ground mounted on-premises signs
per parcel: 1 sign per adjoining public road frontage.
      (4)   Minimum separation from rights-of-way, property lines and
structures: 10 feet.
      (5)   Minimum separation from utility lines shall be in compliance with
the requirements of the utility having jurisdiction.
      (6)   No unfinished surfaces or structures shall be exposed on on-
premises signs.
      (7)   Multiple signs (ground mounted and on the same property) for
businesses: Businesses advertising special sales, special events, and
promotions may display one temporary sign or banner per establishment in
addition to the permitted signs, provided that such sign is not illuminated and
if mounted on a building shall be flush against the building wall. Maximum size
is 18 square feet and such sign may not be is not located within a street
right-of-way or required sight triangle. NOTE: Signs of this nature are exempt
from fees/permitting per §
156.143 (less than 32 square feet in size).
   (C)   Wall signs (including canopy, awning and building facade signs):
      (1)   Maximum area: 1 square foot of sign area per linear foot of
building, canopy or awning per building side. Sign footage permitted per
building side may not be used on any side other than that building side.
      (2)   Minimum guaranteed wall signage area at any individual premises is
32 square feet.
      (3)   The maximum projection of a wall sign shall not exceed 12 inches.
      (4)   The height of a wall sign shall not exceed the height of the
building or canopy facade.
   (D)   Professional or occupational name plates and incidental signs:
      (1)   Maximum sign area: 32 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height: 30 inches if ground mounted, signs in this category
may also be mounted against the structure.
      (3)   Minimum setback from all property lines: 2 feet.
      (4)   Maximum number of signs per business establishment: 1.
   (E)   Identification signs:
      (1)   Maximum sign area: 32 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height: 8 feet.
      (3)   Minimum setback: 10 feet from all property lines.
      (4)   Maximum number of signs per entrance: 1.
   (F)   Menu signs.
      (1)   Maximum sign area: 45 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height if ground mounted: 8 feet.
      (3)   Minimum setback from all property lines: 10 feet.
      (4)   Maximum number of signs per business establishment: 1.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.146 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit signs that were lawful before
the effective date of this subchapter to remain in service. All nonconforming
signs existing on the effective date of this chapter, which do not conform to
the requirements of this subchapter, shall be removed and/or brought into
compliance within 12 months from the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 156.150 GENERALLY.
    The Board of Adjustment is charged with hearing and deciding on special use
permits, variances, and appeals from orders and interpretation of the Planning
and Development Director or his/her designee.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.151 AUTHORITY.
   A Board of Adjustment (Board) is hereby established pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
109. (Note: Conflict of interest rules are stated in G.S. § 160D-109(d) - (e)).
A member of the Board or any other body exercising the functions of the Board
shall not participate in or vote on any quasi judicial matter in a manner that
would violate affected persons’ constitutional rights to an impartial decision
maker. Impermissible conflicts include, but are not limited to, a member having
a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change,
undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in
the outcome of the matter. If an objection is raised to a member’s
participation and that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining
members shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.152 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of 7 members, and initially be
those current members of the Planning Board. As seats become available
thereafter, each Board of Adjustment seat shall be assigned a separate Board of
Commissioners district until all 7 seats shall be so assigned. The Board of
Commission member then currently serving from the designated district shall
have the right to nominate an individual to fill the seat, with the Board of
Commissioners to make the final decision of appointment. In addition to the 7
full time members of the Board of Adjustment, up to 2 at-large alternates may
be appointed and available to serve in a member's absence. Terms of office
shall be for a 3 year period, with the initial Board Member's term being
consistent with their current term on the Planning Board.
   (B)   Additionally should any of the municipalities within the county elect
to allow Vance County to administer this chapter within their jurisdictions,
each of the municipalities shall have the option of nominating 1 additional
alternate member from that jurisdiction that shall be considered a full voting
member for issues within that jurisdiction's boundaries only. These alternate
members are encouraged to voice opinions and recommendations concerning matters
outside of their jurisdiction but shall have no vote on these matters. The
nomination from the municipalities shall not be official without Board of
Commissioner approval.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, determination, or interpretation made by an administrative official
charged with enforcing this chapter.
      (2)   To hear and decide any exceptions which are specifically delegated
to it by this chapter.
      (3)   To determine and vary application of zoning regulations in harmony
with their general purpose and intent and in accordance with general and
specific rules contained herein.
      (4)   To hear and decide appeals for variances from the zoning provisions
of this chapter in cases where special conditions would make strict and literal
interpretation and enforcement of the zoning provisions of this chapter result
in a loss of privileges shared by other properties within the same zoning zone.
      (5)   To interpret zoning maps and pass upon disputed questions of zone
boundary lines and similar questions that may occur in the administration of
this chapter.
      (6)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.153 VOTING.
   (A)   Required vote for approval.  A 4/5 vote of its members shall be
required to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari.
   (B)   Vote of the Chairperson. The Board Chairperson shall vote as any other
Board member.
   (C)   Delay of decision. The Board may, direct that its decision be delayed
to a date and time specific subsequent to the Board's vote on an appeal, not to
exceed 30 days.
   (D)   NOTE: Voting requirements of the Board of Adjustment are established
under G.S. § 160D-406 as referenced): The concurring vote of 4/5 of the board
shall be necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be
required to decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal
made in the nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant
positions on the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-
judicial matter shall not be considered members of the Board for calculation of
the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take
the place of such members.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.154 COURT REVIEW.
   (A)   Appeal to Superior Court. Each decision of the Board shall be subject
to Superior Court review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
   (B)   Timing of appeal.
      (1)   Any petition for review by the Superior Court shall be filed with
the Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the decision by the Board is
filed in the Planning and Development Department; or
      (2)    After a written copy thereof is delivered by first class mail, to
every aggrieved party who has filed a written request for such copy with the
Secretary or Chairperson of the Board at the time of its hearing of the case,
whichever is later.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.155 NOTICE OF HEARING/DECISIONS.
   (A)   Hearing notice. Notice of quasi-judicial hearings shall be mailed to
the person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is subject to the
hearing, to the owner of the property that is subject of the hearing if the
owner did not initiate the hearing, to the owners of all parcels of land
abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing, and to any
other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by this chapter. For the
purpose of this section, properties are "abutting" even if separated by a
street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. In the absence of evidence
to the contrary, the county may rely on the tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at
least 10 days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing.
Within that same time period, the county shall also prominently post a notice
of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent
street or highway right-of-way.
   (B)   Decision notice. The decision of the Board may be delivered by
personal service or first class mail to the aggrieved party. The Board is
authorized to impose reasonable and appropriate conditions upon decisions/
permits that are issued.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.156 OATHS.
   The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the Clerk to the
Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming
before the Board.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014)
§ 156.157 APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals decisions of administrative
officials charged with enforcement of this chapter and may hear appeals arising
out of any other ordinance that regulates land use or development, pursuant to
the following:
   (A)   Appeal eligibility. Any person who has standing under G.S. § 160D-1402
(c) may appeal a decision of the Board. An appeal is taken by filing a notice
of appeal with the County Clerk. The notice of appeal shall state the grounds
for the appeal.
      (1)   The official who made the decision shall give written notice to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who
sought the decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
      (2)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
      (3)   The official who made the decision shall transmit to the Board all
documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which such action appealed
from was taken. The official shall also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant and to the owner of the property that is subject of the appeal if the
appellant is not the owner.
   (B)   Effect of appeal. An appeal of a notice of violation or other
enforcement order stays enforcement of the action appealed from unless the
officer who made the decision certifies to the Board after notice of appeal has
been filed that because of facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property or that because the violation is transitory
in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of this chapter.
In that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a
restraining order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings
are not stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an
expedited hearing of the appeal, and the board shall meet to hear the appeal
within 15 days after such request is filed.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal, not to
exceed 30 days, give due notice of the appeal to the parties, and decide the
appeal within a reasonable time. The Board may reverse or affirm, in whole or
in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination or
interpretation appealed from, and shall make any order, requirement, decision,
determination or interpretation that in the Board's opinion ought to be made
under the circumstances.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.158 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Application. An application for a variance shall be submitted in
writing to the Board by filing a copy of the completed application with the
Zoning Administrator or Planning Director.
   (B)   Procedure. The Board shall:
      (1)   Fix a reasonable time for holding a quasi-judicial hearing on the
variance request;
      (2)   Give notice of the variance request as prescribed in §§
156.120 through
156.131; and
      (3)   Decide the variance request within a reasonable time.
      (4)   Note: The Board shall make findings of fact that the requirements
of §
156.128, have been met by the applicant. The variance requested is the minimum
variance that will make possible the reasonable use of the land, building or
structure. Board shall not, under any circumstances, grant a variance to permit
a use or density not otherwise permitted by this chapter in the zone involved.
Neither the nonconforming use of lands, buildings or structures in the same
zone, nor the permitted use of lands, buildings or structures in other zoning
zones shall be considered as grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   (C)   Granting of variance. A variance may be granted by the Board if
evidence that is presented by the applicant persuades the Board to reach the
following conclusions:
      (1)   There are unnecessary hardships (as defined under §
156.121) that would result from the strict enforcement of this chapter. The
Board may reach this conclusion if it finds that:
         (a)   The unnecessary hardship would result from the strict
application of the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in
the absence of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved.
   (D)   Conditions. In granting a variance, the Board may prescribe such
reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards as will assure the use of
the property to which the variance applies will be compatible with surrounding
properties and will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood.
      (1)   Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   A variance granted subject to a condition shall be permitted only
so long as there is compliance with the condition.
      (3)   If a violation of a variance occurs, the applicant shall have 30
days to correct the violation, otherwise the Enforcement Officer may revoke the
certificate of occupancy.
      (4)   In the event that any such condition is held invalid, for any
reason, such holding shall have the effect of invalidating the variance granted
and shall render the variance null and void.
   (E)   Duration. The variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or for
a specified duration only. Unless otherwise specified, construction or
operation shall be commenced within 12 months of the date of issue.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 156.170 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
    The Board of County Commissioners may, on its own motion, upon
recommendation of the Planning Board, Planning Staff, or upon petition by an
interested person, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the regulations
or zone boundaries established by this chapter. A petition by an interested
person shall be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners through, and
reviewed by, the Planning Board, which shall consider its merit and make a
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners. In no case shall final
action by the Board of County Commissioners be taken on amending, changing,
supplementing, modifying or repealing the regulations or zone boundaries hereby
established until the Board of County Commissioners has held a public hearing.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.171 ACTION BY THE APPLICANT.
   (A)   Initiation of amendments. Proposed changes or amendments to the Vance
County Zoning Map may be initiated by the Board of County Commissioners,
Planning Board, county administration, Board of Adjustment, or by the owner(s),
or his agent, of property within the area proposed to be changed. Any
interested party may initiate proposed amendments to the text of the chapter.
   (B)   Application. An application for any change or amendment shall contain
a description and/or statement of the present and proposed zoning regulation or
zone boundary, and the names and addresses of the owner or owners of the
property involved. Such application shall be filed not later than 3 weeks prior
to the meeting at which the application is to be considered. There must be a
separate application prepared for each parcel of land that has different
ownership.
   (C)   Fees. A nonrefundable fee, according to the schedule posted in the
Planning Department, shall be paid to Vance County for each application for an
amendment, to cover costs of advertising and other administrative expenses
involved.
   (D)   Public hearing notices for changes.
      (1)   Notification procedure for text amendments or changes. A public
hearing shall be set and published no less than 10 days nor more than 25
business days before the date fixed for the public hearing by the Board of
Commissioners in a newspaper of general circulation in Vance County.
      (2)   Notification procedure for rezonings and map amendments. In
addition to the required newspaper notification of zoning changes and
amendments above in division (D)(1) above, rezonings and map amendments require
that adjacent property owners be notified by first class mail. The Planning and
Zoning Department shall cause such mailing to occur. Notice to all adjacent
property owners and newspaper advertisement shall take place no less than 10
days nor more than 25 business days prior to the public hearing. Additionally
notice of the public hearing must be posted on the affected property at least
10 days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   Reapplication for amendment. An application for any rezoning of the
same property or any application for the same amendment to this chapter's text
shall be permitted only once within any 1 year period, unless the application
made is for a different use.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.172 ACTION BY THE PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Every proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal
of this chapter shall be referred to the Planning Board for its recommendation
and report. The Planning Board shall consider and make recommendations to the
Board of Commissioners concerning each proposed zoning amendment. The Planning
Board shall follow policy guidelines for all zoning amendments. A proposed
zoning amendment will not receive favorable recommendation unless:
      (1)   The proposal will place all property similarly situated in the area
in the same category, or in appropriate complementary categories.
      (2)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under the
proposed zone classification would be in the general public interest and not
merely in the interest of an individual or small group.
      (3)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under the
proposed zone classification would be appropriate in the area included in the
proposed change. (When a new zone designation is assigned, any use permitted in
the zone is allowable, so long as it meets zone requirements, and not merely
uses which applicants state that they intend to make of the property involved.)
      (4)   There is convincing demonstration that the character of the
neighborhood will not be materially or adversely affected by any use permitted
in the proposed change.
      (5)   The proposed change is in accord with the county Land Use Plan and
sound planning principles.
   (B)    The Planning Board shall render its decision on any properly filed
petition within 30 days after the introduction of such petition and shall
transmit its recommendation and report, including the reasons for its
determinations, to the Board of County Commissioners and the applicant.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.173 ACTION BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
    Before taking such lawful action, as it may deem advisable to approve or
deny an applicant’s request, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider
the Planning Board’s recommendations on each proposed zoning amendment. If no
recommendation is received from the Planning Board within 30 days after the
Planning Board receives the application, the proposed amendment shall be deemed
to have been a positive recommendation by the Planning Board.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
§ 156.174 WITHDRAWAL OF THE APPLICATION.
   Any application submitted in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter for the purpose of amending the regulations or zone boundaries
established by this chapter may be withdrawn at any time, but fees are
nonrefundable.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 156.175 CONDITIONAL ZONING.
   (A)   There are circumstances in which a general zoning district designation
allowing a use by right would not be appropriate for a particular property even
though the use itself could, if properly planned, be appropriate for the
property consistent with the objectives of this subchapter and adopted land
development plan, comprehensive plan, corridor plans, small area plans, and
other land use policy documents. The rezoning process established in this
section provides for the accommodation of such uses by a reclassification of
property into a conditional district, subject to additional conditions which
ensure compatibility of the proposed use with the use and enjoyment of
neighboring properties. A conditional district allows a particular use or uses
to be established only in accordance with specified standards and conditions
tailored to each individual development project. This is a voluntary rezoning
procedure that is intended for firm development proposals. It is not intended
or suited for securing early zoning for tentative proposals that may not be
undertaken for some time.
   (B)   The review and approval process for conditional district petitions
involves a legislative hearing and legislative decision by the Board of County
Commissioners. The review of conditional district petitions shall be undertaken
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Property may be placed in a conditional district only in response to a
petition by the owners of all the property to be included. A petition for a
conditional district shall include:
      (1)   A master site plan prepared in accordance with §§
156.021 and
156.088 and as required by this section;
      (2)   Written supporting documentation that specifies the actual use or
uses proposed for the property;
      (3)   Proposed rules, regulations, and conditions that, in addition to
all predetermined requirements of this section, will govern the development and
use of the property; and
      (4)   A statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning.
   (D)   Conditional districts, as established in §
156.034 parallel general use zoning districts. Only those land uses (including
uses by right, special uses, and conditional uses) permitted in a general use
zoning district to which a conditional zoning district corresponds shall be
allowed. All requirements of any corresponding general use district and all
other requirements of this section apply to a conditional district except to
the extent that the approved rules, regulations, and conditions included in the
petition for rezoning are more restrictive than the general use district
requirements.
   (E)   Review and approval process. The review and approval of a petition for
a conditional district shall follow the same process as outlined in this
subchapter for a general use rezoning.
      (1)   In the course of evaluating the proposed use, the Planning Board
and/or the Board of County Commissioners may request additional information
deemed appropriate to provide a complete analysis of the proposal.
      (2)   Conditional district decisions are a legislative process subject to
judicial review using the same procedures and standard of review applicable to
general use district zoning decisions.
      (3)   Conditional district decisions shall be made in consideration of
identified relevant adopted land use plans for the area, including, but not
limited to, land development plans, comprehensive plans, strategic plans,
district plans, small area plans, corridor plans, and other land development
policy documents.
   (F)   Conditions to approval. Specific conditions applicable to the
conditional districts may be proposed by the petitioner or the county or its
agencies, but only those conditions mutually approved by the county and the
petitioner may be incorporated into the zoning regulations or permit
requirements.
      (1)   Conditions and site-specific standards imposed in a conditional
district shall be limited to those that address the conformance of the
development and use of the site to county ordinances and an officially adopted
comprehensive or other plan and those that address the impacts reasonably
expected to be generated by the development or use of the site.
      (2)   Any such conditions should relate to the relationship of the
proposed use to surrounding property, proposed support facilities such as
parking areas and driveways, pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems,
screening and buffer areas, the timing of development, street and right-of-way
improvements, water and sewer improvements, storm water drainage, the provision
of open space, and other matters that the Board of County Commissioners may
find appropriate or the petitioner may propose. Such conditions to approval of
the petition may include dedication to the county or state, as appropriate, of
any rights-of-way or easements for streets, water, sewer, or other public
utilities necessary to serve the proposed development.
      (3)   The petitioner shall have a reasonable opportunity to consider and
respond to any such conditions prior to final action by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (4)   If for any reason any condition for approval is found to be illegal
or invalid or if the petitioner should fail to accept any condition following
approval, the approval of the site plan for the district shall be null and void
and of no effect and proceedings shall be instituted by the County to rezone
the property to its previous zoning classification or to another zoning
district.
   (G)   Effect of approval. If a petition for a conditional district is
approved, the development and use of the property shall be governed by the
predetermined ordinance requirements applicable to the district's
classification, the approved site plan or master plan for the district, and any
additional approved rules, regulations, and conditions, all of which shall
constitute the zoning regulations for the approved district and are binding on
the property as an amendment to this section and to the zoning map.
      (1)   If a petition is approved, only those uses and structures indicated
in the approved petition and site plan shall be allowed on the subject
property. A change of location of the structures may be authorized pursuant to
division (I) below provided that such change in building layout does not result
in an increase in the number of structures.
      (2)   Following the approval of the petition for a conditional district,
the subject property shall be identified on the zoning map by the appropriate
district designation. A conditional district shall be identified by the same
designation as the underlying general district preceded by the letters 'CZ'
(for example 'CZ-R10').
      (3)   No permit shall be issued for any development activity within a
conditional district except in accordance with the approved petition and site
plan for the district.
      (4)   Any violation of the approved site plan or any rules, regulations
and conditions for the district shall be treated the same as any other
violation of this section and shall be subject to the same remedies and
penalties as any such violation.
   (H)   Alterations to approval. Except as provided in division (I) below,
changes to an approved petition or to the conditions attached to the approved
petition shall be treated the same as amendments to this section or to the
zoning map and shall be processed in accordance with the procedures in this
section.
      (1)   The Planning Director shall have the delegated authority to approve
an administrative amendment to an approved site plan. The Planning Director
shall have no authority to amend the conditions of approval of a petition. The
standard for approving or denying such a requested change shall be that the
change does not significantly alter the site plan and that the change does not
have a significant impact upon abutting properties. Any decision by the
Planning Director must be in writing stating the grounds for approval or
denial.
      (2)   The Planning Director, however, shall always have the discretion to
decline to exercise the delegated authority either because he is uncertain
about approval of the change pursuant to the standard or because a rezoning
petition for a public hearing and Board of County Commissioners consideration
is deemed appropriate under the circumstances. If the Planning Director
declines to exercise this authority, the applicant may file a rezoning petition
for a public hearing and Board of County Commissioners decision in accordance
with the provisions delineated in this subchapter.
      (3)   Any request for an administrative amendment shall be pursuant to a
written letter, signed by all of the owners of the property, detailing the
requested change. Upon request, the applicant shall provide any additional
information as deemed necessary by the Planning Director. Upon an approval of
an administrative amendment, the applicant shall file a sufficient number of
copies of the revised site plan as deemed necessary by the Planning Director.
      (4)   If the Planning Director denies approval of the requested
administrative amendment, the applicant may file a rezoning petition for a
public hearing and Board of County Commissioner decision in accordance with the
provisions delineated in this subchapter.
   (I)   Review of approved conditional districts. It is intended that property
shall be reclassified to a conditional district only in the event of firm plans
to develop the property. Therefore, no sooner than one year (or two years if a
vested right has been established in accordance with the provisions of §
156.008) after the date of approval of the petition, the Planning Board may
examine the progress made toward developing the property in accordance with the
approved petition and any conditions attached to the approval. If the Planning
Board determines that progress has not been made in accordance with the
approved petition and conditions, the Planning Board shall forward to the Board
of County Commissioners a report which may recommend that the property be
rezoned to its previous zoning classification or to another zoning district.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2023)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)    Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, including violations of any conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or special use
permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by the maximum fine and/or
the maximum imprisonment as authorized by G.S § 14-4 or any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of any
conditions and safeguards established in connection with the grants of
variances or conditional-use permits, shall also subject the offender to a
civil penalty of $100 per day. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within
10 working days after being duly cited for a violation, the county, in a civil
action in the nature of debt, may recover the penalty.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable action.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-3-2011; Am. Ord. 5-3-2021)
CHAPTER 157: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
157.01   Adoption by reference
§ 157.01 PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT.
   The county’s planning and development provisions are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004; Am. Ord. 3-9-2005)
CHAPTER 158: ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Title
   
158.02   Purpose
   
158.03   Authority
   
158.04   Jurisdiction
   
158.05   Application
   
158.06   Administration
   
158.07   Definitions
Roadway Naming Procedures
   
158.20   Names
   
158.21   New names
   
158.22   Application process for new roadway names
   
158.23   Roadway suffixes
   
158.24   Roadway directionals
   
158.25   Renaming procedures and requirements
   
158.26   Notice of roadway name assignment or changes
   
158.27   Installation of roadway signs
Street Numbering and Address Assignment
   
158.40   Rules and guidelines
   
158.41   Guidelines for numbering and renumbering street addresses
   
158.42   Posting of street address numbers
   
158.43   Notice of final address change
Violations and Enforcement
   
158.55   Violations and enforcement
Appeals and Amendments
   
158.65   Appeals
   
158.66   Amendments
§ 158.01 TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as the "Addressing and Road Naming Ordinance
of Vance County, North Carolina," and may be referred to as the "Addressing
Ordinance".
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the safety and welfare of
the general public through the orderly assignment of structure addresses to
facilitate the location of and access to individual dwellings and businesses by
emergency response personnel.
   (B)   This chapter shall establish a uniform system of road naming and
renaming along both public and private roadways to ensure road names are not
phonetically or visually similar or duplicated. It also establishes a uniform
system of addressing and numbering all houses and buildings while establishing
a process for changing existing addresses and roadway names to improve
emergency response to all parts of the county.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S. §§
153A-238, 153A-239.1(a) and 147-54.7, and the police powers of the county to
protect the health, safety and welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.04 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions and regulations provided by this chapter shall apply within
the ordinance- making jurisdiction of Vance County. Enforcement of this chapter
within a municipal jurisdiction shall require an intergovernmental agreement
between said municipality and the County of Vance.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.05 APPLICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) without the written consent of Vance
County to:
   (A)   Name or designate the name of any roadway subject to this chapter;
   (B)   Number or assign a number to any structure in violation of this
chapter; or
   (C)   Erect any roadway name sign, remove, deface, damage, or obscure any
number or sign in the jurisdiction of this chapter.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Vance County Board of Commissioners hereby assigns primary
authority and responsibility for addressing of roadways as directed by the
provisions of this chapter to the Addressing Coordinator. In accordance with
the general direction of the Vance County Commissioners, County Manager and
County GIS Administrator, it shall be the duty of the Addressing Coordinator to
prepare and maintain the address database for the entire county and to assign
new addresses when a new building is built, or for any reason a number is
required. It shall be the duty of the Addressing Coordinator from time to time,
and upon request, to review roadway number assignments, resolve conflicts in
address numbering, reassign numbers or propose any changes which, in his/her
opinion, are necessary for the public safety, welfare and mail delivery. This
includes any authorized staff representative acting on the Coordinator's
behalf, and hereby assigns primary responsibility for all activities necessary
for the implementation, enforcement, interpretation and administration of this
chapter to the Addressing Coordinator.
   (B)   The County GIS Administrator shall maintain the database required for
the implementation of the aforementioned maps. Requests or petitions for
changing street names will be filed with the Addressing Coordinator who will
then transmit such requests to the necessary departments for approval.
   (C)   The Addressing Coordinator in addition to the other responsibilities
set forth herein shall:
      (1)   Keep a record of the date, copy of the notation, and the address to
which the new address was assigned;
      (2)   Ensure that all streets which require naming have street
identification signs, and that all signs are uniform in construction, that all
signs are placed at proper locations and properly installed, and that all signs
that are either destroyed or lost are reinstalled in a timely manner;
      (3)   Compile a database of fiscal addresses for each property or
building in conjunction with the County Tax Department; and
      (4)   Compile the Master Street Address Guide (MSAG) as required for the
E911 Database.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESSING COORDINATOR. The employee of Vance County charged with the
administration of this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
equipment. For the purposes of this chapter, the term "building" may also
include other man-made structures.
   DRIVEWAY. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a
public road, private  road, easement or private right-of-way, giving access
from that public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or private
right-of-way, and leading to a building or use of structure on that lot.
   HOUSE NUMBER. Number assigned to any house, residence, dwelling, business,
warehouse, or other structure or property in a sequential manner.
   MAILING ADDRESS. Designation assigned or used by the U.S. Postal Service for
the purpose of delivery of the U.S. Mail. Mailing address may or may not be
identical to property address.
   MOBILE HOME. A portable manufactured housing unit designed for
transportation on its own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi-
permanent foundation having a measurement of 32 feet or more in length and
eight feet or more in width. As used in this chapter, MOBILE HOME also means a
double-wide mobile home which is two or more portable manufactured housing
units designed for transportation on their own chassis, which connect on site
for placement on a temporary or semi-permanent foundation having a measurement
of 32 feet or more in length and eight feet or more in width.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. The land leased or rented, being used or proposed to be
used by mobile homes occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. Any parcel of ground within a mobile home park designed
for the exclusive use of one mobile home.
   MULTIPLE HOUSING COMPLEX. Any structures built to include more than one
dwelling unit under a single roof to include apartment buildings, condominiums,
townhomes or any other similar construction.
   PRIVATE MOBILE HOME PARK ROAD. Any street, roadway or driveway which serves
two or more mobile homes for residential purposes, and which has not been
dedicated to the public use.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street located on public right-of-way and which meets the
total improvement requirements for a public street as set forth by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation in its publication "Subdivision Roads -
Minimum Construction Standards".
   PRIVATE STREET. A street not maintained by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation which is not intended to become a public street but which shall
be used for access to a particular site, group development or business.
   PROPERTY ADDRESS. The assigned number and roadway name shall serve as the
property address.
   ROADWAY. Any road, street, drive, lane, cart way, tram way, easement, right-
of-way, access  area, thoroughfare, highway, boulevard, or any other corridor
used for or having the potential use as a means of conveyance by a motor
vehicle.
   STATE ROAD NUMBER. The number assigned by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation; also known as the SR number for secondary state maintained
roads.
   STREET/ROAD NAME The official name of any roadway, designated by the Board
of Commissioners or, in the case of public roads, by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation.
   SUFFIX. The identifier following a road name, avenue, boulevard, circle,
court, drive, highway, lane, loop, parkway, place, point, road, run, square,
street, terrace, trace, trail or way.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure less than 32 feet in length
primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation
uses.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. A parcel of land designed and equipped to accommodate
travel trailers.
   VANCE COUNTY MASTER STREET ADDRESS GUIDE (MSAG). A complete list for all
Vance County roadways containing the names, addresses and emergency providers.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
ROADWAY NAMING PROCEDURES
§ 158.20 NAMES.
   The names of roadways currently in place and listed in the current Master
Street Address Guide (MSAG) that are located within the jurisdiction of Vance
County, shall be assigned/changed in accordance with this chapter. A copy of
this chapter and a list of street names shall be forwarded to the Department of
Transportation pursuant to G.S. § 153A-239.1.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.21 NEW NAMES.
   (A)   No new roadways shall be named without review of the Addressing
Coordinator. In the event a roadway name is denied, a written explanation as to
why the name was denied will be provided.
   (B)   Any new name shall not be duplicative or be phonetically similar to
any other name in the Vance County MSAG, including municipalities located
within Vance County.
   (C)   Directional names cannot be part of any name (e.g. Westover Rd or
Northfield Dr are not acceptable).
   (D)   Abbreviations in the name cannot be used except for the following: Mt
for Mount, St for Saint.
   (E)   Name suffixes may not be used as part of a name (e.g. Deer Run Dr or
Eagle Way Ct are not acceptable).
   (F)   Alternate spelling and homonyms (dear and deer) are not acceptable.
Additionally, all names must use the common spelling as found in a standard
dictionary.
   (G)   Names must not contain any punctuation or symbols. Only letters of the
alphabet and blank spaces may be included in names.
   (H)   Names that are numbers must be expressed spelled out and not numeric
(e.g. Second Street is acceptable, not 2nd Street). State and federal highways
numbered are not to be used as names.
   (I)   Roadways shall be required to be named when providing vehicular access
to apartment complexes, mobile home parks, or two or more parcels.
   (J)   Street names, not including the suffix, must be limited to a maximum
of 15 characters.
   (K)   Only one name may be assigned along a continuous roadway. Where
permanent breaks exist, a new name must be assigned to each segment. A
permanent break may consist of, but is not limited to, a river or stream where
continuous access is not available between the two segments without using
another street.
   (L)   The applicant for new roadway names shall be responsible for the sign
costs as established by the county fee schedule. These fees, once paid, are
non-refundable. Roadway signs shall be required at each intersection with
another named roadway and shall be placed in accordance with the latest edition
of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.22 APPLICATION PROCESS FOR NEW ROADWAY NAMES.
   The initial naming of new roadways shall be assigned upon the recordation of
an approved subdivision plat in accordance with the Vance County Subdivision
Ordinance. The following items shall be included on any map submitted for
subdivision approval which creates a new roadway:
   (A)   The name proposed for each roadway identified on the map; and
   (B)   Completed Vance County application for new road name.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.23 ROADWAY SUFFIXES.
   The following name suffixes and their official abbreviations may be used in
the naming of new roadways:
   (A)   AVE = Avenue. Any thoroughfare that is continuous and not limited to a
single subdivision;
   (B)   BLVD = Boulevard. Roadway with a landscaped median dividing the
roadway;
   (C)   CIR = Circle;
   (D)   CT = Court - Dead-end roadway or a roadway terminating in a cul-de-sac
no longer than 600 feet.
   (E)   DR = Drive. For a curving, continuous thoroughfare.
   (F)   HWY = Highway. State, interstate, or federal highway.
   (G)   LN = Lane. A minor roadway;
   (H)   LOOP = Loop. Roadway that loops around and terminated onto itself;
   (I)   PKWY = Parkway. Collector or arterial roadway with a raised median;
   (J)   PL = Place. Permanently dead-end roadway ending in a cul-de-sac, no
longer than 660 feet;
   (K)   PT = Point. Roadway adjacent to a waterway;
   (L)   RD = Road. Any thoroughfare that is continuous and found mainly in the
rural area of any county;
   (M)   RUN = Run. A straight roadway in an undeveloped area;
   (N)   SQ = Square. Central Square set up for centralized development;
   (O)   ST = Street. Any thoroughfare that is continuous and used mainly in
city and town;
   (P)   TER = Terrace. Curvilinear roadway of less than a 1,000 feet;
   (Q)   TRC = Trace. Small community roadway;
   (R)   TRL = Trail. Roadway serving as a collector for one or more local
thoroughfares; and
   (S)   WAY = Way. A curvilinear roadway.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.24 ROADWAY DIRECTIONALS.
   Roadway directionals can be used with the approval of the Addressing
Coordinator based on the following standards:
   (A)   Directions must be placed ahead of the street name in a separate field
separate from the street name (for example, E Smith St).
   (B)   Directionals cannot be used as a suffix or placed after the street
name.
   (C)   Directionals must be used in a complimenting set. If a North
directional is used there must also be a South directional. If an East
directional is used their must be a West directional.
   (D)   The prefix "N" (for North) shall be used for the northern portion of
roadways having the same name.
   (E)   The prefix "S" (for South) shall be used for the southern portion of
roadways having the same name.
   (F)   The prefix "E" (for East) shall be used for the eastern portion of
roadways having the same name.
   (G)   The prefix "W" (for West) shall be used for the western portion of
roadways having the same name.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.25 RENAMING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Property owners who want to have the name of a roadway changed
shall submit a petition to the Addressing Coordinator. The petition shall
comply with this chapter and include the following:
         (a)   Existing roadway name;
         (b)   Proposed new name in accordance with this chapter;
         (c)   Basis why the petitioner is requesting the change;
         (d)   List of all individuals owning property adjacent to the subject
roadway or whose driveway abuts the subject roadway; and
         (e)   Signatures from 75% of those individuals listed in division (A)
(1)(d) above which must encompass 75% of the roadway frontage.
      (2)   Upon receiving a completed petition, the Addressing Coordinator
shall verify the
information submitted in the petition and shall inform the County Manager of
the pending petition and need for Board of Commissioners action pursuant to
G.S. § 153A-239.1 or its replacement, along with a recommendation of the
petition.
   (B)   When renaming a roadway, the following should be taken into
consideration:
      (1)   The county may not change the name of any name given to a roadway
by the Department of Transportation unless the Department of Transportation
agrees to such changes.
      (2)   Any number assigned to a roadway by Department of Transportation
may not be changed, although a roadway name may be assigned in addition to its
DOT Number.
      (3)   Largest impact. In most cases, the roadway with the larger number
of homes, dwellings, or commercial structures along the roadway should have
priority and retain the name in order to minimize the number of people
affected.
      (4)   Oldest roadway. When renaming a roadway which conflicts with this
chapter and between two roadways the impact will be equal, then the roadway
that has been consistently signed for the longest period of time should retain
the name.
      (5)   Historical significance. In some cases, the roadway with a name of
historical significance should retain the disputed name.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.26 NOTICE OF ROADWAY NAME ASSIGNMENT OR CHANGES.
   Upon the assignment or re-assignment of any roadway name, the Addressing
Coordinator shall give notice to all owners and occupants of the abutting
property, to the local postmaster with jurisdiction over the roadway, to the
Board of Transportation, and to any city within five miles of the roadway, and
others as set forth in G.S. § 153A-239.1(a). The Addressing Coordinator shall
also provide notice to any utilities serving the area, and emergency services
agencies serving Vance County.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.27 INSTALLATION OF ROADWAY SIGNS.
   (A)   All road name sign blades shall be a minimum of six-inch vertical
dimension sign with a minimum of four-inch letters. The "blades" shall be made
of reflective green sheeting with the road name in reflective white letters on
both sides. Developers of new major subdivisions as defined by the Vance County
Subdivision Ordinance are permitted to propose and install a reflective blade
with an alternative color as long as it contains white lettering and is
approved by the Addressing Coordinator and the Vance County Planning Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or erect any road
sign that does not comply with the standards set forth in this chapter and
without receiving prior approval from the Addressing Coordinator. It shall be
unlawful for any person to intentionally destroy, mar, or deface any county
road name sign.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
STREET NUMBERING AND ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT
§ 158.40 RULES AND GUIDELINES.
   The rules and guidelines in this section should be followed to facilitate
the orderly assignment of addresses to properties. Properties and structures
must be assigned addresses in a logical, easy to understand manner in order to
help citizens and emergency personnel quickly locate people, places and events.
   (A)   When to assign address numbers. After a new roadway is approved, it
must be assigned an address range and each individual property with a building,
assigned numbers in accordance with the standards defined in this chapter.
Addresses should not be assigned to structures that are simply accessory to
another building or are insubstantial in nature.
   (B)   Street addressing process in Vance County, NC. Address block ranges
will be assigned to roadways shown on approved preliminary plans. Individual
physical addresses must be assigned to structures prior to approval of zoning
permits as required by the Vance County Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.41 GUIDELINES FOR NUMBERING AND RENUMBERING STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Assignment of addresses for new development.
      (1)   Address ranges. All primary structures shall be assigned an address
number that reflects the established addressing formula. No address range in
Vance County shall conflict with another address range in a contiguous
locality. For those rare duplicate street names in the county, the address
range will be different for each street. The range will be assigned
consecutively for all duplicate street names; however, the numbering of the
second street will have a break of a minimum of 1,000 addresses.
      (2)   Addressing interval. Primary structure addresses shall be assigned
consecutively so that a new address is created ideally every 5.28 linear feet.
Addresses will be assigned at the point of access (driveway) or to a structure
point along the front of the structure. If the driveway enters from the side or
rear of the property, the structure shall be addressed on the roadway that the
structure fronts/faces at the approximate middle of the structure.
      (3)   Even and odd numbering. Odd-numbered addresses shall be assigned to
the left in the direction of increase and even numbered addresses shall be
assigned to the right in the direction of the increase.
      (4)   Each unit within a multiple housing unit and mobile homes within
mobile home parks shall be assigned a primary 911 address. Addresses shall be
assigned from internal drives, using even and odd addressing. A mobile home
park owner may assign lot numbers, but the lot number shall not be used in the
address of the lot.
      (5)   Addresses in sequential order. All addresses need to be in
sequential numeric order, always increasing from the point of origin, and
should numerically balance on both sides of the roadway.
      (6)   Addresses will be established as whole numbers and will not have
fractions or decimals of a number.
      (7)   Vacant properties shall, upon request, be assigned addresses during
pre- development for location purposes only, but once zoning approval pursuant
to the Vance County Zoning Ordinance occurs it may have to be readdressed based
on the final layout or plan.
   (B)   Renumbering/readdressing a roadway:
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Addressing Coordinator from time to
time, and upon request, to review address numbers, identify conflicts in number
assignment and make changes which, in their opinion, are necessary or as
follows:
         (a)   Due to conflicts with other addresses;
         (b)   Change in character or density of occupancy of any block;
         (c)   Lack of availability of additional numbers when the need arises;
         (d)   Addresses are determined to be out of sequence creating a
potential public safety concern; or
         (e)   In conjunction with the changing of a roadway name.
      (2)   Upon the request of the Planning Director the Addressing
Coordinator shall review the section of roadway or roadways requested by the
Planning Director.
      (3)   While undertaking any reviews, the Addressing Coordinator will take
into consideration the public's health, safety and general welfare. In the
event an existing address has jeopardized the public's health, safety, or
general welfare by impeding timely emergency response, or in the event an
existing roadway name reasonably could be perceived to jeopardize the public's
health, safety, or general welfare by impeding timely emergency response, the
Addressing Coordinator may make changes.
      (4)   When renumbering/reassigning addresses along a roadway it shall be
done in accordance with §
158.41(A) of this chapter.
      (5)   The Addressing Coordinator shall provide notice to all affected
property owners by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the current
mailing address as listed with the Vance County Tax Office for the affected
parcels of property. Each notice shall include:
         (a)   The prior and new address assigned to the property; and
         (b)   Notice of right to appeal and appeal process.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.42 POSTING OF STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   The owner, occupant or agent of the primary structure shall place or cause
to be placed and maintained upon each primary structure the numbers assigned
under the addressing system as provided in this chapter. The following criteria
must be used to properly display the number:
   (A)   The address numbers shall be placed on the primary structure within 30
days from the date of notification by the Addressing Coordinator after approval
of such assignment as required by this chapter.
   (B)   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on, or at
the side of the proper door of each primary structure addressed so that the
number can be seen plainly from the roadway on which the address is based and
shall be a minimum of four inches in height. Whenever any primary structure is
more than 120 feet from the roadway which the address is based upon, and the
number is not clearly discernible from the roadway right of way, or vision of
the primary structure from the roadways is otherwise obscured, the number
assigned shall be placed on a sign (minimum of six inches by 18 inches)
attached near the walk, driveway or common entrance to such primary structure.
It shall be affixed upon a gatepost, fence, post or other appropriate place so
as to be easily discernible, and to clearly identify the entrance to a
property. Alternatively, numbers can be posted on an individual U.S. mailbox or
U.S. mailbox stand/post for the building if:
      (1)   The U.S. mailbox is distant and separate from any other U.S.
mailbox so as to eliminate confusion as to specific ownership, and;
      (2)   The U.S. mailbox is located along the roadway on which the address
is based, and is adjacent to the driveway or access to the primary structure;
      (3)   The address numbers are affixed to the U.S. mailbox or U.S. mailbox
post/stand in such a manner as to be visible and readable from any and/or all
directions from the roadway which it fronts;
      (4)   The address numbers on the US mailbox or US mailbox post/stand are
no less than three inches in height.
      (5)   Numbers painted or stenciled on the curb shall not be a lawful
substitute for the display of address numbers prescribed by this section.
   (C)   Numbers for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings shall
be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the primary structure
so as to be easily and readily seen facing the roadway nearest the street in
which the building is accessed.
   (D)   All numbers must be made of a durable, clearly visible material and
must contrast with the color of the house, building, or other structure.
Numbers must also be reflective for night time identification.
   (E)   Address numbers should be plain block numeric numbers and not in alpha
print or any type of script writing.
   (F)   The Addressing Coordinator shall be authorized to approve alternate
methods of displaying the address numbers on primary structures that meet the
intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.43 NOTICE OF FINAL ADDRESS CHANGE.
   After all rights to appeal a notice of address change pursuant to this
chapter have expired or been heard, the Addressing Coordinator shall give
notice to the owners and occupants of all affected addresses, the local Postal
Service, to any major utilities serving the addressed area, to any emergency
services agencies such as police, sheriff, fire departments and ambulance
service with jurisdiction over the addressed area.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 158.55 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Owners of real property upon which primary structures are already
constructed will be required to comply with this chapter. Those person(s) who
do not comply with this chapter will be notified and requested, by the
Addressing Coordinator, to meet the requirements within 30 days from the date
of notification. If the owner does not comply voluntarily with this chapter
within 30 days of receiving delivery of the notice by registered or certified
mail or by hand delivery, enforcement action pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123 may be
initiated. A fine of $25 shall be imposed on the property owner for each day
that the address is not posted.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued unless an official address number
has been assigned for a lot.
   (C)   The certificate of occupancy for any structure erected, repaired or
modified after the effective date of this chapter shall be withheld by the
Planning and Development Department until the address is posted on the
structure as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter not specifically
addressed in §
158.55(A), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $50 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, as provided by G.S.
§ 14-4C. Violations of this chapter may also be subject to further civil
remedies as set forth in G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
APPEALS AND AMENDMENTS
§ 158.65 APPEALS.
   Appeals of proposed street renaming/renumbering, individual addressing
number changes or denial of a street name request must be filed with the
Address Coordinator, in writing, within 30 days of written notification of
required owner action. In the event of a denial by the Address Coordinator(s),
individuals affected by proposed changes or denials may file appeal to the
Vance County Board of Commissioners. This final appeal must be filed in writing
within 30 days of the denial with the Address Coordinator(s) and will be placed
on the next available Board of County Commissioner meeting agenda.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 158.66 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the Board of Commissioners. The
Vance County Board of Commissioners may also authorize a variance from these
regulations when in its opinion the interests of the public would best be
served by such variance.
(Ord. 42, passed 5-6-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                            Code Section
1A-1, Rule 65                           92.99
Chapter 7A                              153.24
                                        70.99,
                                        90.054,
                                        90.999,
14-4                                    110.99,
                                        111.99,
                                        151.99,
                                        154.999,
                                        156.999
14-4C                                   158.55
14-4(a)                                 10.99,
                                        71.99
                                        70.99,
14-4(b)                                 71.01,
                                        72.99
14-269(b)                               130.03
15-27.2                                 151.10
20-4.01(23)                             52.01
20-4.01(27dl)                           71.03
20-16                                   50.99
20-50                                   71.01
20-162.1                                72.99
Chapter 29                              156.015
Chapter 42, Article 5                   151.08
47-30                                   154.051,
                                        155.024
47-30.2                                 155.016
58-36-65                                50.99
58-36-70                                50.99
Chapter 67, Articles 1 and 2            90.003
74-46                                   52.01
Chapter 87                              112.02
Chapter 89F                             152.005
105-277.2                               156.005,
                                        156.015
105-277.3                               156.005,
                                        156.015
106-364 - 106-387                       90.003
106-758                                 156.005
110-86(2)                               156.015
Chapter 130, Article 9                  153.05
Chapter 130A                            51.07
Chapter 130A, Article 9                 52.01,
                                        154.010
130A-185(a)                             90.004,
                                        90.005
130A-290                                50.99,
                                        153.05
130A-290(a)(35)                         153.05
130A-290(a)(36)                         153.05
131E-155 et seq.                        110.15
131E-155(a)(6b)                         110.29
131E-157                                110.24
131E-158                                110.23
136-44.14                               155.075
136-66.10                               155.001
136-66.11                               155.001
                                        152.087,
136-102.6                               155.075,
                                        156.015
139-1 et seq.                           10.18
Chapter 143, Article 21                 154.001
Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6         153.01
Chapter 143, Article 21A                52.01
Chapter 143, Article 33C                150.22
Chapter 143, Article 56                 110.23,
                                        110.24
143-215.1                               52.01
143-215.58                              153.23,
                                        153.99
143-215.6A                              154.999
143-318.9 et seq.                       91.19,
                                        152.116
147-54.7                                158.03
Chapter 153A, Article 6                 153.01,
                                        154.001
                                        150.20,
Chapter 153A, Article 18                150.26,
                                        150.27
Chapter 153A, Article 18, Part 2        154.050,
                                        155.003
Chapter 153A, Article 18, Parts 3 and 4 153.01
153A-45                                 71.05,
                                        156.005
153A-46                                 110.03 ,
                                        110.20
153A-49                                 10.19,
                                        10.20
153A-50                                 71.04
                                        151.01,
                                        151.11,
153A-121                                151.13,
                                        152.003,
                                        154.001
153A-121(a)                             151.01
                                        93.04,
153A-122                                112.02,
                                        112.08
                                        111.99,
153A-123                                112.99,
                                        151.14,
                                        151.15
                                        93.20,
153A-123(c)                             110.99,
                                        151.14
153A-123(e)                             151.11
153A-134                                112.01
153A-153                                90.003
153A-170                                72.05,
                                        72.99
153A-238                                158.03
153-239.1                               158.20,
                                        158.25
153A-239.1(a)                           158.03,
                                        158.26
153A-323                                152.116
153A-335                                155.015
153A-344.1                              154.010
153A-437                                91.02
153A-445                                31.01
160A-11                                 10.18
160A-79                                 71.04
160A-175                                10.99
160A-175(c)                             93.20
160A-385.1                              154.010
                                        152.135,
160A-388                                156.081,
                                        156.151,
                                        156.153
160A-492                                31.01
Chapter 160D, Article 7                 156.002
160D-109                                156.151
160D-109(d) - (e)                       156.151
160D-403                                156.021
                                        156.015,
160D-406                                156.081,
                                        156.153
160D-903                                156.005
160D-936(b)(2)                          156.089
160D-936(d)                             156.089
160D-1110                               156.021
160D-1111                               156.021
160D-1402(c)                            156.157
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        12-2-2002   93.21
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
1               7-6-1970    30.01,
                            30.99
2               4-4-1972    94.01 through
                            94.10
                            111.01,
                            111.15 through
6               2-3-1975    111.22,
                            111.35 through
                            111.37,
                            111.99
-               10-15-1975  90.100
8               1-1-1976    70.01,
                            70.99
10              8-1-1977    90.050 through
                            90.054
12              12-5-1977   112.01
                            51.01 through
13              7-3-1978    51.10,
                            51.99
                            91.01,
                            91.02,
15              11-5-1979   91.15 through
                            91.19,
                            91.30 through
                            91.36
-               12-3-1979   90.051,
                            90.053
                            32.01 through
17              4-6-1981    32.12,
                            32.99
                            110.01 through
18              5-4-1981    110.03,
                            110.99
                            130.15 through
19              10-4-1982   130.17,
                            130.99
20              3-7-1983    31.01 through
                            31.10
22              6-27-1985   92.01 through
                            92.08
                            71.01 through
23              9-4-1990    71.05,
                            71.99,
                            72.05
                            52.01,
24              5-1-1993    52.02,
                            52.99
25, § 101      12-6-1993   154.001
25, § 102      12-6-1993   154.002
25, § 103      12-6-1993   154.003
25, § 104      12-6-1993   154.004
25, § 105      12-6-1993   154.005
25, § 106      12-6-1993   154.006
25, § 107      12-6-1993   154.007
25, § 108      12-6-1993   154.008
25, § 109      12-6-1993   154.009
25, § 110      12-6-1993   154.999
25, § 111      12-6-1993   154.999
25, § 112      12-6-1993   154.010
25, § 114      12-6-1993   151.011
25, § 201      12-6-1993   154.030
25, § 202      12-6-1993   154.031
25, § 203      12-6-1993   154.032
25, § 204      12-6-1993   154.033
25, § 205      12-6-1993   154.034
25, § 206      12-6-1993   154.035
25, § 207      12-6-1993   154.036
25, § 208      12-6-1993   154.037
25, § 209      12-6-1993   154.038
25, Art. 300    12-6-1993   154.050
25, § 301      12-6-1993   154.051
25, § 302      12-6-1993   154.052
25, § 303      12-6-1993   154.053
25, § 304      12-6-1993   154.054
25, § 305      12-6-1993   154.055
25, § 401      12-6-1993   154.065
25, § 402      12-6-1993   154.066
25, § 501      12-6-1993   154.080
25, § 502      12-6-1993   154.081
25, § 601      12-6-1993   154.095
25, § 602      12-6-1993   154.096
25, § 603      12-6-1993   154.097
25, § 604      12-6-1993   154.098
25, § 605      12-6-1993   154.099
25, § 606      12-6-1993   154.100
25, § 607      12-6-1993   154.101
25, § 701      12-6-1993   154.010
-               4-3-1995    130.17,
                            130.99
-               8-8-1995    111.50 through
                            111.52
26              12-4-1995   130.01 through
                            130.03
27              2-3-1997    150.20 through
                            150.31
                            90.065 through
28              4-7-1997    90.082,
                            90.999
                            154.010,
                            154.031,
-               9-2-1997    154.032,
                            154.034,
                            154.080
                            112.02 through
12              12-5-1997   112.08,
                            112.99
3, § 1.1       9-14-1998   152.001
3, § 1.2       9-14-1998   152.002
3, § 1.3       9-14-1998   152.003
3, § 1.4       9-14-1998   152.004
3, § 2.1       9-14-1998   152.015
3, § 2.2       9-14-1998   152.016
3, § 2.3       9-14-1998   152.017
3, § 2.4       9-14-1998   152.018
3, § 2.5       9-14-1998   152.019
3, § 2.6       9-14-1998   152.020
3, § 2.7       9-14-1998   152.021
3, § 2.8       9-14-1998   152.999
3, § 2.9       9-14-1998   152.022
3, § 2.10      9-14-1998   152.023
3, § 2.11      9-14-1998   152.024
3, § 2.12      9-14-1998   152.025
3, § 2.13      9-14-1998   152.026
3, § 3.1       9-14-1998   152.040
3, § 4.1       9-14-1998   152.041
3, § 4.2       9-14-1998   152.042
3, § 4.3       9-14-1998   152.043
3, § 4.4       9-14-1998   152.044
3, § 4.5       9-14-1998   152.045
3, § 4.7       9-14-1998   152.046
3, § 4.8       9-14-1998   152.047
3, § 5.1       9-14-1998   152.060
3, § 5.2       9-14-1998   152.061
3, § 5.3       9-14-1998   152.062
3, § 5.4       9-14-1998   152.063
3, § 5.5       9-14-1998   152.064
3, § 5.6       9-14-1998   152.065
3, § 5.7       9-14-1998   152.066
3, § 6.1       9-14-1998   152.080
3, § 6.2       9-14-1998   152.081
3, § 6.3       9-14-1998   152.082
3, § 6.4       9-14-1998   152.083
3, § 6.5       9-14-1998   152.084
3, § 6.6       9-14-1998   152.085
3, § 6.7       9-14-1998   152.086
3, § 6.8       9-14-1998   152.087
3, § 6.9       9-14-1998   152.088
3, § 6.10      9-14-1998   152.089
3, § 6.11      9-14-1998   152.090
3, § 6.12      9-14-1998   152.091
3, § 6.13      9-14-1998   152.092
3, § 6.14      9-14-1998   152.093
3, § 6.15      9-14-1998   152.094
3, § 6.16      9-14-1998   152.095
3, § 6.17      9-14-1998   152.096
3, § 6.18      9-14-1998   152.097
3, § 6.19      9-14-1998   152.098
3, § 6.20      9-14-1998   152.099
3, § 6.21      9-14-1998   152.100
3, § 6.22      9-14-1998   152.101
3, § 7.1.1     9-14-1998   152.115
3, § 7.1.2     9-14-1998   152.116
3, § 7.1.3     9-14-1998   152.117
3, § 7.1.4     9-14-1998   152.118
3, § 7.1.5     9-14-1998   152.119
3, § 7.1.6     9-14-1998   152.120
3, § 7.3       9-14-1998   152.121
3, § 7.4.1     9-14-1998   152.135
3, § 7.4.2     9-14-1998   152.136
3, § 7.4.3     9-14-1998   152.137
3, § 7.4.4     9-14-1998   152.138
3, § 7.4.5     9-14-1998   152.139
3, § 7.4.6     9-14-1998   152.140
3, § 7.4.7     9-14-1998   152.141
3, § 7.4.8     9-14-1998   152.142
3, Art. 8       9-14-1998   152.005
-               12-7-1998   90.083
                            50.01,
30              3-8-1999    50.02,
                            50.99
                            72.01 through
32              6-4-2001    72.05,
                            72.99
2               1-7-2002    94.30 through
                            94.38
33, § 1        2-4-2002    151.01
33, § 2        2-4-2002    151.02
33, § 3        2-4-2002    151.03
33, § 4        2-4-2002    151.04
33, § 5        2-4-2002    151.05
33, § 8        2-4-2002    151.06
33, § 9        2-4-2002    151.07
33, § 11       2-4-2002    151.08
33, § 12       2-4-2002    151.09
33, § 13       2-4-2002    151.10
33, § 14       2-4-2002    151.11
33, § 15       2-4-2002    151.12
33, § 16       2-4-2002    151.13
33, § 17       2-4-2002    151.14
33, § 18       2-4-2002    151.15
33, § 20       2-4-2002    151.16
33, § 21       2-4-2002    151.17
33, § 21       2-4-2002    151.99
33, § 23       2-4-2002    151.18
                            93.01 through
34              12-2-2002   93.05,
                            93.15 through
                            93.20
-               6-7-2004    157.01
-, § 101       6-7-2004    155.001
-, § 102       6-7-2004    155.002
-, § 103       6-7-2004    155.003
-, § 104       6-7-2004    155.004
-, § 201       6-7-2004    155.015
-, § 202       6-7-2004    155.016
-, § 203       6-7-2004    155.017
-, § 204       6-7-2004    155.018
-, § 205       6-7-2004    155.019
-, § 206       6-7-2004    155.020
-, § 207       6-7-2004    155.021
-, § 208       6-7-2004    155.022
-, § 209       6-7-2004    155.023
-, § 210       6-7-2004    155.024
-, § 211       6-7-2004    155.025
-, § 213       6-7-2004    155.026
-, § 214       6-7-2004    155.027
-, § 216       6-7-2004    155.028
-, § 301       6-7-2004    155.040
-, § 302       6-7-2004    155.041
-, § 303       6-7-2004    155.042
-, § 304       6-7-2004    155.043
-, § 305       6-7-2004    155.044
-, § 306       6-7-2004    155.045
-, § 307       6-7-2004    155.046
-, § 308       6-7-2004    155.047
-, § 309       6-7-2004    155.048
-, § 310       6-7-2004    155.049
-, § 312       6-7-2004    155.050
-, § 313       6-7-2004    155.065
-, § 313.1     6-7-2004    155.066
-, § 313.2     6-7-2004    155.067
-, § 313.3     6-7-2004    155.068
-, § 313.4     6-7-2004    155.069
-, § 313.5     6-7-2004    155.070
-, § 313.6     6-7-2004    155.071
-, § 313.7     6-7-2004    155.072
-, § 313.8.9   6-7-2004    155.073
-, § 313.10    6-7-2004    155.074
-, § 313.11    6-7-2004    155.075
-, § 401       6-7-2004    155.090
-, § 402       6-7-2004    155.091
-, § 403       6-7-2004    155.092
-, § 404       6-7-2004    155.093
-, § 405       6-7-2004    155.094
-, § 406       6-7-2004    155.095
-, § 407       6-7-2004    155.096
-, § 408       6-7-2004    155.097
-, § 409       6-7-2004    155.098
-, § 410       6-7-2004    155.099
-, § 411       6-7-2004    155.100
-, § 412       6-7-2004    155.101
-, § 413       6-7-2004    155.102
-, § 414       6-7-2004    155.103
-, § 415       6-7-2004    155.104
-, § 416       6-7-2004    155.105
-, § 417       6-7-2004    155.106
-, § 418       6-7-2004    155.107
-, § 419       6-7-2004    155.108
-, § 420       6-7-2004    155.109
-, § 421       6-7-2004    155.110
-, § 422       6-7-2004    155.111
-, § 501       6-7-2004    155.125
-, § 502       6-7-2004    155.126
-, § 503       6-7-2004    155.127
-, § 504       6-7-2004    155.128
-, § 505       6-7-2004    155.129
-, § 506       6-7-2004    155.130
-, § 507       6-7-2004    155.131
-, § 601       6-7-2004    155.145
-, § 701       6-7-2004    155.160
-, § 702       6-7-2004    155.161
-               3-9-2005    157.01
                            110.15 through
                            110.22,
35              3-14-2005   110.24 through
                            110.31,
                            110.99
                            50.01,
30              10-3-2005   50.02,
                            50.99
29, Art. 1, § A4-2-2007    153.01
29, Art. 1, § B4-2-2007    153.02
29, Art. 1, § C4-2-2007    153.03
29, Art. 1, § D4-2-2007    153.04
29, Art. 2      4-2-2007    153.05
29, Art. 3, § A4-2-2007    153.06
29, Art. 3, § B4-2-2007    153.07
29, Art. 3, § C4-2-2007    153.08
29, Art. 3, § D4-2-2007    153.09
29, Art. 3, § E4-2-2007    153.10
29, Art. 3, § F4-2-2007    153.11
29, Art. 3, § G4-2-2007    153.12
29, Art. 3, § H4-2-2007    153.99
29, Art. 4, § A4-2-2007    153.20
29, Art. 4, § B4-2-2007    153.21
29, Art. 4, § C4-2-2007    153.22
29, Art. 4, § D4-2-2007    153.23
29, Art. 4, § E4-2-2007    153.24
29, Art. 5, § A4-2-2007    153.35
29, Art. 5, § B4-2-2007    153.36
29, Art. 5, § C4-2-2007    153.38
29, Art. 5, § D4-2-2007    153.39
29, Art. 5, § E4-2-2007    153.40
29, Art. 5, § F4-2-2007    153.41
                            156.001 through
                            156.009,
                            156.015,
                            156.020,
                            156.021,
                            156.030 through
                            156.033,
                            156.040 through
                            156.063,
                            156.070 through
                            156.075,
                            156.080 through
39              10-3-2011   156.089,
                            156.100 through
                            156.111,
                            156.120 through
                            156.131,
                            156.140 ,
                            156.142 through
                            156.146,
                            156.150 through
                            156.158,
                            156.170 through
                            156.174,
                            156.999
-               1-7-2013    156.015,
                            156.032
                            156.015,
-               1-7-2013    156.033,
                            156.052
-               2-4-2013    156.033,
                            156.089
-               4-8-2013    153.05,
                            153.07
                            156.005,
                            156.008,
                            156.015,
                            156.082,
                            156.089,
                            156.121,
-               12-1-2014   156.122,
                            156.125 through
                            156.128,
                            156.131,
                            156.153,
                            156.155 through
                            156.158
                            90.001 through
16              3-2-2015    90.017,
                            90.999
-               7-6-2015    156.083
-               9-8-2015    156.089
-               3-6-2017    156.015,
                            156.033
-               3-6-2017    156.033
-               3-6-2017    156.032
-               7-2-2018    155.015
-               7-2-2018    156.005
-               7-2-2018    156.051
                            95.01 through
41              1-17-2019   95.11,
                            95.99
-               3-11-219    156.015,
                            156.033
                            158.01 through
                            158.07,
                            158.20 through
                            158.27,
42              5-6-2019    158.40 through
                            158.43,
                            158.55,
                            158.65.
                            158.66
-               5-6-2019    156.051
                            153.04,
                            153.05,
                            153.07,
                            153.20,
                            153.21,
-               10-7-2019   153.23,
                            153.35,
                            153.36,
                            153.42,
                            153.98,
                            153.99
                            156.015,
-               10-7-2019   156.033,
                            156.089
-               1-6-2020    156.032
                            90.001 through
                            90.007,
                            90.009 through
                            90.014,
                            90.017,
                            90.067,
-               8-19-2020   90.069 through
                            90.072,
                            90.074,
                            90.075,
                            90.078,
                            90.081,
                            90.082,
                            90.999
-               12-7-2020   110.15 through
                            110.31
                            156.002,
                            156.005,
                            156.008,
                            156.009,
                            156.015,
                            156.021,
                            156.030,
                            156.033,
                            156.072,
                            156.073,
                            156.080 through
                            156.089,
                            156.105,
                            156.121,
                            156.123,
                            156.124,
-               5-3-2021    156.126,
                            156.127,
                            156.130,
                            156.131,
                            156.140,
                            156.142,
                            156.145,
                            156.150,
                            156.151,
                            156.153 through
                            156.155,
                            156.157,
                            156.158,
                            156.170,
                            156.172,
                            156.173,
                            156.999
-               1-9-2023    156.034,
                            156.175
                           
 
