VARNAMTOWN, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation adopted through Ord. 2022-01, passed 10-10-2022
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2023 Acts, Pamphlet #6
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Mayor            Gary Ross Galloway, Jr.
Mayor Pro-Tem    Sylvia Galloway
Alderwoman       Tammie Galloway
Alderwoman       Jan Hickman
Alderwoman       Kristie Coble
Alderman         Randy Stevenson
Town Clerk       Cassandra Parrish
Finance Director Casandra Parrish
 
TOWN CHARTER
   Chapter
   
I.   Incorporation
   
II.   Boundaries
   
III.   Governing Body
   
IV.   Elections
   
V.   Administration
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
1987 SESSION
RATIFIED BILL
CHAPTER 1003
HOUSE BILL 2212
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE IN THE TOWN OF VARNAMTOWN; SUBJECT TO A REFERENDUM
   The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   Section 1. A charter is enacted for the Town of Varnamtown to read:
CHARTER
FOR THE TOWN OF VARNAMTOWN, NORTH CAROLINA
CHAPTER I INCORPORATION
Section 1.1
   The Town of Varnamtown, in the County of Brunswick, of the State of North
Carolina is hereby incorporated to be known as the Town of Varnamtown and is
invested with all the powers, rights, privileges and immunities conferred and
imposed on cities by the general law of North Carolina.
CHAPTER II BOUNDARIES
Section 2.1
   Until modified in accordance with law, the boundaries of the town are as
follows: Beginning at Stanbury bridge on center line of state road #1119;
thence south along the center line of state road #1119 to the intersection of
state roads #1119 and #1120; thence westerly along the center line of state
road #1120 to a point that intersects the north and south line on the west side
of Bobby Caison’s tract of land; thence southerly along Bobby Caison’s line to
Cecil Holden’s northern boundary line; thence easterly along Cecil Holden’s and
Wilbur Holden’s northern lines to the northern boundary line of Lockwood Folly
Golf Links; thence along the Lockwood Folly Golf Links northern line to
Lockwood Folly River; thence northerly along the contour of the old river to a
point that divides Riverside #1 from Riverside #2; thence along the northern
boundary line of Riverside #1 to Wilson Lancaster’s line; thence along Wilson
Lancaster’s northern line to Ennis Swain’s eastern line; thence along Ennis
Swain’s eastern line to Joe Singletary’s northwest corner; thence due west to
John T. Galloway’s eastern, north -south line; thence along Ennis Swain’s, John
T. Galloway’s, Mary Galloway’s, Curtis Cumbee’s lines to the northern right-of-
way line of state road #1122; thence westerly along the northern right-of-way
line of state road #1122 to Arthur Thompson’s southeast corner; thence along
the Ennis Swain and Arthur Thompson line to the center of Stanbury Creek;
thence westerly along the center of Stanbury Creek to the point of beginning at
Stanbury bridge.
CHAPTER III GOVERNING BODY
Section 3.1
   The governing body of the Town of Varnamtown is the Board of Aldermen, which
has five members, and the Mayor.
Section 3.2 Manner of electing town officials.
   The qualified voters of the entire town elect the members of the Board of
Aldermen and the Mayor.
Section 3.3 Term of Office of Board members.
   At the regular municipal election in 1989, the two candidates for Town
Aldermen receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected for a term of
four years, and the three candidates receiving the next highest number of votes
shall be elected for a term of two years. In the municipal election of 1991 and
bienially thereafter, all town Aldermen shall be elected for a term of four
years as their terms expire. Municipal elections for Varnamtown shall be held
in accordance with the general law.
Section 3.4 Election of Mayor: Term of Office.
   In 1989 and biennially thereafter, the qualified voters of the entire town
elect the Mayor, for a two-year term of office.
CHAPTER IV ELECTIONS
Section 4.1
   Town officers shall be elected on a non-partisan basis and the results
determined by a plurality as proved in G.S. 163-292.
CHAPTER V ADMINISTRATION
Section 5.1
   The Town of Varnamtown will operate under the mayor-council plan as provided
in Part 3 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
Section 5.2
   All Aldermen and the Mayor, from the date of incorporation to the regular
election of town officers in 1989 shall receive no salary for their services.
Thereafter, elected officers of the Town may only receive a salary if the
question on such compensation is submitted to a referendum which receives the
affirmative vote of sixty percent (60%) of those voting on that question.
Section 5.3
   Notwithstanding G.S. 160A-209, the property tax rate may not exceed ten
cents (10¢) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) appraised value of property
subject to taxation, until modified by any election held under G.S. 160A-209
(e), G.S. 160A-209(f), or under Chapter 159 of the General Statutes.”
 
   Sec. 2.   Until the organizational meeting after the 1989 municipal
election, Tracie Varnum shall be Mayor, and George Ennis Swain, Marion Davis,
John David Dawson, Roger Robinson and Ada McDonald shall constitute the Board
of Aldermen.
   Sec. 3.   Interim budget. The Board of Aldermen may adopt a budget ordinance
for the 1988-89 fiscal year, following their qualification for office, without
having to comply with the budget preparation and adoption timetable set out in
the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act. For the budget adopted for
fiscal year 1988-89, property taxes may be paid at par within 90 days of
adoption of the budget ordinance, and thereafter according to the schedule in
G.S. 105-360 as if the taxes had been due on September 1, 1988.
   Sec. 4.   (a)   The Brunswick County Board of Elections shall conduct an
election on September 20, 1988, for the purpose of submission to the qualified
voters of the area described in Section 2.1 of the Charter of Varnamtown, the
question of whether or not such area shall be incorporated as Varnamtown.
Registration for the election shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. 163-
288.2.
         (b)   In the election, the question on the ballot shall be:
            “[ ] FOR Incorporation of Varnamtown
            [ ] AGAINST Incorporation of Varnamtown”.
   Sec. 5.   In such election, if a majority of the votes cast are not cast
“FOR Incorporation of Varnamtown”, then Sections 1 through 3 of this act shall
have no force and effect.
   Sec. 6.   In such election, if a majority of the votes cast shall be cast
“FOR Incorporation of Varnamtown” then Sections 1 through 3 of this act shall
become effective on the date that the Brunswick County Board of Elections
determines the result of the election.
   Sec. 7.   This act is effective upon ratification.
      In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 28th day
of June, 1988.
            _________________________
            Robert B. Jordan III
            President of the Senate
            _________________________
            Liston B. Ramsey
            Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Varnamtown shall be
designated as the Code of Varnamtown, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This town code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Brunswick County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Varnamtown, in the County of Brunswick, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this town for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the passage date of the original
ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed following the text of the
code section.
Example: (Ord. passed 5-13-1960; Ord. passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.) (Ord. passed 1-17-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This town shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or
prescribing salaries for town officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit, or
other right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing, or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed, or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and/or
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   And all such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of
Aldermen.
      (2)   A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of Aldermen during the
period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the code.
      (3)   The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [i.e.,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivision;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles of sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections       through      ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, if any person shall violate
any provision of this code of ordinances, that person shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
[Reserved]
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
71.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen have declared the area described below as a no
parking zone for all vehicles along the Fisherman Road segment of S.R. 1123.
   (B)   The area beginning at the entrance to the town’s boat ramp parking
area, located along the south side of Fisherman Road, and extending to the high
water mark, is a no parking zone. This zone covers both the north and south
sides of Fisherman Road, within the defined area. The area at the entrance to
the boat ramp, being defined by sign and marked pavement, is a no parking zone
for all vehicles except fire and rescue vehicles and is a tow zone.
   (C)   This schedule is subject to enforcement by the state’s Department of
Transportation and county law enforcement agencies.
(Ord. passed 10-10-1994; Ord. passed 10-15-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
71.01   Purpose, disclaimer, and assumption of risk
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Rules and regulations for operation and enforcement
§ 71.01 PURPOSE, DISCLAIMER, AND ASSUMPTION OF RISK.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish a golf cart
chapter within the Town of Varnamtown to promote the health, safety and welfare
of persons operating cart(s) within the Town of Varnamtown and to protect the
safety of their passengers and other users of the roads.
   (B)   Disclaimer. Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on
the public streets and the town in no way advocates or endorses their operation
on public streets or roads. The town, by regulating this operation, is
addressing obvious safety issues, and adoption of this chapter is not to be
relied upon as determination that operation on public streets is safe or
advisable if done in accordance with §
71.03. The town has no liability under any theory of liability and the town
assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on the public
streets and roads under the special legislation granted by the state
legislature.
   (C)   Assumption of risk. Any person who owns, operates or rides upon a golf
cart on a public street, road or highway within the Town of Varnamtown does so
at their own risk and peril, and assumes all liability resulting from the
operation of the golf cart and must be observant of and attentive to the safety
of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists,
bicyclists and pedestrians.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2021)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISQUALIFIED VEHICLES. Golf carts which have been modified so that they no
longer meet the definition of a golf cart and ATVs may not be defined as a golf
cart nor shall they be operated on the highways within the Town of Varnamtown.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see G.S. § 20-4.01(12b)
§ 71.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. All persons operating a golf cart within the
Varnamtown town limits shall comply with all laws and regulations for motor
vehicles operated on highways in the State of N.C.
   (B)   Enforcement. It is the intention of the town and it is hereby ordained
that the provisions of this chapter shall become and be made a part of the Code
of Ordinances for the Town of Varnamtown; and to accomplish such intention,
sections of this chapter may be renumbered, captions added, sections retitled,
section references corrected and repealed provisions deleted.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   LEISURE ACTIVITIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   County Animal Control Ordinance adopted by reference
   
Appendix A:   County Animal Control
§ 90.01 COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town, to the extent permitted by law, adopts, enacts, and incorporates
fully the County Animal Control Ordinance passed June 18, 2012, including as
same may be amended from time to time. The County Animal Control Ordinance is
set out in full in Appendix A to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2008)
APPENDIX A: COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE I
AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1
AUTHORITY. This ordinance is established pursuant to the following grants of
statutory authority:
   (A)   North Carolina General Statute 153A-121 which delegates to counties
the power to regulate by ordinance, acts, omissions, or conditions detrimental
to the health, safety or welfare of their citizens and the peace and dignity of
the county.
   (B)   North Carolina General Statute 153A-123, which authorizes counties to
levy fines and penalties for violation of their ordinances and allows counties
to secure injunction and abatement orders to further insure compliance with
their ordinances.
   (C)   North Carolina General Statute 153A-127 which authorizes counties to
define and prohibit the abuse of animals.
   (D)   North Carolina General Statute 153A-131 which authorizes counties to
regulate, restrict or prohibit the possession or harboring of animals which are
dangerous to persons or property.
   (E)   North Carolina General Statute 153A-422 which authorizes counties to
establish, equip, operate and maintain animal shelters.
   (F)   North Carolina General Statute 130A-192 which authorizes Animal
Control Officers to determine if there are any dogs and cats not wearing valid
rabies vaccination tags.
   (G)   North Carolina General Statute 67 which authorizes Health Directors to
declare a dog potentially dangerous.
   (H)   North Carolina General Statute 14-4 which makes it a misdemeanor,
unless otherwise specified, if any person shall be found guilty of violating an
ordinance of the county.
SECTION 2
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE. This ordinance is established for the following purposes
and objectives:
   (A)   ANIMAL CRUELTY: To define and prohibit the abuse of animals;
   (B)   RABIES: To protect citizens and animals of Brunswick County from
rabies transmitted by unconfined, uncontrolled, or unimmunized dogs or cats;
   (C)   ANIMALS AT LARGE: To regulate, restrict or prohibit the running at
large of any domestic animals;
   (D)   STRAY ANIMALS: To regulate, restrict or prohibit the keeping of stray
domestic animals;
   (E)   ANIMAL NUISANCE: To regulate animals that may be nuisance;
   (F)   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS, POISONOUS REPTILES AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS: To
regulate, restrict or prohibit the harboring or keeping or ownership of, wild
or exotic animals, poisonous reptiles and dangerous animals;
   (G)   ANIMAL BITES: To establish rules and procedures for dealing with
animal bites;
   (H)   IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS: To regulate the impoundment and confinement of
animals;
   (I)   REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS: To regulate and establish procedures
and fees for redeeming impounded animals in the County’s Animal Shelter; and
   (J)   DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS: To regulate and establish procedures for
destroying diseased, strayed, unwanted or unclaimed animals.
SECTION 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS. The following general provisions shall apply to this
Ordinance:
   (A)   ANIMAL SERVICES. Authority is hereby granted to Animal Services to
enforce this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be enforced by all Animal Services
Officers (as defined in Section 3(C)), having all rights, powers and immunities
granted in Section 3(a)(1)-(13). All employees of Animal Services are hereby
granted the following rights, powers, and immunities and said employees,
through Animal Services shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility, along with law enforcement agencies to
enforce all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances of Brunswick County
pertaining to animals and shall cooperate with all law enforcement officers
within Brunswick County in fulfilling this duty;
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances
of Brunswick County pertaining to rabies control;
      (3)   Be responsible for the investigation of all reported animal bites,
for the quarantine of any dog or cat having or suspected of having rabies for a
period of not less than ten (10) days, and for reporting to the local Health
Director as soon as practicable the occurrence of any such animal bite and the
condition of any quarantined animal;
      (4)   Be responsible for the operation of the animal shelter;
      (5)   Be responsible for the seizure and impoundment, when necessary, of
any animal of Brunswick County involved in a violation of this or any other
ordinance or state law;
      (6)   Investigate cruelty or abuse of animals and protect animals from
cruelty or abuse;
      (7)   Be empowered to seize animals pursuant to North Carolina General
Statute 19A-46, or with the consent of an owner or occupant of the property, or
as evidence if the animals are in “plain view”, or by criminal or
administrative search warrant if the animals are being cruelly treated or
abused;
      (8)   Make canvasses of homes and businesses in the county as necessary
for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with this ordinance or state
statute;
      (9)   Keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of
seizures, impoundments, and disposition of animals coming into the custody of
Animal Services, bite cases, violations, complaints, investigations, and monies
collected;
      (10)   Be empowered to issue Notices of Violation and assess civil
penalties for violations of this Ordinance;
      (11)   Be empowered to go in the yard of animal owners to inspect the
condition of animals;
      (12)   Be empowered to make inspections of buildings or dwellings with
the consent of the owner or occupant, or by administrative search warrant, or
criminal search warrant when there is reasonable cause to believe that this
Ordinance or state law is being violated; and
      (13)   Be empowered to go upon private property to seize animals pursuant
to the provisions of this Ordinance or Court Order.
   (B)   ANIMAL SERVICES DIRECTOR. The Animal Services Director shall be the
Chief Animal Services Officer, be in charge of Animal Services, and supervise
the Brunswick County Animal Shelter. The Animal Services Director shall have
the authority to delegate to his Animal Services Officers or Administrative
Staff any of the powers granted him by this Ordinance. Any act done by an
Animal Services Officer or a member of the Administrative Staff that is in
compliance with or within the scope of this Ordinance, shall be considered the
official act of the Animal Services Director.
   (C)   ANIMAL SERVICES OFFICER. All persons employed by the Animal Services
Department shall be considered Animal Services Officers and shall have all
rights, powers, and immunities granted under this Ordinance and by the general
laws of this state to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance and the General
Statutes of North Carolina as they relate to animal control and animal welfare.
All Animal Services Officers are hereby appointed Animal Cruelty Investigators.
ARTICLE II
RABIES CONTROL
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS. As used in this Article the following terms are defined below:
   (A)   BITE: The act of an animal seizing flesh with its teeth or jaws so as
to tear, pierce or injure the flesh.
   (B)   CATS: Any and all domestic felines.
   (C)   CONFINEMENT: Impoundment within the county’s Animal Shelter or other
appropriate facility.
   (D)   DOGS: Any and all domestic canines.
   (E)   OWNER: Any person, groups of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of or taking care of an animal or allowing an
animal to remain on its property for more than seventy two (72) hours.
   (F)   RABIES VACCINATOR: A person appointed and certified to administer
rabies vaccine or a licensed veterinarian.
   (G)   RABIES VACCINE: An animal rabies vaccine approved by the United States
Department of Agriculture for use in this State.
   (H)   RESTRAINT: A secure enclosure, chain, leash or other physical device
of sufficient strength which allows the owner to maintain direct control of an
animal.
   (I)   VACCINATION: The administration of rabies vaccine by a licensed
veterinarian or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
SECTION 2
VACCINATION FOR RABIES. Owners of dogs and cats shall comply with the
provisions of this Section.
   (A)   VACCINATION. The owner of every dog or cat shall have the animal
vaccinated against rabies at four (4) months of age, again at sixteen (16)
months of age and then every three (3) years by a licensed veterinarian or by a
certified rabies vaccinator with a rabies vaccine approved by the United States
Department of Agriculture and approved by the North Carolina Commission for
Health Services for use in this State.
   (B)   RABIES TAGS. A licensed veterinarian or a certified rabies vaccinator
who administers rabies vaccine to a dog or cat shall issue a rabies vaccination
tag to the owner of the animal. The rabies vaccination tag shall show the year
issued, a vaccination number, the words North Carolina or the initials “NC” and
the words “rabies vaccine”. The owner shall make sure that the dog or cat wears
the rabies tag at all times.
   (C)   RABIES VACCINATION CERTIFICATES. The owner of a dog or cat must be
able to produce a current rabies vaccination certificate. This certificate
shall be issued by a licensed veterinarian or a certified vaccinator at the
time the dog or cat is vaccinated. A copy of the certificate shall also be
mailed or delivered to the Animal Services Director by the licensed
veterinarian or certified rabies vaccinator within forty-five (45) days of the
animal being vaccinated. The Animal Services Director may implement another
method for collecting vaccination certificates. Brunswick County residents who
have their animals vaccinated outside of Brunswick County are responsible for
filing the rabies vaccination certificate within Animal Services within five
(5) days of the inoculation or within 5 days of their return to the local area.
   (D)   NON-TRANSFERABLE. Rabies tags cannot be transferred from animal to
animal.
   (E)   LOST, DESTROYED OR STOLEN RABIES TAGS. If a rabies tag is lost,
destroyed or stolen, a duplicate tag must be obtained from the veterinarian at
a fee not to exceed the actual cost of the tag, link and rivets, plus
transportation cost.
SECTION 3
BITES. In order that rabies may be controlled and treated, all persons shall
comply with the provisions of this Section.
   (A)   PERSONS BITTEN. Wounds inflicted by any animal known to be a potential
carrier of rabies shall be reported immediately to the County Health Director
and the Animal Services Director by the person who has been bitten, or in case
of a child, his or her parents or guardian or other responsible party. Any
person who has knowledge of a dog or cat inflicting a wound shall immediately
report the same to the County Health Director and/or the Animal Services
Director, and provide the names and addresses of the person(s) bitten and the
names and addresses of the owner(s) of any animals involved, if known. Every
physician who treats a wound inflicted by any animal known to be a potential
carrier of rabies shall report the incident to the County Health Director and/
or the Animal Services Director and provide the names and addresses of the
person(s) bitten and the names and addresses of the owner(s) of any animals
involved, if known, within twenty-four (24) hours of rendering treatment.
   (B)   CONFINEMENT OF BITING DOGS AND CATS AND CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS
SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. Every dog or cat that bites a human being shall be
confined immediately. The animal shall be delivered within eight (8) hours of
the incident, by the owner, to the County Animal Shelter or to a licensed
veterinary hospital. The animal shall be confined for observation for not less
than ten (10) days. The owner shall be responsible for the cost of confinement
at either place. The Animal Services Director shall have authority to order
confinement of a dog or cat to the County’s Animal Shelter or any other
appropriate facility. Brunswick County Animal Services may waive the cost of
confining the animal at the shelter if the bite occurred on the owner’s
premises and the animal was provoked. Final authority as to place of
confinement rests with the County Health Director. After reviewing the
circumstances of a particular case, the County Health Director may permit the
animal to be confined on the premises of the owner, but only after an
inspection and recommendation from the Animal Services Director. The Animal
Services Director’s recommendation shall be based on whether or not there is a
suitable secure enclosure on the premises and other circumstances warrant
confinement on the owner’s premises.
   An owner or possessor of an animal which is suspected of having rabies shall
immediately notify the County Health Director or Animal Services Director and
shall securely confine the animal until further instructed by the county Health
Director or Animal Services Director.
   (C)   DESTRUCTION OF INFECTED DOGS AND CATS. If a dog or cat, in or out of
confinement, develops rabies, as determined by a licensed veterinarian, it
shall be the duty of the owner to have such animal euthanized under the
supervision of the Animal Services Director. Any dog or cat known to have been
bitten by another animal which is known or proved to be rabid shall be
euthanized immediately by the owner or by the Animal Services Director unless
the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies more than three (3) weeks
prior to being bitten and is given a booster dose of rabies vaccine within
three (3) days of the bite.
SECTION 4
SANCTIONS, PENALTIES, FINES AND REMEDIES. Violations of this Article of the
Brunswick County Animal Control Ordinance, are punishable by prosecution in
criminal court as provided by G.S. 14-4, unless a greater penalty is provided
elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in Article
XIII, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action or by the
use of a collection agency.
   (A)   FAILURE TO KEEP RABIES TAGS ON DOGS AND CATS AT ALL TIMES. It shall be
a violation if a dog or cat is observed by an Animal Services Officer not
wearing a valid rabies tag, regardless of whether or not the animal is on or
off the owner’s property and regardless of whether or not the animal has been
vaccinated.
   (B)   FAILURE TO PRODUCE PROOF OF VACCINATION AND/OR FAILURE TO HAVE ANIMAL
VACCINATED WHEN THE OWNER IS KNOWN. In addition to any civil penalties imposed
for violation of subsection (A) above, the owner of a dog or cat may be
assessed another civil penalty, if he or she fails to produce proof of
vaccination and/or fails to have the animal vaccinated within seventy two (72)
hours of the issuance of a written Notice of Violation and Civil Penalty. The
Notice of Violation and Civil Penalty shall specify that the owner has seventy
two (72) hours to produce proof of vaccination and/or to have the animal
vaccinated and failure to do so shall result in the assessment of a civil
penalty. If the owner presents proof of vaccination within seventy two (72)
hours of the Issuance of the Notice of Violation, the civil penalty shall not
be assessed. Having the animal vaccinated or showing proof of vaccination shall
not discharge the civil penalties assessed for violation of subsection (A)
above.
   If the animal is not vaccinated and/or the civil penalty is not paid within
seventy two (72) hours, Animal Services shall have the authority to summarily
seize the animal. The owner shall have give five (5) days from the date of
seizure to redeem the animal. The owner may redeem the animal by paying the
civil penalty, the redemption fee and all boarding fees. If the owner wishes to
request a review of the seizure of the animal, the owner must file a written
request with the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee within five (5) days
of the seizure. If a timely request is filed, the Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee shall convene within ten (10) days of the receipt of
said request. If the owner disagrees with the Board of Health’s Environmental
Committee decision, the owner must seek a review by the Brunswick County
Superior Court within ten (10) days of the issuance of the Board Committee’s
written decision. If the owner fails to redeem the animal, or fails to timely
request a review of the seizure, or fails to timely appeal the Board
Committee’s written decision, the animal shall become the property of Brunswick
County and shall be disposed of according to this Ordinance.
   The Animal Services Officer may, in addition, issue a criminal summons or
warrant, pursuant to the G.S. 130A-25 for the owner’s violation of the North
Carolina General Statute 130A-185 or 130A-192. Any owner, if convicted, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than six (6) months.
   (C)   DOGS OR CATS WITHOUT VALID RABIES TAGS AND THE OWNER IS UNKNOWN. If a
dog or cat is observed not wearing a valid rabies vaccination tag and the owner
is unknown and cannot be found, the Animal Services Director or his designee
may impound the animal. Written notice of impoundment shall be posted at the
Animal Shelter for a minimum of five (5) days. If the animal has not been
redeemed by the owner after five (5) days the animal shall become the property
of Brunswick County to be disposed of according to this Ordinance. If the owner
is found, the animal shall be released upon payment of all redemption fees and
a civil penalty for failure to wear a valid rabies vaccination tag. The owner
may also be subject to other appropriate penalties described in Article IV,
plus a civil penalty for the animal being at large.
   (D)   FAILURE TO PROVIDE ANIMAL SERVICES WITH RABIES VACCINATION
CERTIFICATES. Any veterinarian or certified rabies vaccinator who willfully
refuses to turn over rabies vaccination certificates to Animal Services
pursuant to N.C. General Statute 130A-189, shall be subject to the issuance of
a criminal summons or warrants or the filing of a civil action to obtain the
certificates.
   (E)   FAILURE TO NOTIFY THE COUNTY HEALTH DIRECTOR AND/OR THE ANIMAL
SERVICES DIRECTOR OF A BITING INCIDENT AND FAILURE TO CONFINE BITING DOGS AND
CATS. If the owner of a dog or cat, or the person being bitten, or the parent
of a child or other legal guardian or person standing in loco parentis of the
person, fails to notify the Health Director and/or the Animal Services Director
and provide the names and addresses of the person(s) bitten and the names and
addresses of the owner(s) of any animals involved in a biting incident; or the
owner, who has knowledge of a dog or cat biting incident, fails to confine the
animal pursuant to Article II, Section 3, the Animal Services Director or the
County Health Director may seek the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant
charging the person with a violation of North Carolina General Statute 130A-
196.
ARTICLE III
ANIMAL CRUELTY
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS. As used in this Article the following terms are defined below:
   (A)   ANIMAL: Every non-human species, both domestic and wild.
   (B)   CRUELTY AND CRUEL TREATMENT: Every act, omission, or act of neglect
whereby unjustifiable, pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted, or
attempted to be caused or permitted, against animals, as well as acts or
attempted acts of teasing, molesting, baiting or trapping animals unlawfully.
By way of example and not limitation, the following acts or conditions shall
constitute prima facie evidence of animal cruelty:
      (1)   a collar, rope or chain embedded in or causing injury to an
animal’s neck;
      (2)   dogs or cats left out in the rain, snow, extreme heat or cold
without shelter;
      (3)   animals that have not been fed or watered adequately;
      (4)   intentionally allowing animals to engage in a fight;
      (5)   allowing animals to live in unsanitary conditions; and
      (6)   allowing animals to live under crowded conditions; and
      (7)   failure or refusal of an owner to obtain medical treatment for an
animal when in an Animal Services Officer’s opinion such treatment is needed.
   (C)   OWNER: Any person or group of persons owning, keeping, having charge
of or taking care of an animal.
   (D)   PERSON: Any human being, firm, partnership or corporation including
any nonprofit corporation.
   (E)   ADEQUATE SHELTER: An enclosure of at least three (3) sides, a roof and
a floor. The enclosure shall be ventilated and must have sufficient room for
the animal(s) to move around freely and to lie down comfortably. Animals housed
under the following conditions shall not constitute adequate shelter:
      (1)   underneath outside steps, decks and stoops; or
      (2)   inside of vehicles; or
      (3)   underneath vehicles; or
      (4)   inside metal barrels placed in direct sunlight during the summer;
or
      (5)   inside cardboard boxes.
SECTION 2
EXEMPTIONS. This Article shall not apply to agencies conducting biomedical
research or training, lawful activities for sport, the production of livestock
or poultry for sale as a consumer product and the lawful destruction of any
animal for the purpose of protecting livestock, poultry or humans.
SECTION 3
GENERAL CARE AND PROHIBITED ACTS. All animals shall be kept and treated under
sanitary and humane conditions and failure of the owner or possessor of the
animal to abide by the provisions listed below shall subject the owner or
possessor to the sanctions described in Section 5.
   (A)   FOOD, WATER AND SHELTER. All animals in the possession of any persons
shall be provided proper and adequate food and water. All animals, unless
otherwise indicated in this Ordinance, shall be given at suitable intervals not
to exceed twenty-four (24) hours, a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable
for the species and age, sufficient to maintain a healthful level of nutrition.
All animals shall have access to a constant supply of clean, fresh water. All
animals shall be provided proper and adequate shelter from the weather at all
times.
   (B)   CLEAN SHELTER. All shelter for animals and the area surrounding said
shelter shall be kept clean at all times.
   (C)   MEDICAL TREATMENT. All owners or possessors of animals shall provide
proper medical attention for sick, diseased or injured animals. A sick animal
shall go no longer than twenty-four (24) hours without veterinary care.
   (D)   CRUELTY AND CRUEL TREATMENT. No person shall beat, torment, overload,
overwork, tease, molest or bait an animal or otherwise cruelly treat an animal
as defined in Section 1(B) above. No person shall shoot a dog or any other
animal, either on or off the owner’s property, unless the animal is in the act
of attacking a human being, sheep, cattle, hog, goat, or poultry or any
domestic animal or as otherwise allowed by the N.C. Wildlife Resources
Commission. This shall not apply to Animal Services Officers when in the
performance of their duties. No person shall trap a dog or cat without the
permission of Animal Services.
   (E)   ILLEGAL CONTEST OR COMBAT. No person shall cause, permit or instigate
any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other illegal contest or combat between
animals or animals and humans.
   (F)   POISONING OF ANIMALS. No person shall expose any known poisonous
substance or mix a poisonous substance with food, so that it will likely be
eaten by any animal. This does not include acts or attempts of persons to rid
their own property of rats or any other acts permitted by the N.C. Wildlife
Resources Commission.
   (G)   CONFINING ANIMALS TO MOTOR VEHICLES OR TRANSPORTING ANIMALS. No person
shall leave an animal in a closed car, truck or other vehicle for such duration
or at temperatures as an Animals Services Officer, in his sole discretion,
deems harmful or potentially harmful to the animal. No person shall carry or
cause to be carried in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any animal in a
cruel or inhumane manner.
   (H)   ABANDONMENT. No person shall turn loose or discard any domesticated
animal or pet with the intent of abandoning such animal or pet.
   (I)   DISPOSING OF DEAD ANIMALS. All possessors or owners of animals that
die, from any cause, shall bury the dead animal to a depth of at least three
(3) feet beneath the surface of the ground on his or her leased or owned
property. No animal shall be buried within three hundred (300) feet of any
flowing stream or public body of water. In the alternative, said animal shall
be completely burned or otherwise disposed of in a manner approved by the State
Veterinarian. In any event, all dead animals shall be disposed of within
twenty-four (24) hours after knowledge of the death. No possessor or owner of a
dead animals shall remove the carcass of a dead animal from his premises to the
premises of another person without written permission of the person having
charge of such premises and without burying said carcass as provided above.
   (J)   REPORTING INJURED OR KILLED DOMESTIC ANIMALS. All persons who injure
or kill a domesticated animal by running over, into, or otherwise coming in
contact with such an animal with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle or other
vehicle shall notify the owner of the animal immediately. If the owner is not
known, the person who injured or killed the animal shall immediately notify the
Animal Services Director, or the Police Department if the injury or death
occurred in the city, or the Sheriff’s Department if the injury or death
occurred in the county. The person who injured or killed the animal shall give
his or her name and address to the appropriate authority. An owner or lessee of
real property who finds an injured or suffering domesticated animal on his
property shall report the same to Animal Services as soon as the animal is
discovered on the real property.
   (K)   ANIMALS GIVEN AWAY AS PRIZES. No live animal shall be given away,
raffled or offered as a prize, premium or advertising device for, or as an
inducement to enter, any contest, game or other competition involving skill or
chance.
   (L)   PUBLIC EXHIBITS OF ANIMALS. Animal Services shall have the authority
to inspect public exhibits of animals which are a part of fairs, carnivals,
festivals, fund raising events, petting zoos and any other activity or function
carried on in Brunswick County. Brunswick County Animal Services shall have the
authority to close down any exhibit, function or activity if it is determined
that animals are being cruelly treated or animals run the risk of causing
injury or harm to the public or run the risk of being injured or harmed
themselves. Animal Services, the Health Department nor Brunswick County accept
any liability for any injury, damage of property or loss visiting or monitoring
public exhibits of animals.
SECTION 4
FAILURE TO REPORT ANIMAL CRUELTY. An owner or lessee of property who knows, or
based on facts and circumstances should know, that animals are being or have
been cruelly treated on the owner’s or lessee’s real property, shall report
said act or acts of cruelty to the Animal Services Department. The owner or
lessee of real property who fails to report acts of animal cruelty shall be
subject to the appropriate sanctions described in Section 5 below.
SECTION 5
SANCTIONS, PENALTIES, FINES AND REMEDIES. Violations of this Article of the
Brunswick County Animal Control Ordinance, are punishable by prosecution in
criminal court as provided by G.S. 14-4, unless a greater penalty is provided
elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in Article
XIII, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action or by the
use of a collection agency.
   (A)   FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY PROVIDE FOR ANIMALS AND CRUEL TREATMENT OF
ANIMALS. Whenever it has been determined by an Animal Services Officer that an
animal is not being adequately provided for or is being cruelly treated, as
defined in Section 1 subsection B above, he may file with the magistrate a
sworn complaint requesting an order allowing him to take immediate custody of,
and provide suitable care for, the animal. The magistrate, pursuant to North
Carolina General Statute 19A-46 and this Ordinance, shall issue, the order only
when he finds probable cause to believe that the animal is being cruelly
treated and that it is necessary for the Animal Services Officer to take
immediate custody. Any magistrate’s order issued under this section shall be
valid for only twenty-four (24) hours after its issuance. After the Animal
Services Officer executes the order, he shall return it with a written
inventory of the animal(s) seized to the Clerk of Court.
   The Animal Services Officer may request that a law enforcement officer
accompany him to help seize the animal. He may forcibly enter any premises or
vehicle when necessary to execute the order only if he reasonably believes that
the premises or vehicle is unoccupied by any person and that the animal is on
the premises or in the vehicle and only if the Animal Services Officer is
accompanied by a law enforcement officer. In any case, he must give notice of
his identity and purpose to anyone who may be present before entering the
premises. If the premises is occupied and access to the premises and the animal
is denied by the occupant, the Animal Services Officer shall obtain a judicial
order from a District Court Judge authorizing forcible entry. Forcible entry
shall only be used during the daylight hours.
   When the Animal Services Officer seizes an animal, he must leave with the
owner, if known, or affix to the premises or vehicle a copy of the magistrate’s
order and a written notice of the description of the animal, the place where
the animal will be taken, the reason for taking the animal, a list of
conditions, if any, which must be met before the owner can redeem the animal
and the Animal Services Officer’s intent to file a complaint in District Court
requesting custody of the animal if the conditions are not met.
   When the Animal Services Officer takes custody of such an animal, he shall
file a verified complaint asking the District Court to determine custody of the
animal. The Animal Services Officer may also seek injunctive relief and any
other relief he deems appropriate. This complaint shall be filed as soon as
possible, but in no event longer than thirty (30) days after the taking of the
animal. If the owner surrenders the animal, the Animal Services Officer does
not have to file a complaint seeking custody of the animal.
   The Animal Services Officer must take any animal seized directly to a safe
and secure place and provide suitable care for it. The necessary expenses of
caring for a seized animal, including necessary veterinary care, shall be a
charge against the animal’s owner and a lien on the animal to be enforced as
provided by North Carolina General Statute 44A-4.
   (B)   ALTERNATIVE REMEDY AND SANCTION. If it is determined by an Animal
Services Officer that an animal is not in immediate danger, or the condition or
problem which gives rise to inadequate care or cruel treatment can be corrected
immediately or within a short period of time, not to exceed seventy two (72)
hours, he may, in lieu of Section 5, Subsection (A), issue a written Notice of
Violation requesting the owner or possessor of the animal to cease and desist
or to correct the problem within seventy two (72) hours. If the condition or
problem is not corrected within seventy two (72) hours or the owner or
possessor of the animal fails to cease or desist from the cruel treatment or
fails to adequately provide for the animal, the Animal Services Officer may
take action as outlined in Section 5, Subsection (A) above.
   (C)   VIOLATION OF SECTION 3 SUBSECTION (B); (CLEAN SHELTER).
Notwithstanding the other provisions and sanctions of this Article, when it has
been determined by an Animal Services Officer that animals have been allowed to
live in unsanitary conditions, and that said conditions resulted from the
owner’s unwillingness or inability to clean the area where animals are housed
or that the conditions resulted from the number of animals involved, Animal
Services may summarily seize the animals. Before the animals are seized, the
Animal Services Director or Health Director shall issue a Declaration of
Unsanitary Conditions and Notice of Seizure to the owner. If the owner wishes
to request a review of the seizure of the animals, the owner must file a
written request with the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee within five
(5) days of the seizure. If a timely request is filed, the Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee shall convene within ten (10) days of the filing of
said request. If the within ten (10) days of the filing of said request. If the
owner disagrees with the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee decision,
the owner must seek a review by the Brunswick County Superior Court within ten
(10) days of the issuance of the Board Committee’s written decision. If the
owner fails to timely review of the seizure or fails to timely appeal the
committee’s written decision, the animal shall become the property of Brunswick
County and shall become the property of Brunswick County and shall be disposed
of according to this Ordinance.
   (D)   VIOLATION OF SECTION 3 SUBSECTIONS (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), or (I).
When it has been determined by an Animal Services Officer that there has been a
violation of one or more of the following subsections: (D), (E), (F), (G), (H),
or (I) he may initiate the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant for
violating the following criminal statutes:
   N.C. General Statute 14-360, Cruelty to Animals
   N.C. General Statute 14-361.1, Abandonment of Animals
   N.C. General Statute 14—362 and 14-362.1, Cockfighting and other Animal
fights
   N.C. General Statute 14-363, Transporting Animals Cruelly
   N.C. General Statute 14-401, Animal Poisoning
   N.C. General Statute 106-403 and 106-405, Disposing of Dead Animals
Any person found guilty under any of the above criminal statutes shall be
subject to the penalty therein prescribed, or if no penalty therein prescribed,
or if no penalty is prescribed, then according to N.C. General Statute 14.4.
   (E)   VIOLATION OF SECTION 3, SUBSECTION (J); (REPORTING INJURED OR KILLED
DOMESTIC ANIMALS). When it has been determined by an Animal Services Officer
that a domesticated animal has been injured or killed, as a result of coming
into contact with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle or other vehicle, and the
person operating said conveyance fails to report the same, and the operator can
be identified by an eyewitness or physical evidence, the Animal Services
Officer may issue a written Notice of Violation and Civil Penalty to the
operator.
   Any owner or lessee of real property who fails to report the existence of an
injured or suffering domesticated animal on his property as required by Section
3, Subsection (J) above, may be issued a written Notice of Violation and Civil
Penalty.
   (F)   VIOLATION OF SECTION 3, SUBSECTIONS (K) OR (L); (ANIMALS AS PRIZES AND
PUBLIC EXHIBITS OF ANIMALS). Any person who violates Section 3, Subsection (K)
shall be subject to the issuance of a criminal warrant or summons and, if
convicted, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than six (6) months.
Any person who fails or refuses to close down an exhibit, function or activity
after being instructed to do so by Animal Services shall be subject to the
issuance of a criminal warrant or summons and, if convicted, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or imprisoned for not more than six (6) months.
Modified 07/05/05
ARTICLE IV
ANIMALS AT LARGE AND CONFINEMENT OF DOGS IN ESTRUS
SECTION 1
EXEMPTION. This Article shall not apply to cats. Cats are covered under Article
V.
SECTION 2
DEFINITIONS. As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:
   (A)   ANIMAL: Every non-human species, both domestic and wild.
   (B)   AT LARGE: Any animal found off of the property of its owner and not
under physical restraint of a competent person shall be deemed at large. Any
animal, which has been the subject of a previous at large complaint, shall be
deemed at large when found unrestrained on the owner’s property.
   (C)   IN ESTRUS: A female dog in what is commonly called “heat”.
   (D)   NIGHTTIME: The time one-hour after sunset and one hour before sunrise.
   (E)   OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge or taking care of any animal or allowing any
animal to remain on its property for seventy two (72) hours.
   (F)   OWNER’S PROPERTY: The owner’s property is that area described in a
deed of conveyance or the area described in a lease. In a situation involving
townhouses or condominiums, Animal Services will treat the “Common Areas” as
being owned by the Homeowner’s Association. In a situation involving leased
apartments, Animal Services will treat the “Common Areas”, as being owned by
the Lessor/Property Owner.
   (G)   PRIOR COMPLAINTS: For purposes of this Ordinance, any prior verbal or
written complaint to Animal Services about a specific animal being at large, or
any verbal or written complaint about any animals of an owner being at large,
shall constitute a prior complaint.
   (H)   RESTRAINT: An animal is under restraint if it is
      (1)   controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device, or
      (2)   within a vehicle or a secure enclosure, or
      (3)   under the control of a licensed hunter while said animal is in the
act of hunting. A dog which is hunting for game for which its Owner must hold a
hunting license as required by the State of North Carolina and only during the
designated season for the game so hunted, or
      (4)   participating in a dog show or field trail.
   Voice command is not recognized as adequate restraint.
SECTION 3
ANIMALS AT LARGE. The owner of an animal shall keep the animal on his property
or under restraint at all times. Any animal that has been reported as being off
of the owner’s property, or has previously caused injury to a person or animal,
or has displayed vicious tendency, or has been a public nuisance, must be
restrained by leash, chain, fence or enclosure by the owner even when on the
owner’s property.
SECTION 4
FEMALE DOG IN ESTRUS. An owner shall secure a female dog in estrus within a
building or secure enclosure.
SECTION 5
SANCTIONS, PENALTIES, FINES AND REMEDIES. Violations of this Article of the
Brunswick County Animal Control Ordinance are punishable by prosecution in
criminal court as provided by G.S. 14-4, unless a greater penalty is provided
elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties as prescribed in Article
XIII, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action or by the
use of a collection agency.
   (A)   ANIMAL AT LARGE. If Animal Services received a “first time” at large
complaint and an Animal Services Officer does not personally observe the animal
at large, the officer shall investigate said complaint. The Animal Services
Officer shall have authority to go on and about private property to investigate
said complaint. Upon a finding of probable cause to believe the animal was at
large he may issue a written Notice of Violation and Civil Penalty. If an
Animal Services Officer observes an animal off of the owner’s property and not
under restraint, he may impound the animal.
   The owner of an animal deemed at large may be issued a written notice of
violation and assessed a civil penalty for the first violation and additional
civil penalties for each subsequent violation. If the animal is impounded, the
owner must redeem the animal within five (5) days. If the owner fails to redeem
the animal within five (5) days, the animal shall become the property of
Brunswick County and may be disposed of according to this Ordinance. To redeem
the animal the owner must pay the civil penalty, all boarding fees and the
redemption fee. The owner of a dog, which is involved in the unprovoked bite of
another person, while the dog is running at large, shall be assessed a civil
penalty.
   When the same animal has been impounded three times or the owner has been
cited three times for his animal(s) being at large, the Animal Services
Director shall declare the animal(s) a public nuisance and/or cite the owner
for maintaining a public nuisance. The animal(s) shall then be housed or
confined according to the instructions of the Animal Services Director. If the
animal(s) is/are subsequently found at large or the owner is subsequently cited
for his animal(s) being at large, the Animal Services Director or Health
Director may impound the animal(s) and initiate an action in District Court for
custody of the animal or animals based on the owner’s failure to abate the
nuisance.
   (B)   DOG AT LARGE AT NIGHT. When the Animal Services Director has probable
cause to believe that a dog was or is at large at night, he may initiate the
issuance of a criminal summons or warrant charging the owner with a violation
of North Carolina General Statute 67-12. Any person convicted under North
Carolina General Statute 67-12 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more
than six (6) months. The owner of a dog that allows same to run at large at
night shall also be liable in damages to any person injured or suffering lost
to his property or chattels.
   (C)   FAILURE TO CONFINE FEMALE DOG IN ESTRUS. When the Animal Services
Director has probable cause to believe that an owner has failed or refused to
confine a female dog in estrus (heat) in a building or secure enclosure, he
shall initiate the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant charging the owner
with a violation of North Carolina General Statute 67-2. Any person convicted
under G.S. 67-2 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than six (6) months.
   (D)   PRIVATE REMEDIES. Nothing in this Article shall prevent a private
citizen from suing the owner of an animal, which has caused injury to said
private citizen or his property for damages or any other loss resulting from an
animal being at large.
ARTICLE VIII
DANGEROUS DOG OR OTHER DANGEROUS ANIMAL
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS. As used in this Article the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:
   (A)   AT LARGE: When any previously determined dangerous dog or other
dangerous animal is off of the property of its owner and not under restraint or
when any previously determined dangerous dog or other dangerous animal is not
confined to a secure enclosure while on the property of its owner, it shall be
deemed at large.
   (B)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
      (1)   A dog or other animal that:
         (a)   without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person, or
         (b)   is determined by the Health Director to be potentially dangerous
because the animal has engaged in one or more of the behaviors listed in the
definition of a potentially dangerous animal; or
      (2)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
   (C)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A dog or any other animal that without
provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a person, or a dog or
another animal that has:
      (1)   inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization; or
      (2)   killed or inflicted severe injury upon domestic animal when not on
the owner’s real property; or
      (3)   approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a vicious
or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   (D)   OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, harboring, having charge of or taking care of a dangerous dog
or other dangerous animal or allowing a dangerous dog or other dangerous animal
to remain on its property for seventy two (72) hours.
   (E)   OWNER’S PROPERTY: Any real property owned or leased by the owner of a
dangerous dog or other dangerous animal, not including any public right-of-way
or the common areas of a condominium, apartment complex or townhouse
development.
   (F)   RESTRAINT: A dangerous or potentially dangerous animal is restrained
if it is firmly under the control of a competent person by means of a leash,
chain, or rope at all times. When the animal is not in a secure enclosure but
on the owner’s property it shall be securely under restraint by a competent
person who by means of a leash, chain, or rope has the animal firmly under
control at all times. When a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal is off
of the property of its owner, restraint shall also include a secure muzzle on
the animal. For purposes of this section, tying a dangerous animal or
potentially dangerous animal to a stake, pipe, tree or any other stationary
object shall not constitute restraint. When the animal is not under the control
of a competent person, restraint shall mean confinement to a secure enclosure
deemed appropriate by the Health Director or his designee.
   (G)   SECURE ENCLOSURE: An enclosure from which dangerous animal or
potentially dangerous animal cannot escape unless freed by an owner. Enclosures
shall be of a size appropriate for the animal it will hold, and must have a
concrete floor. The enclosure shall be constructed with a minimum of 11 1/
2 gauge galvanized chain link fencing securely attached to the frame of said
enclosure. The enclosure shall have a wire top also constructed of a minimum 11
1/2 gauge galvanized chain link fencing. The enclosure’s exit/entry gate must
be equipped with a pad lock. Such facilities must be approved by the Health
Director or his designee. Human dwelling units shall not be approved as
enclosures for dangerous animals.
SECTION 2
EXEMPTION. This Article shall not apply to a dog being used by a law
enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer’s official duties,
or a dog being used in a lawful hunt, or a dog used as a hunting dog, herding
dog, or predator control dog on the property of or under the control of its
owner, or a dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person
who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or tort, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented, abused, or assaulted
the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
SECTION 3
DETERMINATION OF DANGEROUSNESS. If the Health Director receives information
that a dog or any other animal has exhibited or committed any of the acts
described in the potentially dangerous animal definition above, he must make a
determination as to whether the animal is potentially dangerous. The Health
Director must issue a written determination within five (5) days of learning
about the dangerous propensity of the animal. Whatever determination the Health
Director makes must be placed in writing. The written decision must contain his
reasons for declaring or not declaring the animal potentially dangerous. If the
animal is declared potentially dangerous, specific instructions in accordance
with Section 4 of this Article and any other controls as deemed as necessary by
the Health Director or his designee shall be given. These instructions must be
followed during the pendency of any appeal filed by the owner and at all times
thereafter unless the owner prevails on appeal. Animals declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous shall be seized by Brunswick County Animal Services and
impounded at Brunswick County Animal Shelter or other facility approved by the
Health Director or his designee. The animal shall be impounded for fourteen
days or until such time as the secure enclosure is constructed by the owner at
the discretion of the Health Director and approved by the Health Director or
his designee. All fines penalties and fees shall be paid by the owner of the
dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal prior to the animal being
reclaimed. Dangerous animals or potentially dangerous animals not reclaimed by
the owner after (20) days of being deemed dangerous shall become property of
Brunswick County and be humanely destroyed. The written decision shall be
served on the owner of the animal. If the owner of the animal disagrees with
the Health Director’s decision, he must file a written Appeal and Request for
Hearing with the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee within five (5) days
of receiving the written decision. The Board of Health’s Environmental
Committee shall schedule a hearing within ten (10) days of receiving the Appeal
and Request for Hearing. The Board of Health’s Environmental Committee shall
render a written decision within three (3) days after the hearing and serve the
same on the owner. The owner may appeal the Board of Health’s Environmental
Committee decision to the Superior Court by filing notice of appeal and a
petition for review within ten (10) days of the final decision of the Board of
Health’s Environmental Committee. The appeal shall be heard de novo in Superior
Court pursuant to N.C. General Statute 67-4.1(c).
SECTION 4
CONFINEMENT AND RESTRAINT OF A DANGEROUS DOG OR OTHER DANGEROUS ANIMAL. The
owner of a dangerous dog or other dangerous animal shall keep the animal within
a secure enclosure, as defined in Section 1 of this Article, on his property,
or on the property of another with written permission. When the animal is not
in a secure enclosure but on the owners property it shall be securely under
restraint by a competent person who by means of a leash, chain or rope has the
animal firmly under control at all times. When the animal is off of the
property of the owner, it shall be securely muzzled and under restraint by a
competent person who by means of a leash, chain or rope has the animal firmly
under control at all times. The owner shall notify Animal Services immediately
of an escape by the animal. All dangerous dogs must be microchipped for
identification by a licensed Veterinarian within (20) days at the owner’s
expense and Animal Services provided with the identification number. All owners
of dangerous dogs must purchase a sign from Animal Services that states
“DANGEROUS DOG” and post same on the enclosure where said dog is confined.
SECTION 5
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL. If the owner of a dangerous animal
or potentially dangerous animal transfers ownership or possession of the animal
to another person, the owner shall provide written notice to the new owner or
person taking possession that the animal is dangerous, as defined in this
Article and the owner shall provide Animal Services with written notice that
ownership or possession of the animal prior to the transfer of ownership.
SECTION 6
SANCTIONS, PENALTIES, FINES AND REMEDIES. Violations of this Article of the
Brunswick County Animal Control Ordinance, are punishable by prosecution in
criminal court as provided by G.S. 14-4, unless a greater penalty is provided
elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties as prescribed in Article
XIII, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action or by the
use of a collection agency.
   (A)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE.
   If an animal, which has previously been determined to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous by the Health Director, is found at large, it may be
tranquilized or humanely destroyed by an Animal Services Officer with or
without prior notice to the owner, only after unsuccessful attempts to catch it
and authorization from the Animal Services Director. If an Animal Services
Officer does tranquilize or humanely destroy such an animal, he shall submit a
written report of the incident to the Animal Services Director within seventy
two (72) hours of the incident and shall make a good faith attempt to notify
the owner of the incident.
   If an animal which previously has been determined to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous by the Health Director is determined by an Animal
Services Officer to pose immediate danger to the health and safety of any
person or animal, the dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal may be
tranquilized or humanely destroyed at the Animal Service Officer’s discretion,
with or without prior notification to the owner. In the event the Animal
Services Officer does tranquilize or humanely destroy such animal, he shall
submit a written report of the incident to the Animal Services Director within
seventy two (72) hours of the incident and shall make a good faith attempt to
notify the owner of the incident.
   If a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal is caught while at
large or seen at large, it may be impounded and humanely destroyed. Animal
Services may go upon private property to seize the animal. The Health Director
may issue a Notice of Intent to Destroy the Animal to the owner. The owner may
appeal this intended action by filing a written request with the Board of
Health’s Environmental Committee within five (5) working days of receiving the
written decision. The Board of Health’s Environmental Committee shall schedule
a hearing within ten (10) days of receiving the Appeal and Request for Hearing.
The Board of Health’s Environmental Committee shall hear the appeal and render
a final written decision within three working (3) days after the hearing and
serve the same on the owner. The owner may appeal the Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee decision to the Superior Court by filing notice of
appeal and a petition for review within ten (10) days of the final decision of
the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee. If the owner fails to seek a
timely review of the Animal Services Director’s Notice of Intent to Destroy the
Animal or if he fails to file a timely appeal of the Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee’s decision, Animal Services may humanely destroy the
animal. If the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal has failed
to adhere to the written dangerous dog instructions provided by the Health
Director, the Health Director may issue an Order of Seizure with Intent Destroy
the Animal to the owner. The owner may appeal this intended action by filing a
written request with the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee within five
(5) working days of receiving the written decision. The Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee shall schedule a hearing within ten (10) days of
receiving the Appeal and Request for Hearing. The Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee shall hear the appeal and render a final written
decision within three working (3) days after the hearing and serve the same on
the owner. The owner may appeal the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee
decision to the Superior Court by filing notice of appeal and a petition for
review within ten (10) days of the final decision of the Board of Health’s
Environmental Committee. If the owner fails to seek a timely review of the
Health Director’s Notice of Intent to Destroy the Animal or if he fails to file
a timely appeal of the Board of Health’s Environmental Committee’s decision,
Animal Services may humanely destroy the animal.
   (B)   FAILURE TO CONFINE OR RESTRAIN A DANGEROUS ANIMAL AND FAILURE TO
PROVIDE NOTICE OF TRANSFER. Any owner who fails to confine or restrain a
dangerous animal or any owner who fails to provide the written notices
described in Section 5 above or violates any provisions of this Article shall
be subject to the sanctions, fines, penalties and remedies mentioned above as
well as being subject to the issuance of a criminal warrant or summons. If
convicted, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than six
(6) months, or both.
   (C)   INJURY CAUSED BY A DANGEROUS ANIMAL. The owner of a dangerous animal
that attacks a person and causes physical injuries requiring medical treatment
in excess of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), imprisonment
up to two (2) years, or both (N.C.G.S. 67-4.3).
ARTICLE X
INTERFERENCE
INTERFERENCE. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
molest an employee of Animal Services or any other person duly authorized by
this Ordinance while in the performance of duty. It shall also be unlawful for
any person to seek release, or attempt to release, or to release any animal in
the custody of Animal Services, except as otherwise specifically provided in
this Ordinance. The Animal Services Director may initiate the issuance of a
criminal warrant for any person violating this Article. If convicted, the
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months.
ARTICLE XII
IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS. As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:
   (A)   ANIMAL: Every non-human species, both domestic and wild.
   (B)   FERAL CAT: A domestic cat which has adapted to survive in the wild, is
homeless and ownerless, having descended from stray and possibly generations of
abandoned house pets.
   (C)   IMPOUNDMENT: Possession or seizure of an animal by Brunswick County
Animal Services for placement in the County’s Animal Shelter or any other
appropriate facility.
SECTION 2
IMPOUNDMENT: Not inconsistent with the proceeding Articles of this Ordinance,
any healthy animal, with the exception of a feral cat, which appears to be
lost, strayed or unwanted, or any dog or cat which is found not wearing a
current valid rabies vaccination tag, or any wild or exotic animal or poisonous
reptile which has escaped or poses the danger of escaping may be confined to
the Animal Shelter or any other appropriate facility in a humane manner for a
minimum period of five (5) days, unless otherwise specified by this Ordinance,
for redemption by the owner. Any animal not redeemed within five (5) days shall
become the property of Brunswick County and shall be disposed of pursuant to
this Ordinance. Brunswick County Animal Services is authorized to obtain
suitable board, maintenance and care from any available source for any
impoundment animal for which the Animal Shelter is not equipped to care. The
owner of any animal impounded and cared for under this provision of the
Ordinance may redeem the animal upon payment of all costs for maintenance,
transportation and care plus regular redemption fees provided in Article XII.
SECTION 3
FERAL CATS. A feral cat shall be held for three (3) working days for redemption
by a possible owner. If the feral cat is not redeemed within three (3) working
days, it may be euthanized pursuant to this Ordinance. Before a feral cat is
euthanized, a panel of three (3) persons must unanimously declare the cat a
feral cat. If the panel cannot agree unanimously, the cat must be held for five
(5) days. The panel is to be made up of three (3) Animal Services staff
members, each with a minimum of one (1) year’s experience with Animal Services.
SECTION 4
NOTICE, A good faith effort shall be made to notify known owners of impounded
animals. If the owner is known, a written Notice of Impoundment shall be served
on the owner or affixed to the owner’s premises. The written notice shall
describe the animal, state the date, time and place the animal was picked up
and inform the owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
Instructions on how to determine if an animal has been impounded shall be
posted at the Animal Shelter. The posting of these instructions at the Animal
Shelter shall constitute adequate notice to an unknown owner.
SECTION 5
BOARDING FEES. The Animal Services Director, with the assistance of Shelter
personnel, shall charge to the owner the following fees, which must be paid
before an animal may be redeemed:
 
Per Day Boarding Fee for dogs           $10.00
Per Day Boarding Fee for cats           $10.00
Per Day Boarding fee for all other      $10.00
animals kept at the Animal Shelter
Per Day Boarding fee for all other      The actual amount charged by the
animals not kept at the Animal Shelter  caretaker or boarder of the animal.
Non-Routine Charge for transporting the The actual amount charged by the person
animal                                  providing the transportation.
 
The above fees are in addition to the Redemption fees set forth in Article XIV
and are subject to adjustment or change by the Brunswick County Board of County
Commissioners at any time.
ARTICLE XIII
CIVIL PENALTIES
CIVIL PENALTIES. Animal Services is authorized to assess civil penalties for
violations of this Ordinance. Any assessed civil penalty not paid within 20
days of issuance may be turned over to a collection agency or efforts made to
collect in civil court.
Failure to Wear Rabies Tag                             $50.00
Failure to Vaccinate                                   $100.00
Failure to Notify, or Provide Information of a Bite    $100.00
Manner of Keeping and Treating Animals                 $100.00
Failure to Give Notice of Injuring Animal              $50.00
Failure to Give Notice of Injured Animal On Property   $50.00
Unprovoked Dog Bite While Running at Large             $500.00
Animals Running at Large: 1st Time                     $50.00
Animals Running at Large: 2nd Time                     $75.00
Animals Running at Large: 3rd Time                     $100.00
Animals Running at Large: 4 or More                    $150.00
Failure to Confine Dog/Cat in Estrus                   $75.00
Animal Public Nuisance: 1st Time                       $50.00
Animal Public Nuisance: 2 or More                      $75.00
Harboring Stray Animals                                $50.00
Dangerous Dog Violations                               $100.00
Violation of Exotic Animal Ordinance (per day)         $50.00
Interference with Officer                              $150.00
Interference with Trap or Cage                         $100.00
Unspecified Violations of the Ordinance (Each)         $50.00
Miscellaneous Fee: Euthanasia By Request               $10.00
Miscellaneous Fee: Tranquilize Small Animal By Request $10.00
Miscellaneous Fee: Tranquilize Large Animal By Request $15.00
Miscellaneous Fee: Lost Darts                          $10.00
 
These amounts may be changed by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners at
any time.
ARTICLE XIV
REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS
SECTION 1
REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS. An owner of an animal, which has been impounded by
Animal Services, may resume possession of the animal, except as already
provided or in other Articles of this Ordinance, upon compliance with the
following provisions:
   (A)   PROOF AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF OWNERSHIP. Any person attempting to redeem
an impounded animal shall present proof sufficient to satisfy Shelter personnel
of ownership of the animal. Evidence of ownership may include but is not
limited to any of the following:
      (1)   License tag from another county;
      (2)   Rabies tag for the animal;
      (3)   Ownership documents, pedigree papers, bill of sale and any other
document identifying the person as owner of the animal;
      (4)   Photographs of the animal with the owner or other family members;
or
      (5)   Affidavit from two people in the community stating that the animal
has been seen in the presence or possession of the person attempting to resume
possession.
   Any person attempting to redeem an animal on behalf of an owner shall
present proof sufficient to satisfy Shelter personnel that he or she is acting
as agent for the owner.
   (B)   TIME OF REDEMPTION. Any person attempting to redeem an animal must
make contact with the Animal Shelter within five (5) days of the animal being
impounded at the Animal Shelter or some other appropriate facility. After
making contact, that person shall be given a reasonable amount of time to prove
ownership of the animal not to exceed five (5) additional days.
   (C)   PAYMENT OF REDEMPTION FEES, BOARDING FEES AND CIVIL PENALTIES. The
owner of an impounded animal must pay all redemption fees, boarding fees and
civil penalties assessed against the animal before it can be released from the
shelter. Any person, after presenting sufficient proof of ownership, may redeem
the animal after paying the following fees and costs:
 
1st Redemption by owner       $50.00 + Boarding Fee + Civil Penalty
2nd Redemption by owner       $75.00 + Boarding Fee + Civil Penalty
3rd Redemption by owner       $100.00 + Boarding Fee + Civil Penalty
4th and Subsequent Redemption $150.00 + Boarding Fee + Civil Penalty
 
If an owner cannot prove a current rabies vaccination, he/she will be charged
an additional $10.00 for a rabies vaccination certificate.
These amounts may be changed by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners at
any time. The animal shall become the property of Brunswick County if the owner
fails to pay all amounts due and if the appropriate holding period has passed,
and will then be disposed of as provided by this ordinance.
ARTICLE XV
DISPOSITION AND ADOPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS
SECTION 1
DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS. If an animal is not redeemed by its owner
within the allowed time for redemption, the animal shall become the property of
Brunswick County without any further notice to the owner. Once the animal
becomes the property of Brunswick County, the Animal Services Director is
authorized to adopt the animal out or euthanize it. Any sick or diseased
animal, which appears to be lost, strayed or unwanted and is found not wearing
a rabies vaccination tag or any other form of identification may be euthanized
immediately by order of the Animal Services Director. Any sick or diseased
animal, with proof of ownership, confined in the County Animal Shelter, may be
euthanized by order of the Animal Services Director after recommendation of a
licensed veterinarian.
SECTION 2
ADOPTION FEES. Adoption fees shall be set by the Board of County Commissioners.
ALL DOGS OVER 6 MONTHS                  $65.00
Includes a physical examination, heartworm test, rabies vaccination, and spay
or neuter.
ALL DOGS UNDER 6 MONTHS                  $46.00
Includes a physical examination, rabies vaccination, and spay or neuter.
ALL FEMALE CATS AND KITTENS               $55.00
Includes a physical examination, feline leukemia/F.I.V. test, rabies
vaccination, and spay or neuter.
ALL MALE CATS                        $35.00
Includes a physical examination, feline leukemia/F.I.V. test, rabies
vaccination, and spay or neuter.
BONAFIDE RESCUE GROUPS                  $5.00
Nonprofit animal rescue groups that provide their own medical services and
documentation thereof to Animal Services are entitled to this reduced rate.
SECTION 3
RECOVERY OF ADOPTED ANIMAL. The Animal Services Director is authorized to
recover, reclaim or repossess an animal and dispose of the animal according to
this ordinance if the adopting party violates the adoption agreement.
ARTICLE XVI
SERVICE AND RETURN OF SERVICE
SECTION 1
METHOD OF SERVICE AND RETURN. Unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance, all
notices or citations required to be sent or delivered pursuant to this
Ordinance shall be served and return of service made as follows:
   (A)   PERSONAL SERVICE. The Animal Services Director or Animal Services
Officer may deliver notices or citations to all persons due a notice or
citation pursuant to this Ordinance. If he does so, he must get the person to
sign a certificate verifying that the notice or citation was in fact received,
and the Animal Services Director or Animal Services Officer shall sign a return
of service certificate verifying that he is fact served the notice or citation.
If the person being served refuses to sign the notice or citation verifying
receipt of the same, the person making service shall write in the appropriate
space “refused to sign”. The person’s refusal shall not invalidate the service.
The Animal Services Director or Animal Services Officer may leave the notice or
citation with anyone of suitable age and discretion at the residence or place
of business of the person being served. The person serving said notice or
citation shall have the recipient sign the service certificate.
   (B)   REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL. The Animal Services Director may serve
notices or citations by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
ARTICLE XVII
APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR REVIEW
SECTION 1
APPEAL PROCEDURE. All civil citations may be appealed in writing. The notice of
appeal must be addressed to Brunswick County Animal Services, Attention: Animal
Services Director, P.O. Box 92, Supply, NC 28462 and postmarked or personally
delivered within 20 days of receipt of the citation.
SECTION 2
APPEAL HEARING. Appeals of Animal Services Civil Citations shall be heard
within 30 days of the Notice of Appeal, unless a continuance is mutually agreed
upon. The Appeal Hearing shall be held by the Health Director or his designee.
All testimony offered in a hearing held pursuant to this Article shall be given
under oath and recorded by tape recording or any other reasonable manner. The
hearing shall be open to the public. The person requesting the hearing may be
represented by an attorney. The Animal Services Director or Animal Services
Officer shall have the burden of proving that this Ordinance has been violated
and that the proposed sanction is in accordance with the Ordinance. The person
requesting the hearing will then be given the opportunity to prove that this
Ordinance has not been violated and/or that the sanction is not in compliance
with the Ordinance. The person requesting the hearing may admit the violation
and confine his proof to showing that the sanction is not in accordance with
the Ordinance. The Animal Services Director will then be given the opportunity
to address any conflicts or inconsistencies created by the evidence or
statements.
The Health Director or his designee will render a Decision and a Notice of
Decision will be furnished to all parties concerned (complainant, bite victim,
animal owner, etc.) If the sanctions/penalties are upheld, the animal owner
will have 20 days to pay any fines or fees before collection efforts are
initiated. The animal owner may further appeal the decision of the Health
Director or his designee to Brunswick County Superior Court within 10 days of
the service of the Notice of Decision.
ARTICLE XVIII
GENDER
GENDER STATEMENT. In this Ordinance, words of the masculine gender shall be
deemed and construed to include correlative words of the feminine and neuter
genders, words importing the singular number shall include the plural number,
and vice versa.
ARTICLE XIX
SEVERABILITY
SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional in any
Court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
ARTICLE XX
ENFORCEMENT AND EFFECT OF THIS ORDINANCE
SECTION 1
ENFORCEMENT. The Animal Services Director or any other person duly authorized
to initiate legal action on behalf of Brunswick County may take necessary legal
steps to enforce this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be enforced by imposing
the specific sanctions, penalties, fines and other remedies described herein,
by seeking injunctive relief, orders of abatement, orders of custody and any
other means prescribed by statute or common law. Any violation of this
Ordinance, which does not carry a specific sanction, penalty or fine, shall be
punishable as a general criminal misdemeanor as defined by North Carolina law.
SECTION 2
EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall take effect sixty (60) days after its
adoption. All persons who must obtain a permit to comply with this Ordinance
shall be given sixty (60) days after adoption of this Ordinance to comply.
SECTION 3
EFFECT ON PRIOR ORDINANCE. All prior animal control ordinances are hereby
repealed sixty (60) days after the adoption of this Ordinance.
CHAPTER 91: LEISURE ACTIVITIES
Section
   
91.01   No Wake Zone on Lockwood Folly River
§ 91.01 NO WAKE ZONE ON LOCKWOOD FOLLY RIVER.
   A No Wake Zone is created and enforced by the appropriate governmental
authorities on the Lockwood Folly River from a point 800 feet downstream of the
boat ramp at the end of State Road 1123 and proceeding to a point 900 feet
upstream of the Lockwood Folly Seafood Fish House dock; also including the area
east of the boat ramp to a point 500 feet upstream in Mill Creek.
(Ord. passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   VIDEO GAMING MACHINES
      
111.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
CHAPTER 110: VIDEO GAMING MACHINES
Section
   
110.01   Authority
   
110.02   Statement of purpose
   
110.03   Abrogation
   
110.04   Definition
   
110.05   Application of regulations
   
110.06   Nonconforming video gaming machines
   
110.07   Enforcement
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of these regulations are adopted by the Board of
Aldermen and after public hearing as required by statute.
   (B)   From and after the effective date set forth hereinafter, these
regulations shall apply to every building, lot, tract, or parcel of land within
the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000)
§ 110.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is recognized that there are some uses which, because of their very
nature, are recognized as having serious objectionable operational
characteristics, particularly when several of them are concentrated under
certain circumstances, thereby having a deleterious effect upon adjacent areas.
   (B)   Special regulation of these upon adjacent areas is necessary to ensure
that these adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading
of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the town, this chapter is adopted by the Board of
Aldermen to regulate video gaming machines.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000)
§ 110.03 ABROGATION.
   These regulations shall not repeal, impair, abrogate, or interfere with any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, setback requirements, rules,
definitions, or regulations previously adopted pursuant to law in the town.
However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the provisions of
these regulations shall govern.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000)
§ 110.04 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VIDEO GAMING MACHINES. A video machine which requires deposit of any coin,
token, or use of any credit card, debit card, or any other method that requires
payment to activate play of any of the games listed in this section. This shall
include slot machines as defined in G.S. § 14-306(a) and other forms of
electrical, mechanical, or computer games such as:
      (1)   A video poker game or any other kind of video playing game;
      (2)   A video bingo game;
      (3)   A video craps game;
      (4)   A video keno game;
      (5)   A video lotto game;
      (6)   8 liner;
      (7)   Pot of Gold; and/or
      (8)   Any video game based on or involving the random or chance matching
of different pictures, words, numbers, or symbols not dependent on the skill or
dexterity of the player.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Video gaming machines shall be regulated as to location in the following
manner in addition to any other requirements of this code.
   (A)   No gaming machines shall be permitted in any building that is:
      (1)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building used as
a dwelling;
      (2)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building in which
a video gaming machine is located;
      (3)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building used as
a church, synagogue, or other house of worship, or cemeteries;
      (4)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building uses as
a school or as a state licensed day care center or nursing home facility;
      (5)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel
on which a playground, public swimming pool, public park, or museum is located;
      (6)   Located within 1,500 feet of any publicly owned or operated
facility; and/or
      (7)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building in which
a sexually oriented business is located.
   (B)   When computing distances, the entire property for the establishment
shall be considered, including any parking lots.
   (C)   No more than one video gaming machine shall be located in the same
building or structure or the same lot.
   (D)   No signs advertising video gaming are permitted.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 NONCONFORMING VIDEO GAMING MACHINES.
   (A)   Any video gaming machines lawfully operating as of the effective date
of this chapter that are in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Any use which is determined to be nonconforming by application of the
provision of this section shall be permitted to continue for a period not to
exceed one year.
   (C)   Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or
altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   (D)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 180 days or
more, it may not be reestablished.
   (E)   A video gaming machine operating lawfully as a conforming use shall
not be rendered nonconforming by the subsequent location of a dwelling, church,
house of worship, day care center, school, playground, public swimming pool, or
public park.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate and it shall
not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there
is an adequate remedy at law.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000)
CHAPTER 111: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
111.01   Enactment
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Prohibition
   
111.04   Location
   
111.05   Temporary license
   
111.06   Ownership disclosure
   
111.07   Age requirements
   
111.08   Inspections
   
111.09   Revocation of license
   
111.10   Exterior portions of regulated establishments
   
111.11   Signage
   
111.12   Parking
§ 111.01 ENACTMENT.
   The town by and through its Board of Aldermen enacts this chapter regulating
the location and operation of adult entertainment establishments, providing a
licensing requirement for those businesses, providing distance separation
requirements for those businesses, providing regulations or restrictions for
the external appearance and advertising of such establishments, and providing
for enforcement.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment which derives more than 50% of its
revenues from the offering to customers of books, magazines, sexual
paraphernalia, films, or videotapes (whether for viewing off premises or on
premises by use of motion picture machines or other image producing devices),
periodicals, or other printed or pictorial materials which are intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers, and which
are distinguished by, or characterized by, an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. An establishment whose principal business purpose is the
offering to customers of live entertainment which is intended to provide sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers, and which is
distinguished by, or characterized by, an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Includes, but is not necessarily limited
to, an adult club or cabaret used for any type presentation depicting,
exhibiting, or describing specified sexual activities or also includes
bookstores, theaters, video stores, peep shows, model studios, sexual encounter
centers, massage parlors, escort services, and motels as the same are further
defined herein and any other establishment which contains activities
characterized by the performance, depiction, or description of specified sexual
activities or specific anatomical areas.
   ADULT MODEL STUDIO.
      (1)   Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
      (2)   MODELING STUDIOS will not be considered adult entertainment
establishments if the person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a
modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration:
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, film motions
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical area and has a sign visible from the public
right-of-way which advertise the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT THEATER. An establishment containing a room with tiers or rows of
seats facing a screen or projection area whose principal business purpose is
the exhibition to customers of motion pictures which are intended to provide
sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and which are
distinguished by, or characterized by, an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial enterprise selling or renting any of the
following as more than 50% of its gross revenues:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical area; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT SERVICE. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   EXTERIOR PORTION. Any part of the physical structure of a regulated
establishment, including a wall, veneer, door, fence, roof, roof covering, or
window, which is visible from any public way or public property.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any business or establishment where massage is practiced
excluding health clubs which derive more than 90% of revenue from sport
activities or sale of memberships to engage in sport activities.
   NUDITY. The appearance of a bare human buttocks, male genitals, female
genitals, or female breast(s).
   PEEP SHOWS. A theater which presents material in the form of live show films
or videotapes, viewed from an individual enclosure, for which a fee is charged
and which is not open to the public generally but excludes any minor by reason
of age.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, areolae of the female breast, and those portions of the
body covered by supporting straps and devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex;
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one of more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
or
      (3)   Sadistic/masochistic flagellation or torture (real or simulated) of
one person by another and/or the fettering, binding, or physical restraining
one person by another.
   SIGN. Any display, design, pictorial, or other representation, which shall
be constructed, placed, attached, painted, erected, fastened, or manufactured
in any manner whatsoever so that the same is visible from the outside of a
regulated establishment and that is used to seek the attraction of the public
to any goods, services, or merchandise available at such regulated
establishment. The term SIGN shall also include such representations painted on
or otherwise affixed to any exterior portion of a regulated establishment as
well as such representations painted on or otherwise affixed to any part of the
tract upon which such a regulated establishment is situated.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernable turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. 
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touchings of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks, or female breast;
      (4)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic, or sexually oriented torture, beating, or the
infliction of pains; or
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling, or other such contact with an animal by
a human being.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995)
§ 111.03 PROHIBITION.
   It should be unlawful for any person or group of persons, partnership,
limited partnership, or corporation or any other entity to operate or cause to
be operated an adult entertainment establishment except as permitted herein.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LOCATION.
   (A)   Adult entertainment establishment shall not be located closer than:
      (1)   One thousand feet from any residence;
      (2)   One thousand feet from any church, daycare center, public or
private, elementary or secondary education school, public park, public library,
cemetery, or motion picture establishment which shows G or PG rated movies to
the general public on a regular basis; or
      (3)   Two thousand feet from any other adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   Measurements of distance separation shall be in a straight line from
the closest points of the building at which the adult uses are located.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   (A)   A temporary license shall be required prior to the staging of any
adult entertainment show or contest in an adult entertainment establishment
which schedules such entertainment less than 12 times per calendar year.
   (B)   Activities requiring license shall include, but are not necessarily
limited to, male and/or female burlesque or fantasy shows, wet t-shirt
contests, and other such one time, or irregularly scheduled, events.
   (C)   Complete application forms shall be submitted 30 days prior to the
date of the event to the Town Clerk.
   (D)   A permit fee of $250 shall accompany the application.
   (E)   A site plan showing parking ingress and egress and maximum seating
capacity of the structure shall be required.
   (F)   A written certification of type of entertainment shall be provided.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 OWNERSHIP DISCLOSURE.
   If a person who wishes to operate adult entertainment establishment is an
individual, he or she must sign the application as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate an adult entertainment establishment is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign an application for a permit and/or license as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as an owner of the adult business or is an entity which
wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation must sign the application for a permit and/or
license as applicant. All corporate officers shall also sign the application.
The fact that person possesses other types of state or county permits and/or
licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a sexual
oriented business permit and/or license.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 AGE REQUIREMENTS.
   An adult entertainment establishment shall neither employ nor permit the
admittance/patronage of any person who is under 21 years of age.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 INSPECTIONS.
   The management of an adult entertainment establishment shall permit
representatives of the Police Department, Sheriff’s Department, County Health
Department, County Building Inspection Department, County Zoning Codes
Enforcement Department, Fire Department, County Planning and Zoning Department,
or other municipal, county, or state agencies to inspect the premises at any
time it is open for business.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Town Clerk shall remove a license thereby suspending the operation of
any adult entertainment establishment for the following:
   (A)   For giving false or misleading information by the permittee at any
time in the application process;
   (B)   Illegal sale of any controlled substance on the premises;
   (C)   Failure to permit inspection by authorized municipal, county, and
state agencies or personnel;
   (D)   Violation of age restrictions as specified in this chapter; and/or
   (E)   For the arrest and conviction of any owner or employee for violation
of any of the ABC laws or controlled substance laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995)
§ 111.10 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF REGULATED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a regulated
establishment to allow the merchandise or activities of the regulated
establishment to be visible from any point outside such regulated
establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a regulated
establishment to allow the exterior portions of the regulated establishment to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, drawings, or
pictorial representation of any manner except to the extent permitted by the
provision of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a regulated
establishment to allow exterior portions of the regulated establishment to be
painted any color other than a single achromatic color (i.e., zero saturation
and without hue). This provision shall not apply to any regulated establishment
if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The regulated establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit
center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the regulated
establishment, are painted the same color as one another or are painted in such
a way so as to be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of
the commercial multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a regulated establishment.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall supersede or replace any sign ordinance
already in effect within the town, but shall be in addition thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any regulated
establishment or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign for
the regulated establishment other than one primary sign and one secondary sign,
as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 75 square feet in area; and
      (4)   Not exceed ten feet in height or ten feet in length.
   (C)   (1)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner, and may contain only:
         (a)   The name of the regulated establishment; and/or
         (b)   One or more of the following phrases:
            1.   “Adult Bookstore”;
            2.   “Adult Movie Theater”;
            3.   “Adult Cabaret”;
            4.   “Adult Entertainment”; and/or
            5.   “Adult Model Studio”.
      (2)   Primary signs for adult movie theaters may contain the additional
phrase, “Movie Titles Posted on Premises”.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of a solid
color, and each such letter shall be the same print type, size, and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (3)   Not exceed five feet in height and four in width; and
      (4)   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the establishment.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PARKING.
   Adult entertainment establishments shall be required to provide one on-
premises parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area of the
structure or one on-premises parking space per every three persons of maximum
seating capacity, whichever is greater; plus one space per employee. Maximum
seating capacity shall be determined by the County Fire Department and/or
Building Inspection Department.
(Ord. passed 2-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: FIREARMS
Section
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Purpose
   
130.03   Administration
   
130.04   Firearm discharge prohibited
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Varnamtown Firearm
Ordinance for the Town of Varnamtown, North Carolina” or “this chapter” or
“chapter”.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2000)
§ 130.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the citizens within the
territorial jurisdiction of the town from hazardous conditions associated with
the discharge of high powered firearms.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2000)
§ 130.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The state’s Wildlife Officer shall be the administrator of this chapter.
Penalties and/or punishment resulting from violations of this chapter shall be
determined by the state’s laws regarding such violations.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 FIREARM DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   The discharge of high powered firearms which include, but are not limited
to, a rifle or pistol above a .22 caliber and shotgun slug are prohibited
within the territorial jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   RIVERSIDE I SUBDIVISION
      
151.   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   MANUFACTURED HOMES AND HOME PARKS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; ADDRESSING
      
156.   CAMPGROUNDS
CHAPTER 150: RIVERSIDE I SUBDIVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Jurisdiction
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Word interpretation
   
150.07   Restrictions and reservations
Administration
   
150.20   Administration generally
   
150.21   Amendments
   
150.22   Abrogation
   
150.23   Variances
   
150.24   Conflicts of interest
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited and referred to, as the
“Riverside I Subdivision Ordinance”, “this chapter”, or “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development of Riverside I within the territorial jurisdiction of the town. It
is further designed to provide for the orderly growth and development of
Riverside I and to establish the restrictions and conditions applicable to all
lots located in Section I of the Riverside Subdivision, located in the town.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015)
§ 150.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S.
Chapter 160D.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 150.04 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein shall govern Section I, Riverside
Subdivision within the town as provided in G.S. Chapter 160D.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The town’s Board of Aldermen and serves as the Board of
Appeals.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line beyond
which no structure shall be erected. Setbacks shall be calculated from the
street right-of-way line.
   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets, a lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street closed at one end, being 45 feet in width, but at said
end having a provision for convenience turn around maneuvering of vehicles.
   DEDICATION. An appropriation of land to some public use made by the owner
thereof and accepted for such use by or on behalf of the public. Because a
transfer of property rights is entailed, DEDICATION must be made by written
instrument. When the gift of land is for a public purpose, it must be in fee
simple. A DEDICATION is accomplished by acceptance from the Board of Aldermen.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner or subdivider of a parcel of land
for specified lawful purpose including, but not limited to, installation and
maintenance of utilities, ingress or egress, and drainage of lands.
   INTERIOR LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be
referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   LOCAL ROAD/STREET. A road with a 45-foot width right-of-way that serves
primarily to provide access to adjacent land and for travel over relatively
short distances.
   LOT. Any portion, piece, division, or parcel of land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership, or for development, or both. Lot depth and lot width
shall be determined by the definition of lot depth and lot width as defined in
this chapter.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoints of straight lines connecting
the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rear most points of
the side lot lines in the rear.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear lot
lines at each of the lot measured parallel to a line established by joining the
foremost points of the side lot lines and at half the depth of the lot.
   MODULAR HOME. A home built in a factory and then put together on site. The
modules are picked up off the carrier by a crane and placed on a foundation.
Built to meet the same state and local Building Code requirements. A MODULAR
HOME is deeded to the property, being financed, taxed, and ensured the same as
a stick built home.
   MODULAR HOME OFF-FRAME. A modular home that is built to meet the same state
and local building code requirements and is lifted off the transportation
carrier by a crane and placed on a permanent foundation, having no permanent
steel beam chassis.
   MODULAR HOME ON-FRAME. A modular home having a permanent steel beam chassis
and built to state and local building codes instead of Federal HUD Code. The
axles, wheels, and tongue can be bolted back to move it. It does not require a
permanent foundation.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Aldermen as a guide to the physical development of the town.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PLANNING BOARD. The PLANNING BOARD is made up of two members of the Board of
Aldermen and three members of the community, appointed by the Board of Aldermen
and serves as a quasi-judicial Board of Adjustments.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites, or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated right-of-way which affords access to abutting
properties and have a minimum width of 30 feet.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A wastewater treatment system serving two or
more dwelling units and approved by the County Health Department and/or the
State Department of Natural and Economic Resources, Division of Environmental
Management, or appropriate agent of the state.
   PUBLIC STREET. A public right-of-way which affords access to abutting
properties and when such rights-of-way are designated as public, it shall be
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public. All PUBLIC STREETS shall
be designed and constructed as to meet minimum right-of-way and construction
standards for acceptance into the state secondary roads system in accordance
with G.S. § 136-102.6(c). The following classification shall apply.
      (1)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides services to small
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
      (2)   THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way of minimum 60 feet in width which
connects to a S.R., N.C., or U.S. designated roadway and is the major road for
ingress and egress to a major subdivision.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to one or
more residences or businesses, or combination of residences or businesses.
Approval by the Sanitary Engineering Division State Board of Health, Department
of Human Resources, or appropriate agent of the state.
   RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate such activities.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built, erected, or constructed that is walled or roofed
or a gas or liquid storage tank that is primarily above ground. STRUCTURE does
not include swimming pools, utility poles, fences, uncovered patios and decks.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation which subdivides
or develops any land deemed to be a subdivision as defined in accordance with
G.S. § 160D-802.
   TOWN. The Town of Varnamtown, a municipal corporation of the state.
   WATERFRONT LOT. Land abutting a body of water.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021; Ord. passed 8-9-2021)
§ 150.06 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense;
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural;
   (C)   Words used in the plural number include the singular, unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise;
   (D)   The “person” includes firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust, and company, as well as individual;
   (E)   The word “structure” shall include the word “building”;
   (F)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plat”, “parcel”, or “tract”;
   (G)   The word “shall” is always mandatory;
   (H)   The word “may” is permissive; and
   (I)   The word “used for” shall include the meaning “designed for”.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015)
§ 150.07 RESTRICTIONS AND RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   All lots within Section I of Riverside shall be a minimum of 15,000
square feet.
   (B)   All lots within Section I of the Riverside Subdivision shall be for
single-family residential purposes only.
   (C)   All such single-family dwelling shall be of stick built on site
construction. Stick built homes may be constructed on site as well as include
off-frame modular homes that meet State Building Code requirements. On-frame
modular homes and mobile homes are prohibited.
   (D)   Once construction of a building is begun, the exterior must be
completed within 12 months.
   (E)   No used materials shall be used or placed on the exterior portion of
any building erected on a lot and all exterior materials shall be wood, brick,
or aluminum or vinyl siding. (The term “wood” shall not include plain exterior
plywood sheeting.) An off-frame modular home may be permitted, having the
approval of the Planning Board that the home and its design fits into the
characteristics and existing atmosphere of the community.
   (F)   It is generally assumed that all stick built, single-family dwellings
will be constructed on site. If a previously constructed stick built dwelling
is to be placed on any lot in Section I of the Riverside Subdivision, approval
of the structure must be obtained from the Planning Board before such structure
may be placed on a lot.
   (G)   No more than one residential building shall be erected on any one lot.
   (H)   No building shall be placed or erected nearer than ten feet to the
side property lines, or for a corner lot, street side yard 15 feet or nearer
than 50 feet from the street right-of-way line on which the building is facing
or nearer than five feet to the rear property line.
   (I)   No bus or trailer bodies, shacks, or like structures shall be allowed
on any lot. No junk (unregistered) vehicles shall be allowed. No work shall be
performed on vehicles unless within the confines of a family garage.
   (J)   No tent, trailer, or recreational vehicle shall be placed on a lot and
used for residential purposes.
   (K)   No outside toilet facilities may be constructed or utilized. All
sanitary facilities must be constructed in accordance with generally recognized
good standards for health and meet local and state regulations. Septic tank and
well locations must be approved and comply with local health regulations.
   (L)   All buildings must obtain water from a public water system or an on
site well that meets the local health regulations.
   (M)   All buildings must derive their power source through underground
services. Storage tanks for oil or gas must be placed at the rear of a dwelling
so as to be best concealed from the road. Clotheslines or other clothes drying
facilities shall be placed at the rear of a dwelling.
   (N)   No horses, poultry, cattle, or other animals, with the exception of
usual household pets, shall be maintained or kept upon any lot. All dogs in the
subdivision must be kept on a leash or penned.
   (O)   Lot owners shall, at all times, maintain their lot in a well-kept
condition, freeing the lot of junk and excessive items. The lawn must be
maintained as to meet the overall standard of the community.
   (P)   Lots recorded prior to the Riverside I Subdivision Ordinance adopted
May 12, 1997 are grandfathered in.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021; Ord. passed 8-9-2021) Penalty,
see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.20 ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   The town’s Planning Board shall be the administrator of this chapter. The
Planning Board shall be responsible for lot and building approvals and any
other duties consistent with the administration of this chapter. The Planning
Board shall report any violations of any provisions of this chapter of which it
is aware to the Board of Aldermen with its recommendations to prevent and
remedy such violations. Any development approval granted by the Planning Board
shall be in writing. The town may issue development approvals in print or
electronic form. Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form
shall be protected from further editing once issued. Applications for
development approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding
an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the
landowner. Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits,
burdens, and obligations created by development approvals made pursuant to this
chapter attach to and run with the land.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 150.21 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen may, from time to time, amend the terms of this
chapter, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been
submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation, or proposed by
the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall have 30 days within which to
submit a report. If no report is submitted within the specified time, it shall
be deemed to have approved the amendment. The Board of Aldermen may adopt the
proposed amendment following a public hearing on the proposed amendment. All
such amendments shall be adopted by ordinance. Public hearing notice shall be
provided in accordance with G.S. § 160D-601.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 150.22 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any easement, covenant, deed restrictions, agreements, rules,
regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law. However,
where this chapter requires higher standards, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015)
§ 150.23 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. Where, because extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations, and/or
purposes and where these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, the Planning Board may approve variances to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations. No variance shall be
issued to alter the procedures of review as set forth herein. The Planning
Board shall not approve variances without a four out of five vote (80%) of the
Planning Board for each finding as indicated below by divisions (A)(1) through
(A)(4) below. Final approval of a variance must be by an 80% vote of the
Planning Board. The Planning Board shall not approve variances unless it shall
make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case
that:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
this chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance;
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, such that the public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Planning Board may require
such conditions as shall, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider to the Planning Board for review. The petition shall
state fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon by
the petitioner. No preliminary or final plat shall be approved until any
questions of variance to this chapter have been resolved. The notice of the
quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406
(b). The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406.
   (D)   Time applicability. Any variance granted under the terms of this
chapter shall expire 12 months from the date on which the variance was granted
in the event the plat has not been recorded.
   (E)   Appeal.
      (1)   A disapproval of a final plat or decision by the Planning Board may
be appealed to the Board of Aldermen by the subdivider of the plat within 30
days of the final decision, citing the grounds appealed from, at the office of
the Town Clerk with a copy of the appeal sent to the Planning Board at least
five working days before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of
Aldermen. The notice of the quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing shall be in
accordance with G.S. § 160D-406(b). The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with G.S. § 160D-406.
      (2)   Any decision made by the Board of Aldermen shall be in accordance
with G.S. § 160D-406(j).
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 150.24 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Board of Aldermen. A Board member shall not vote on any legislative
decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter
where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A
Board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the
property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment
is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed Boards. Members of appointed Boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person. No staff member shall be financially interested or
employed by a business that is financially interested in a development subject
to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the
land or building involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee
of a company contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the town, as determined by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any Board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change; undisclosed ex
parte communications; a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person; or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a Board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
Board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a "close familial
relationship" means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
CHAPTER 151: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Authority
   
151.004   Jurisdiction
   
151.005   Definitions
Prerequisite to Plat Recordation and Public Services
   
151.020   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
151.021   Approval of public services
Administration
   
151.035   Administration generally
   
151.036   Enforcement
   
151.037   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
151.038   Amendments
   
151.039   Abrogation
   
151.040   Variance
   
151.041   Approval of variances
   
151.042   Conflicts of interest
Compliance with Official Plans
   
151.055   Thoroughfare plan
   
151.056   Zoning ordinance
   
151.057   Land use plan
Review and Approval
   
151.070   Procedure for review
   
151.071   Requirements for approval of minor subdivision plats
   
151.072   Design standards
   
151.073   Pre-existing structures on lots less than one-half acre
   
151.074   Design standards for utilities
   
151.075   Design standards for erosion and sediment control
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Varnamtown Minor Subdivision
Ordinance” and hereinafter may be referred to as “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction of the
town. It is further designed to provide for the: orderly growth and development
of the town; coordination of streets and highways within proposed subdivisions
with existing or planned streets and highways and with other public facilities
such as water, sewer, and storm drainage lines; dedication or reservation of
recreational areas serving residents of the immediate neighboring within the
subdivision and of rights-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes;
and distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid
congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public
health, safety, and general welfare. This chapter is designed to further
facilitate adequate provision for water, sewerage, sanitary, or storm drainage,
parks, and also facilitate the further re-subdivision of larger tracts into
smaller parcels of land, that is to be offered to the town for dedication.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of the
G.S. Chapter 160D.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein shall govern each and every subdivision of
land within the town as provided in the G.S. Chapter 160D.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLEY. A minor right-of-way privately or publicly owned, primarily for
service access to the rear or side of properties.
      BLOCK. A piece of land bound by one or more streets, bodies of water,
railroads, or other physical barriers.
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The town’s Board of Aldermen shall act as a quasi-
judicial Board of Adjustments.
      BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The town’s Board of Aldermen.
      BUFFER STRIP. A spatial separation, features include, but not limited to,
earthen berms, water bodies, fences, and walls if of solid construction,
combinations of shrubs and trees for visual impairment, or combination of the
above. BUFFER STRIPS shall not be dedicated to or accepted by a governmental
unit, as they are strictly private features of a subdivision, excepting in such
special circumstances as the Board of Aldermen may determine that the public
purpose and public interest is best met by acceptance of an offer of
dedication. In order to plat BUFFER STRIPS, adequate plat language over
ownership, use and use rights, and maintenance responsibilities shall be
required.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line beyond
which no structure shall be erected. SETBACKS shall be calculated from the
right-of-way line.
      CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A
lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street closed at one end, being 45 feet in width, but at
said end having a provision for convenient turnaround maneuvering of vehicles.
      DEDICATION. An appropriation of land to some public use made by the owner
thereof and accepted for such use by or on behalf of the public. Because a
transfer of property rights is entailed, DEDICATION must be made by written
instrument, land when the gift is for a public purpose, must be in fee simple.
A DEDICATION is accomplished by an acceptance from the Board of Aldermen.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner or subdivider of a parcel of land
for specified purpose(s) and use by a political subdivision, franchised public
utility company, or an agent authorized by either, for any lawful purpose
including, but not limited to, installation and maintenance of utilities,
ingress or egress, and drainage of lands.
      FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE. Reduced desirability and usefulness of a structure
because its design and construction have become obsolete; not in keeping with
modern needs.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. The following relationships, whether by birthright or
adoption: mother; father; son; daughter; grandmother; grandfather; grandson;
granddaughter; mother-in-law; father-in-law; son-in-law; and/or daughter-in-
law.
      INTERIOR LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be
referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
      LOCAL ROAD/STREET. A road with a 45-foot width right-of-way that serves
primarily to provide access to adjacent land and for travel over relatively
short distances.
      LOT. Any portion, piece, division, or parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership, or for development, or both. Lot depth and lot width
shall be determined by the definition of lot depth and lot width as defined in
this chapter.
      LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoints of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rear most
points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear
lot lines at each side of the lot measured parallel to a line established by
joining the foremost points of the side lot lines and at half the depth of the
lot.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision of land into six or more lots, or that
which does not meet the definitional requirements of a minor subdivision.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract of land into not more than
five lots. Only one MINOR SUBDIVISION will be permitted from an existing parcel
of land within a one-year period. All lots in a MINOR SUBDIVISION shall have
easements for streets, rights-of-way, whether public or private, that are at
least 30 feet in width.
      MINOR EXPEDITED SUBDIVISION. The division of one existing parcel of land
under single ownership that is not exempt per G.S. § 160D-802(a):
         (a)   Where no part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been
divided in the ten years prior to the proposed division;
         (b)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres;
         (c)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division
and all resultant lots comply with all lot dimension size requirements of the
applicable zoning district and the use of the lots is in conformity with the
applicable zoning district; and
         (d)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each.
      OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board
of Aldermen as a guide to the physical development of the town.
      OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
      PLAN. Any document and approved program of recommended action, policy
intention, and the like, which sets forth goals and objectives along with
criteria, standards, and implementing procedures necessary for effectively
guiding and controlling decisions relative to facilitating development and
growth management.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A permitted use designed to provide for
development incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and related
uses which are planned and developed as a unit. Such development may consist of
individual lots or common building sites. Common land must be an element of the
plan related to or affecting the long-term value of the entire development.
      PLANNING BOARD. The town’s Planning Board acts as an advisory to the
town’s Board of Adjustments and may administer adjustments up to 10% in
variations of the stated code. Adjustments beyond 10% must be approved by the
town’s Board of Adjustments. The PLANNING BOARD is made up of two members of
the Board of Aldermen and three members of the community appointed by the Board
of Aldermen.
      PLAT. A map, plan, or plat of a parcel of land:
         (a)   Whether such map, plan, or plat be in the form of a plat map
sufficient so as to meet all requirements for recordation in the public
registry;
         (b)   Whether the map, plan, or plat be an exhibit to, or citation in,
any other document sufficient so as to meet all requirements for recordation in
the public registry; or
         (c)   Whether it be any description of a parcel of land by metes and
bounds if said metes and bounds are derived from a map or plan or plat of a
parcel of land otherwise subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      PRE-EXISTING STRUCTURE. A structure for the purpose of a single-family
dwelling that was constructed prior to the approval of the town’s Minor
Subdivision Ordinance effective on November 8, 2010.
      PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites, or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
      PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way which affords access
to abutting properties and requires a subdivision street disclosure statements
in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A wastewater treatment system serving two
or more dwelling units and approved by the County Health Department or the
state’s Department of Natural and Economic Resources, Division of Environmental
Management, or appropriate agent of the state.
      PUBLIC STREET. A public right-of-way which affords access to abutting
properties and when such rights-of-way are designated as public, it shall be
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public. All PUBLIC STREETS shall
be designed and constructed as to meet minimum right-of-way and construction
standards for acceptance into the state secondary roads system in accordance
with G.S. § 136-102.6(c). The following classification shall apply.
         (a)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides services to small local
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
         (b)   THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way of minimum 60 feet which connects
to a S.R., N.C., or U.S. designated roadway and is the major road for ingress
and egress to a major subdivision.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to one or
more residences or businesses, or combination of residences or businesses.
Approval by the Sanitary Engineering Division State Board of Health, Department
of Human Resources, or appropriate agent of the state.
      RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate such activities.
      RESERVATION. An identification of land for development at a future date.
      RESERVE STRIP. A strip of property for the purpose of denying traffic,
utility, or other such connections, transfers, or flows between two pieces of
property. Such strips are prohibited.
      REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right angle or
approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to the
general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner lot,
an interior lot, or a through lot.
      SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
      STRUCTURE. Anything built, erected, or constructed that is walled or
roofed or a gas or liquid storage tank that is primarily above ground.
STRUCTURE does not include swimming pools, utility poles, fences, uncovered
patios and decks.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, or partnership, or corporation which
subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of any single tract or parcel of land into two
or more lots, buildings sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or
building development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all
divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in
existing streets; but the following shall not be included within these
definitions, nor be subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this
chapter:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in this chapter;
         (b)   Division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of the town as shown in this chapter; and
         (e)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 129.
      TOWN. The Town of Varnamtown, a municipal corporation of the state.
      WATERFRONT LOT. Land abutting a river.
   (B)   Word interpretations. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words
shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense;
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural;
      (3)   Words used in the plural number include the singular, unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise;
      (4)   The “person” includes firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust and company, as well as individual;
      (5)   The word “structure” shall include the word “building”;
      (6)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “parcel”, or
“tract”;
      (7)   The word “shall” is always mandatory;
      (8)   The word “may” is permissive; and
      (9)   The word “used for” shall include the meaning “designed for”.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021; Ord. passed 8-9-2021)
PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION AND PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 151.020 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision plat
of land within the jurisdiction of the town shall be approved by the town’s
Planning Board in accordance with the procedures for submission and approval as
set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.021 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   No construction permits shall be issued, nor shall water, sewer, sanitary,
or storm, or other town or county facilities or services be extended to, or
connected with, any major or minor subdivision for which a plat is required to
be approved unless, and until, such final plat has been approved by the town’s
Planning Board and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.035 ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Board shall be the administrator of this chapter.
The Planning Board shall be responsible for plat approvals and any other duties
consistent with the administration of this chapter. The Planning Board shall
report any violations of any provisions of this chapter, of which it is aware,
to the Board of Aldermen with its recommendation to prevent and remedy such
violations.
   Any development approval granted by the Planning Board shall be in writing.
The town may issue development approvals in print or electronic form. Any
development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be protected
from further editing once issued. Applications for development approvals may be
made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to
purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner. Unless
provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens, and
obligations created by development approvals made pursuant to this chapter
attach to and run with the land.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, no subdivision plat of land
within the jurisdiction of the town shall be filed or recorded until it has
been submitted to and approved by the town’s Planning Board, and until this
approval is entered in writing on the face of the plat by the signatures of the
Town Clerk and Mayor.
   (C)   The County Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat or
subdivision of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town
that has not been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the
Clerk of Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording would be in conflict with this section.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.036 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Register of Deeds, after the effective date of this chapter,
shall not permit the recordation of any subdivision plat of land unless such
plat has been submitted to and approved by the town’s Planning Board in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. After the effective date of
this chapter, the County Register of Deeds shall not permit the recordation of
any deed of land transfer until a map of the land and parcel number has been
assigned to the parcel of land for which the deed was drawn by the County Tax
Supervisor’s office and such number is indicated on the deed. Recordation of
the plat shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of proper approval of the
subdivision plat in compliance with the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.037 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   The approval of a plat pursuant to this chapter, shall not be deemed to
constitute or effect the acceptance by the town of the dedication or
maintenance of any such facility. Acceptance, dedication, or maintenance of any
such facility by the town shall require a resolution of acceptance and/or
maintenance by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.038 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen may, from time to time, amend the terms of this
chapter. No amendment shall become effective unless it has been submitted to
the town’s Planning Board for review. The Planning Board shall have 30 days
within which to submit a report. If the Planning Board does not submit a report
within the specified time, it shall be deemed to have the approval of the
amendment. All such amendments shall be adopted by ordinance following a public
hearing. Public hearing notice shall be provided in accordance with G.S. §
160D-601.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.039 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easement, covenant, deed restrictions, agreements,
rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law.
However, where this chapter requires higher standards, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
§ 151.040 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Where, because extraordinary hardships or practical difficulties may
result from strict compliance with these regulations and/or purposes, and where
these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an alternative proposal,
the town’s Board of Adjustments may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations. The notice of the quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406(b). The hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406.
   (B)   No variance shall be issued to alter the procedures of review as set
forth herein.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustments shall not approve variances unless the Board
shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific
case that:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance;
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.041 APPROVAL OF VARIANCES.
   The Board of Adjustments may require such conditions as shall, in its
judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements
of this chapter.
   (A)   Procedures. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider to the Board of Adjustments for review. The petition
shall state fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon
by the petitioner. The Board of Adjustments shall make the final decision as to
whether the variance(s) are, or are not, justified and for what reason and, if
justified, under what terms and conditions. The concurring vote of four-fifths
of the Board shall be necessary to grant a variance. No preliminary or final
plat shall be approved until any questions of variances have been resolved.
   (B)   Time applicability. Any variance granted under the terms of this
chapter shall expire 12 months from the date on which the variance was granted,
in the event the plat has not been recorded.
   (C)   Appeal. Any final decision by the town’s Planning Board may be
appealed to the Board of Aldermen within 30 days following the decision. The
notice of the quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing shall be in accordance with
G.S. § 160D-406(b). The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. §
160D-406(b).
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.042 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Board of Aldermen. A Board member shall not vote on any legislative
decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter
where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A
Board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the
property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment
is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed Boards. Members of appointed Boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person. No staff member shall be financially interested or
employed by a business that is financially interested in a development subject
to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the
land or building involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee
of a company contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the town, as determined by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any Board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change; undisclosed ex
parte communications; a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person; or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a Board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
Board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a "close familial
relationship" means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLANS
§ 151.055 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   Where a proposal subdivision includes any part of a proposed thoroughfare
which has been designated as such on an officially adopted thoroughfare plan
for the town, all parts of such thoroughfare shall be platted by the subdivider
in the location shown on the plan and at the right-of-way width specified in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.056 ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Where a proposed subdivision is located in an area in which the Board of
Aldermen have adopted a zoning ordinance and zoning map, said subdivision must
comply in all respects with the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.057 LAND USE PLAN.
   Where a proposed subdivision is located in an area which is included in the
land use plan as adopted by the Board of Aldermen, such subdivision must comply
with any use or density requirements as adopted.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 151.070 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision of land meets the definition of a
minor subdivision as included in §
151.005, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Board two copies of a
surveyed plat which shall meet the requirements set forth in this subchapter.
The Planning Board shall review the plat for compliance with said requirements
for the approval of the minor subdivision plats. A minor subdivision plat shall
not be approved unless it complies with the requirements of this chapter. When
a minor subdivision plat has met the requirements for approval, the Planning
Board Chairperson shall sign his or her signature of approval on the face of
the plat and submit the plat to the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk and the Mayor
shall indicate final approval by their signatures and/or official seal of the
town.
   (B)   For qualifying, expedited minor subdivisions to be approved
administratively by the Mayor, only a final plat for recordation is required.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 151.071 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Plat prepared. The minor subdivision plat shall be prepared by or
under the supervision of a land surveyor that is licensed and registered to
practice in the state.
   (B)   Number of copies and graphic media. Two copies of the minor
subdivision shall be submitted to the Planning Board for approval. The copies
should be on media paper that meets the standards of the office of the County
Register of Deeds.
   (C)   Scale. Minor subdivision plats shall be prepared at a scale of one
inch equals 100 feet, one inch equals 200 feet, or one inch equals 50 feet as a
permitted scale. Plat to be recorded by the County Register of Deeds must be 18
inches by 24 inches.
   (D)   Certification of proposed utilities. Minor subdivision plats shall be
accompanied by a letter from the County Health Director, or designee, stating
that the proposed water supply and sewage disposal would feasibly meet existing
adopted standards for minimum health safety. Any minor subdivision plats, or
portion thereof, not receiving this certification shall be affixed with the
below notation prior to receiving approval:
 
Note:  The water/sewage system(s) for this parcel has not received Brunswick
County Health Department Certification for meeting health standards. Such
certification must be obtained prior to the use of this parcel(s) for human
habitation.
 
   (E)   Contents required. The minor subdivision plat shall depict or contain
the following information:
      (1)   Name of owner, address, and telephone number;
      (2)   Name of township, county, and state in which the subdivision is
located;
      (3)   Approximate limits, township boundaries, county lines, and state
lines, as appropriate;
      (4)   Name registration number and seal of the land surveyor who prepared
the plat or under whose supervision it was prepared;
      (5)   A statement signed by the land surveyor or person preparing the
plat, or under whose supervision it was prepared, showing the source of the
information depicted on the plat (whether actual survey or from recorded
deeds). The signature on this statement shall be certified as true by a notary
public or Clerk of Superior Court;
      (6)   Scale indicated in words or numbers and a bar graph north arrow
with indication whether true grid of magnetic and date of magnetic reading;
      (7)   Length and bearing of all existing and proposed property lines
including the boundaries of any parcels being created by division and showing
the location of the two consecutive property corners marked with a permanent
monument; said markers shall be of concrete four inches in diameter, 30 inches
in length, and set a minimum of 24 inches in the ground;
      (8)   Date of plat preparation;
      (9)   Zoning classification when applicable;
      (10)   A sketch or vicinity map (with scale and north arrow) depicting
the surrounding area. The vicinity map is to determine the approximate location
of the subdivision and not to fix the absolute beginning point of said
subdivision;
      (11)   Written description of the proposed utility systems (water and
sewer) (i.e., on site well and septic tank, public water supply and public
sewerage system, and the like);
      (12)   Existing roads, watercourses, railroads, bridges, culverts, storm
drains, and drainage ditches;
      (13)   Identify adjoining properties and recorded plats;
      (14)   Proposed surface and sub-surface drainage systems;
      (15)   Reference to any existing easements, rights-of-way;
      (16)   Utility easements shall be granted on final plats; and
      (17)   A statement signed by the local Coastal Area Management Act Permit
Officer stating that the proposed subdivision site plan conforms with the
policies and procedures of the Coastal Area Management Act of the state, when
part of said subdivision is within an area of environmental concern as defined
by the Coastal Resources Commission and the Coastal Area Management Act.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.072 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General design. All minor subdivisions shall be designed so as to
minimize flood damage to any lots, building, or other facilities within the
development.
   (B)   Building setback lines. All minor subdivisions shall show minimum
setback lines as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: 50 feet;
      (2)   Side yard: ten feet;
      (3)   Street side yard, (corner lot): 15 feet; and
      (4)   Rear yard: five feet.
   (C)   Lot size. Minimum lot size shall be one-half acre (21,780 square
feet).
   (D)   Height. Structures erected on waterfront property shall be limited to
36 feet from the average ground level of the lot on which the structure is
erected.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.073 PRE-EXISTING STRUCTURES ON LOTS LESS THAN ONE-HALF ACRE.
   In the event an existing structure for the purpose of a single dwelling is
deemed to be functionally obsolete by the Planning Board due to, but not
limited to, fire, natural disasters, and age of structure, the structure may be
replaced and the lot size requirement provided by this chapter does not apply.
However, the replacement structure must comply with all other design standards
as described in this chapter. The county rules and regulations regarding
necessary permits, including, but not limited to, water and sewer also apply.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.074 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utilities in a subdivision, including water systems, storm or
sanitary systems, gas lines, and electrical distribution facilities shall be
designed and constructed so as to eliminate or minimize flood damage to those
facilities.
   (B)   All water supply and storm or sanitary systems within a proposed minor
subdivision shall be designed so as to eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and to eliminate discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   Utility (electric) and telephone poles and any other similar
facilities shall not be placed closer than one foot to the outside corner of
any property and should be placed within the road right-of-way so as to
facilitate surveying and prevent the destruction of survey property markers.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.075 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   All minor subdivisions shall be constructed in compliance with the G.S.
Chapter 113A, Article 4 (Sediment Pollution Control Act of 1973).
   (A)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided in all minor
subdivisions so that exposure to flood hazards will be a minimum.
   (B)   Streets. All minor subdivisions shall have a minimum of 30-foot
rights-of-way for streets whether designated public or private.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010; Ord. passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, if a person who is the owner or
agent of the owner of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of this
chapter, subdivides his or her land in violation of this chapter, or transfers
or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or by any other use of, a plat
showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly approved
under this chapter, and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds,
he or she shall be fined no more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days, or as otherwise may be provided by the G.S. § 14-4. The description by
metes and bounds, in the instrument of transfer, or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from
this penalty. The town’s Planning Board may bring an action for injunction of
any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land, and for an
order requiring the offending party to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 152: MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Jurisdiction
   
152.005   Definitions
   
152.006   Word interpretation
Prerequisite to Plat Recordation and Public Services
   
152.020   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
152.021   Approval of public services
Administration
   
152.035   Administration generally
   
152.036   Enforcement
   
152.037   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
152.038   Guarantees of improvement
   
152.039   Amendments
   
152.040   Abrogation
   
152.041   Variances
   
152.042   Conflicts of interest
Compliance with Official Plans
   
152.055   Thoroughfare plan
   
152.056   Zoning ordinance
   
152.057   Land use plan
Review and Approval
   
152.070   Procedure for review
   
152.071   Requirements for approval of subdivision plats
Required Improvements and Minimum Design Standards
   
152.085   Required improvements
   
152.086   Design standards
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Control Corners in Real Estate Developments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Varnamtown Major Subdivision
Ordinance” and hereinafter may be referred to as “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards
for the development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction
of the town.
   (B)   It is further designed to provide for: orderly growth and development
of the town; coordination of streets and highways within proposed subdivisions
with existing or planned streets and highways and with other public facilities
such as water, sewer, and storm drainage lines; dedication or reservation of
recreation areas serving residents of the immediate neighboring within the
subdivision and of rights-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes;
and distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid
congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (C)   This chapter is designed to further facilitate adequate provision for
water, sewerage, sanitary or storm drainage, parks, schools, and playgrounds,
and also facilitate the further re-subdivision of larger tracts into smaller
parcels of land, that is to be offered to the town for dedication.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S.
Chapter 160D.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 152.004 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein shall govern each and every major
subdivision of land in the town as provided in G.S. Chapter 160D.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way privately or publicly owned, primarily for
service access to the rear or side of properties.
   BLOCK. A piece of land bound by one or more streets, bodies of water,
railroads, or other physical barriers.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS. The town’s Planning Board shall act as a quasi-
judicial Board of Adjustments.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The town’s Board of Aldermen. The Board of Aldermen also
serves as the Board of Appeals.
   BUFFER STRIP. A spatial separation, features include, but are not limited
to, earthen berms, water bodies, fences, and walls if of solid construction,
combinations of shrubs, and trees for visual impairment, or combination of the
above. BUFFER STRIPS shall not be dedicated to, or accepted by, a governmental
unit, as they are strictly private features of a subdivision, excepting in such
special circumstances as the Board of Aldermen may determine that the public
purpose and public interest is best met by acceptance of an offer of
dedication. In order to plat BUFFER STRIPS, adequate plat language over
ownership, use and use rights, and maintenance responsibilities shall be
required.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line beyond
which no structure shall be erected. SETBACKS shall be calculated from the
street right-of-way line.
   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street closed at one end, being 45 feet in width, but at said
end having a provision for convenience turnaround maneuvering of vehicles.
   DEDICATION. An appropriation of land to some public use made by the owner
thereof and accepted for such use by or on behalf of the public. Because a
transfer of property rights is entailed, DEDICATION must be made by written
instrument. When the gift of land is for a public purpose, it must be in fee
simple. A DEDICATION is accomplished by an acceptance from the Board of
Aldermen.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner or subdivider of a parcel of land
for specified purpose(s) and use by a political subdivision, franchised public
utility company, or an agent authorized by either, for any lawful purpose
including, but not limited to, installation and maintenance of utilities,
ingress or egress, and drainage of lands.
   INTERIOR LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be
referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   LOCAL ROAD/STREET. A road with a 45-foot width right-of-way that serves
primarily to provide access to adjacent land and for travel over relatively
short distances.
   LOT. Any portion, piece, division, or parcel of land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership, or for development, or both. LOT depth and LOT width
shall be determined by the definition of LOT depth and LOT width as defined in
this chapter.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoints of straight lines connecting
the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rear most points of
the side lot lines in the rear.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear lot
lines at each of the lot measured parallel to a line established by joining the
foremost points of the side lot lines and at half the depth of the lot.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract of land into six or more lots, or
that which does not meet the definitional requirements of a minor subdivision.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Aldermen as a guide to the physical development of the town.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PLAN. Any document and approved program of recommended action, policy
intention, and the like, which sets forth goals and objectives along with
criteria, standards, and implementing procedures necessary for effectively
guiding and controlling decisions relative to facilitating development and
growth management.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A permitted use designed to provide for
development incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and related
uses which are planned and developed as a unit. Such development may consist of
individual lots or common building sites. Common land must be an element of the
plan related to or affecting the long-term value of the entire development.
   PLANNING BOARD. The PLANNING BOARD is made up of two members of the Board of
Aldermen and three members of the community appointed by the Board of Aldermen.
The PLANNING BOARD acts as a quasi-judicial Board of Adjustments.
   PLAT. A map, plan, or plat of a parcel of land:
      (1)   Whether such map, plan, or plat be in the form of a plat map
sufficient so as to meet all requirements for recordation in the public
registry;
      (2)   Whether the map, plan, or plat be an exhibit to or citation in any
other document sufficient so as to meet all requirements for recordation in the
public registry; or
      (3)   Whether it be any description of a parcel of land by metes and
bounds if said metes and bounds are derived from a map or plan or plat of a
parcel of land otherwise subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way with a minimum width of
30 feet which affords access to abutting properties.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A wastewater treatment system serving two or
more dwelling units and approved by the County Health Department and/or the
state’s Department of Natural and Economic Resources, Division of Environmental
Management, or appropriate agent of the state.
   PUBLIC STREET. A public right-of-way which affords access to abutting
properties and when such rights-of-way are designated as public, it shall be
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public. All PUBLIC STREETS shall
be designed and constructed as to meet minimum right-of-way and construction
standards for acceptance into the state secondary roads system in accordance
with G.S. § 136-102.6(a). The following classification shall apply.
      (a)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides services to small local
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
      (b)   THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way of minimum 60 feet in width which
connects to a S.R., N.C., or U.S. designated roadway and is the major road for
ingress and egress to a major subdivision.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to one or
more residences or businesses, or combination of residences or businesses.
Approval by the Sanitary Engineering Division State Board of Health, Department
of Human Resources, or appropriate agent of the state.
   RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate such activities.
   RESERVATION. An identification of land for development at a future date.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of property for the purpose of denying traffic,
utility, or other such connections, transfers, or flows between two pieces of
property. Such strips are prohibited.
   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right angle or
approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to the
general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner lot,
an interior lot or a through lot.
   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built, erected, or constructed that is walled or roofed
or a gas or liquid storage tank that is primarily above ground. STRUCTURE does
not include swimming pools, utility poles, fences, uncovered patios and decks.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, or partnership, or corporation which
subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of any single tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots, buildings sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or
building development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all
divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in
existing streets; but the following shall not be included within these
definitions, nor be subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this
chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in this chapter;
      (2)   Division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town as shown in this chapter; and
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 129.
   TOWN. The Town of Varnamtown, a municipal corporation of the state.
   WATERFRONT LOT. Land abutting a body of water.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021; Ord. passed 8-9-2021)
§ 152.006 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense;
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural;
   (C)   Words used in the plural number include the singular, unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise;
   (D)   The “person” includes firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust, and company, as well as individual;
   (E)   The word “structure” shall include the word “building”;
   (F)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “parcel”, or “tract”;
   (G)   The word “shall” is always mandatory;
   (H)   The word “may” is permissive; and
   (I)   The word “used for” shall include the meaning “designed for”.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION AND PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 152.020 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision plat
of land within the jurisdiction of the town shall be approved by the town’s
Planning Board in accordance with the procedures for submission and approval as
set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
§ 152.021 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   No construction permits shall be issued, nor shall water, sewer, sanitary,
or storm, or other county facilities or services be extended to, or connected
with, any major or minor subdivision for which a plat is required to be
approved unless, and until, such final plat has been approved by the town’s
Planning Board and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.035 ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Board shall be the administrator of this chapter.
The Planning Board shall be responsible for plat approvals and any other duties
consistent with the administration of this chapter. The Planning Board shall
report any violations of any provisions of this chapter, of which it is aware,
to the town’s Board of Aldermen with its recommendation to prevent and remedy
such violations. Any development approval granted by the Planning Board shall
be in writing. The town may issue development approvals in print or electronic
form. Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be
protected from further editing once issued. Applications for development
approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or
contract to purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner.
Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens,
and obligations created by development approvals made pursuant to this chapter
attach to and run with the land.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, no subdivision plat of land
within the jurisdiction of the town shall be filed or recorded until it has
been submitted to and approved by the town’s Planning Board, and until this
approval is entered in writing on the face of the plat by the signatures of the
town’s Planning Board Chairperson and the Mayor with the town’s seal.
   (C)   The County Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat or
subdivision of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town
that has not been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the
Clerk of Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording would be in conflict with this section.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 152.036 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Register of Deeds, after the effective date of this chapter,
shall not permit the recordation of any subdivision plat of land unless such
plat has been submitted to, and approved by, the town’s Planning Board in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. After the effective date of
this chapter, the County Register of Deeds shall not permit the recordation of
any deed of land transfer until a map of the land and parcel number has been
assigned to the parcel of land for which the deed was drawn by the County Tax
Supervisor’s office and such number is indicated on the deed. Recordation of
the plat shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of proper approval of the
subdivision plat in compliance with the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
§ 152.037 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   The approval of a plat pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed to
constitute or effect the acceptance by the town of the dedication or
maintenance of any street or other land areas, public utility line, or other
public facility shown on the plat. Acceptance of the dedication or maintenance
of any such facility shall require a resolution of acceptance and/or
maintenance by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
§ 152.038 GUARANTEES OF IMPROVEMENT.
   Final plats of subdivision may be approved by the Planning Board after the
subdivider has complied with one of the following procedures:
   (A)   All required improvements have been installed by the subdivider in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
   (B)   A surety bond or certified check has been posted by the subdivider,
payable to the town upon default, in an amount not to exceed 125% of the
reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time of performance guarantee to
assure installation of the required improvements. The guarantee shall be in
accordance with G.S. § 160D-804.1; or
   (C)   An irrevocable letter of credit, in a form approved by the Town
Attorney, issued by a bank or other lending institution or a deposit of funds
in escrow may be accepted in lieu of bond or check under the same terms and
conditions as provided in G.S. § 160D-804.1.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 152.039 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen may, from time to time, amend the terms of this
chapter, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been
submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation. The Planning
Board shall have 30 days within which to submit a report within the specified
time. If no response is given by the Planning Board within the specified time,
the amendment shall be deemed to have the approval of the Planning Board. All
such amendments shall be adopted by ordinance following a public hearing.
Public hearing notice shall be provided in accordance with G.S. § 160D-601.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 152.040 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenant, deed restrictions, agreements,
rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law.
However, where this chapter requires higher standards, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
§ 152.041 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. Where, because extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations, and/or
purposes and where these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, the Planning Board may approve variances to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations. No variance shall be
issued to alter the procedures of review as set forth herein. The Planning
Board shall not approve variances without a four out of five (80%) vote of the
Planning Board for each finding as indicated below by divisions (A)(1), (A)(2),
(A)(3), and (A)(4) below. Final approval of a variance must be by an 80% vote
of the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall not approve variances unless it
shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific
case that:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
this chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance;
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship;
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Planning Board may require
such conditions as shall, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider to the Planning Board for review. The petition shall
state fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon by
the petitioner. No preliminary or final plat shall be approved until any
questions of variance to this chapter have been resolved. The notice of the
quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406
(b). The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406.
   (D)   Time applicability. Any variance granted under the terms of this
chapter shall expire 12 months from the date on which the variance was granted,
in the event the plat has not been recorded.
   (E)   Appeal. 
      (1)   A disapproval of a final plat by the Planning Board or a decision
by the Planning Board may be appealed to the Board of Aldermen by the
subdivider of the plat within 30 days of the final decision, citing the grounds
appealed from, at the office of the Town Clerk with a copy of the appeal sent
to the Town Planning Board at least five working days before the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Aldermen. The notice of the quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406(b). The hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406.
      (2)   Any decision made by the Board of Aldermen shall be in accordance
with G.S. § 160D-406(j).
   (F)   Grandfathering.
      (1)   Any plat for which preliminary plat approval was granted under the
former Major Subdivision Ordinance shall have 12 months from the date of that
preliminary plat approval to be recorded.
      (2)   If not recorded within that 12-month period, the land involved must
be developed in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 152.042 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Board of Aldermen. A Board member shall not vote on any legislative
decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter
where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A
Board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the
property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment
is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed Boards. Members of appointed Boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person. No staff member shall be financially interested or
employed by a business that is financially interested in a development subject
to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the
land or building involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee
of a company contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the town, as determined by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any Board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change; undisclosed ex
parte communications; a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person; or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a Board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member docs not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
Board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a "close familial
relationship" means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLANS
§ 152.055 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of a proposed thoroughfare
which has been designated as such on an officially adopted thoroughfare plan
for the town, all parts of such thoroughfare shall be platted by the subdivider
in the location shown on the plan and the right-of-way width specified as in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056 ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Where a proposed subdivision is located in an area in which the Board of
Aldermen have adopted a zoning ordinance and zoning map, said subdivision must
comply in all respects with the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 LAND USE PLAN.
   Where a proposed subdivision is located in an area which is included in the
land use plan as adopted by the Board of Aldermen, such subdivision must comply
with any use or density requirements as adopted.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013) Penalty, see §
152.999
REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 152.070 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Sketch design plan for review.
      (1)   Whenever a proposed subdivision of land meets the definition of a
major subdivision as included in §
152.005 of this chapter, the subdivider may elect to submit two copies of a
sketch design plan to the Planning Board, which shall meet the requirements of
this chapter set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   At the Planning Board meeting following submission of the sketch
design plan, the subdivider or authorized agent shall, if the Planning Board
requests, meet with the Planning Board. The purpose of this meeting shall be to
provide an opportunity to discuss the proposed development with the Planning
Board and to become familiar with the regulations affecting the subdivision of
land in the town.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall review the sketch design plan for general
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the zoning ordinance
(where applicable). The Planning Board shall inform the subdivider or agent of
the technical services which are available within the county government to
assist in the design and preparation of the plat. The Planning Board shall
advise the subdivider or his or her agent of the regulations pertaining to the
proposed subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and
submission of the plat.
      (4)   This review shall in no way be construed as constituting an
official action of approval of the subdivision by the Planning Board as
required by this chapter.
      (5)   One copy of the sketch design plan shall be retained as an official
record of the Planning Board with the other copy being returned to the
subdivider or his or her agent.
      (6)   Preliminary approval of final plat.
         (a)   Whenever a proposed subdivision of land meets the definition of
a major subdivision as included in §
151.005 of this chapter, the subdivider or his or her agent shall submit three
copies of the plat, and any supplementary materials to the Planning Board at
least 14 days prior to a scheduled meeting of the Planning Board. Upon receipt
by the Planning Board, it shall review the plat for compliance with this
chapter (where applicable). If the plat meets the requirements of this chapter
and is approved, the Planning Board Chairperson shall place his or her
signature with the date of signature on three copies of the plat and shall be
signed by the Mayor. One signed copy shall be retained by the Planning Board.
Two signed copies shall be given to the subdivider.
         (b)   If the plat is disapproved, the Planning Board shall specify
such reasons in writing, citing the specific sections of this chapter upon
which the disapproval was based.
         (c)   One copy of these reasons for disapproval shall be forwarded to
the subdivider or his or her agent by registered mail (return receipt
requested), and one copy shall be retained as an official record of the
Planning Board. The Planning Board shall submit one copy to the Board of
Aldermen prior to the next meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
         (d)   All conditions set forth in the conditional approval must be met
before the Planning Board will consider approval of the final plat.
   (B)   Improvements. Upon approval or conditional approval of the plat by the
Planning Board, the subdivider may proceed with the installation of, or
arrangements for, the required improvements of this chapter.
   (C)   Prior to recording or selling of lots.
      (1)   Upon installation of, or arrangement for, the required improvements
the subdivider shall submit a final plat, so labeled, to the Planning Board not
more than 12 months after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved
or conditionally approved. If a final plat is not submitted within 12 months
after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved, the preliminary
approval or conditional approval shall be null and void, and the preliminary
plat must be resubmitted in accordance with division (B) above.
      (2)   A final plat may include the total or portions of the area included
on the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. Any and all such
portions must fully comply with the requirements for approval of a final plat
as set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall review the final plat for consistency with
the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat and for compliance with
the requirements for final plats as set forth in this subchapter.
      (4)   Upon presentation of the final plat to the Planning Board, if the
improvements required under §§
152.070 and
152.071 are not complete, the developer shall file a certificate asserting to
the Planning Board that these improvements will be installed by the developer
upon the following schedule:
         (a)   At the point the developer has sold either by deed of contract
25% of the lots in the proposed subdivision, he or she shall have in place a
minimum of 25% of the required improvements;
         (b)   At the point the developer has sold either by deed or sales
contract 50% of the lots in the proposed subdivision, he or she shall have a
minimum of 50% of the required improvements in place; and
         (c)   At the point the developer has sold either by deed or sales
contract 75% of the lots in the proposed subdivision, he or she shall have 100%
of the required improvements in place.
      (5)   The developer shall also file a certificate with the final plat
asserting that he or she will comply with the street disclosure statement as
required in G.S. § 136-102.6 and shall further provide to the Planning Board at
such time a copy of the street disclosure statement, which he or she will use
to comply with the certification.
      (6)   When the final plat is found to be consistent with the approved or
conditionally approved plat and to contain the required information and
material, the Planning Board Chairperson and the Mayor shall place their
signatures and date of signatures on the final plat with the town’s seal.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.071 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Sketch design plan.
      (1)   Number of copies and graphic media. A minimum of three copies of a
sketch design plan shall be submitted. No specific graphic media must be
employed.
      (2)   Scale. Sketch design plans shall be prepared at a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet or one inch equals 50 feet.
      (3)   Plat preparation. It is not required that the sketch design plan be
prepared by a registered land surveyor. The subdivider or another individual
may prepare this plan so long as it meets the requirements set forth in this
section.
      (4)   Contents required. The sketch design plan shall depict or contain
the following information:
         (a)   A sketch vicinity map indicating the location of the proposed
subdivision in relating to neighboring tracts, subdivision, waterways, the
intersection of two state maintained roads, and town boundaries;
         (b)   The boundaries of the entire tract of land from which the
division is being made and boundaries of the portion to be divided;
         (c)   Total estimated acreage to be subdivided;
         (d)   The estimated number of lots being created and the estimated
average lot size;
         (e)   The existing and proposed uses of land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
         (f)   Proposed lot layout;
         (g)   Name of proposed subdivision, if any, or other identification;
         (h)   Name, address, and telephone number of property owners;
         (i)   Book and page number of each deed on record for present owner
(last deed in chain of title); and map, if any, of tract being subdivided;
         (j)   Streets of adjacent, developed, or platted properties;
         (k)   Zoning classification, if applicable, of the tract being
subdivided and the adjacent properties;
         (l)   Existing and proposed easements, rights-of-way, restrictive of
negative covenants;
         (m)   North arrow; scale denoted in words or figures and bar graph;
and
         (n)   Description of proposed utilities (water, sewerage, storm, or
sanitary).
   (B)   Preliminary approval of final plat.
      (1)   Number of copies and graphic media. A minimum of three copies of
the plat shall be submitted. No specific graphic media must be employed.
      (2)   Scale. Plats shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals 100
feet, one inch equals 200 feet, or one inch equals 50 feet.
      (3)   Certification of proposed utilities. Plats submitted for
preliminary approval shall be accompanied by a letter from the County Health
Director, or designee, stating that the proposed utility system (water supply
and sewage disposal) would feasibly meet existing adopted standards for minimum
health safety. In case of situations in which the proposed utility system does
not come under the regulatory authority of the County Board of Health, such
certification must be provided by the state’s Division of Environmental
Management or appropriate state agency. Any major subdivision plat, or portion
thereof, not receiving this certification shall be affixed with the below
notation (on final plat) prior to receiving the town’s Planning Board
signatures of approval:
 
Note:  The water/sewerage system for this parcel has not received County Health
Department/N.C. Division of Environmental Manage Certification for meeting
minimum health standards. Such certification must be obtained prior to the use
of this parcel for human habitation.
 
      (4)   Certification of proposed public streets. Plats submitted for
preliminary approval shall be accompanied by a letter from the state’s
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, District Engineer stating
that all proposed streets intended for public use meet minimum design standards
for subdivision streets as set forth by the State Secondary Roads Council, in
accordance with G.S. § 135-102.6(c). Street dedications which do not meet state
standards must be shown as private on plat.
      (5)   Certification of proposed storm drainage systems. Plats submitted
for preliminary approval shall be accompanied by a letter from the District
Conservationist, or designee, of the County Soil and Water Conservation
District stating that proposed drainage system should provide effective
drainage of the area in the proposed subdivision and provide any current soils
information available for the property being divided.
      (6)   Contents required. The plat shall depict or contain the following
information:
         (a)   Name of proposed subdivision and name, address, and telephone
number of the owner of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Name of the designer of the proposed subdivision;
         (c)   Name of the county, township, and state in which the proposed
subdivision is located;
         (d)   A sketch or vicinity map, with scale and north arrow depicting
the surrounding areas. The vicinity map is to determine the approximate
location of the subdivision and not fix the absolute beginning of said
subdivision;
         (e)   Approximate corporate boundaries, township boundaries, and
county lines as appropriate;
         (f)   Date of plat preparation;
         (g)   North arrow with indication whether true grid or magnetic and
date of magnetic reading;
         (h)   Scale indicating in words or numbers and bar graph;
         (i)   Length and bearing of all existing and proposed property lines
including the boundaries of all lots being created by the division;
         (j)   The total number of lots being created by the division and the
minimum lot size, lots numbered consecutively, and block numbers, if
applicable;
         (k)   Existing roads, watercourses, marshes, swamps, ponds, lakes,
railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, and drainage ditches;
         (l)   Identify adjoining properties and recorded plats;
         (m)   Description of the proposed utility systems (water and sewage)
(i.e., on site well and septic tank, community water and/or stormwater system,
public water and/or sanitary sewerage system, and the like);
         (n)   Proposed drainage systems with an indication of any provisions
that are proposed for perpetual maintenance of these systems;
         (o)   Location of proposed streets, existing and platted streets on
adjoining properties and in the proposed subdivision, rights-of-way for
streets, pavement widths, and graphic description for all corners and curves
and typical street cross-sections. If any street is proposed to intersect with
a state maintained road, the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by an
application for driveway approval as required by the Department of
Transportation Division of Highways Manual on Driveway Regulations;
         (p)   All public streets delineated as such on the final plat shall
have a minimum right-of-way of 60 feet. All private streets, delineated as such
on the final plat shall have a minimum width of 30 feet right-of-way unless it
is a thoroughfare in which case it shall be a minimum of 60 feet in width. For
the purposes of this chapter, all subdivisions must have at least one
thoroughfare, and it shall be a street that provides access into the
subdivision from the public road if such public road bears S.R., N.C., or U.S.
designation;
         (q)   Site calculations including acreage in total tract being
divided, acreage in total parks, and other nonresidential use, approximate
linear feet in proposed streets;
         (r)   Proposed location and size of parks, school sites, or other
recreational or open spaces, if any, and statement of their future ownership
(dedication) for public use to governmental body, for property owners use to a
duly constituted homeowners or community association or for tenants with
property remaining in subdivider ownership;
         (s)   Proposed subdivision containing eight or more acres, must
include base flood elevation data;
         (t)   Any proposed natural buffers, pedestrian, bicycle, or other
right-of-way, utility drainage or other easements, their location, width, and
purpose;
         (u)   Any other information considered by either the subdivider or the
Planning Board to be pertinent to the review or the plat; and/or
         (v)   Present zoning classification (when applicable).
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   Maintenance guarantee. The Planning Board shall secure from all
subdivides a letter in which said subdivider shall agree to maintain any
required improvements located within said subdivision including roads, drainage
ditches, water and sewer systems (where applicable), and any ditches dug in
connection with the installation of such improvements. Such letter shall be
binding on the subdivider for a period of three years after the satisfactory
installation of required improvements. The period of three years shall begin on
the date recorded on the Planning Board’s signatures of approval on the final
plat and shall run for three years. The subdivider must provide, to the
Planning Board, plans for maintenance beyond the three years.
      (2)   Plat prepared. The final plat shall be prepared by or under the
supervision of a land surveyor, licensed and registered to practice in the
state.
      (3)   Number of copies and graphic media. A minimum of three copies of
the final plat shall be submitted to the Planning Board for approval. Graphic
media must meet the county requirements.
      (4)   Scale. Final plats shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals
100 feet, or one inch equals 50 feet.
      (5)   Certification required. The following signed certificate shall
appear on all copies of the final plat which are submitted to the Planning
Board for approval:
 
Certificate of Dedication and Ownership
“The undersigned or his agent acknowledge that the land shown on this plat is
within subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the Town of Varnamtown and that
this plat & allotment is my (our) free act and deed.”
-Owner’s signature
 
      (6)   Contents required. The final plat shall depict and contain all of
the information required in the preliminary plat per division (B) above. In
addition, the final plat shall depict or contain the following information:
         (a)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce
on the ground, every straight or curved boundary line, street line, lot line,
right-of-way line, easement line, and setback line including dimensions,
bearings, or deflection angles, radii, central angles, tangent distances for
the centerline of curved streets, and curved property lines that are not the
boundary of curved streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest
one-tenth of a foot and all angles to the nearest minute; and
         (b)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments,
markers, and central points.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013) Penalty, see §
152.999
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.085 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   Each major subdivision as defined in §
152.005 of this chapter shall contain the following improvements:
   (A)   Graded streets;
   (B)   Adequate storm drainage system;
   (C)   Installation of water distribution and sewerage collection lines
within the subdivision and, if any, connection to a county or municipal water
and/or sanitary sewerage system where a county or municipal system exists
adjacent to the subdivision or the property being subdivided, where feasible;
   (D)   Street name markers and non-duplicate names;
   (E)   Monuments as required by the G.S. Chapter 39, Article 5A; and, in
addition, two consecutive property corners shall be marked with permanent
markers; said markers shall be of concrete, four inches in diameter, 30 inches
in length, and set a minimum of 24 inches into the ground;
   (F)   Each lot shall be one-half acre in size;
   (G)   Height limit of 36 feet for structures on water front lots.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.086 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design standards for public streets. All public streets delineated as
such on the final plat shall have a minimum right-of-way of 60 feet. All
private streets, delineated as such on the final plat shall have a minimum
right-of-way of 30 feet, unless it is a thoroughfare in which case it too shall
be a minimum of 60 feet in width. For purposes of this chapter, all
subdivisions must have at least one thoroughfare, and it shall be a street that
provides access into the subdivision from the public road if such public road
bears S.R., N.C., or U.S. designation. Further, any street that ties into a
state road must meet state requirements.
   (B)   Design standards for stormwater drainage. Adequate drainage
subdividers shall provide an adequate system for the proper drainage of all
surface and subsurface water. The design of such a system shall be certified by
the County Soil and Water Conservation District as herein before required.
   (C)   Place of monuments. In accordance with G.S. Chapter 39, Article 5-A of
the permanent markers shall be placed at one or more corners of the subdivision
to be designated as control corners. In addition, permanent markers shall be
placed at the intersection of centerlines, offset lines, points of curvature,
or other control points within or on the right-of-way lines of two or more
streets. The permanent markers shall be of such material and affixed to the
earth in such a manner as to ensure as great a degree of permanence as is
reasonably practical. (Copy of Chapter 39, Article 5-A is in Appendix A of this
chapter.)
   (D)   Design standards.
      (1)   General design. All major subdivisions shall be designed so as to
minimize flood damage to any lots, buildings, or other facilities within the
development.
         (a)   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size shall be one-half acre
(21,780 square feet).
         (b)   Building setback lines. All major subdivisions shall show
minimum setback lines as follows:
            1.   Front yard: 50 feet;
            2.   Side yard: ten feet;
            3.   Street side yard, (corner lot): 15 feet; and
            4.   Rear yard: five feet.
         (c)   Height. Structures erected on waterfront property shall be
limited to height of not more than 36 feet from the average ground level of the
lot on which the structure is erected.
      (2)   Utilities.
         (a)   All utilities in a subdivision that include water systems,
stormwater systems, sanitary sewerage systems, gas lines, and electrical
distribution facilities, shall be designed and constructed so as to minimize
flood damage to those facilities.
         (b)   All water supply and sewerage systems within a proposed major
subdivision shall be designed so as to eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and eliminate discharge from the systems into flood waters.
         (c)   Any on site waste disposal system shall be located so as to
avoid impairment of the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
      (3)   Erosion and sediment. All major subdivisions shall be designed and
constructed in compliance with G.S. Chapter 113A, Article 4 (Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act of 1973).
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, if a person who is the owner or
agent of the owner of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of this
chapter subdivides his or her land in violation of this chapter, or transfers
or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or by any other use of a plat
showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly approved
under this chapter, and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds,
he or she shall be fined no more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days, or as otherwise may be provided by G.S. § 14-4. The description by metes
and bounds in the instrument of transfer, or other documents used in the
process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from
this penalty. The town’s Planning Board may bring an action for injunction of
any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land, and for an
order requiring the offending party to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2013)
`APPENDIX A: CONTROL CORNERS IN REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENTS
Appendix
Chapter 39
Article 5-A
Control Corners in Real Estate Developments
Requirement of Permanent Markers as “Control Corners”
   Whenever any person, firm or corporation shall hereafter divide any parcel
of real estate into lots and lay off streets through such real estate
development and sell or offer for sale any lot or lots in such real estate
development, it shall be the duty of such person, firm or corporation to cause
one or more corners of such development to be designated as “control corners”
and shall cause two or more street centerline or offset lines within or on the
street right-of-way lines to be permanently monumented at intersecting
centerlines or offset lines, points of curvature of such other control points
which monuments shall also be designated as control corners and to affix or
place at such control corner or corners permanent markers which shall be of
such material and affixed to the earth in such a manner as to insure as great a
degree of permanence as reasonable and practical. (1947, c. 816, s.2).
   Such control corners, as described in state law, and such permanent markers,
as described in state law, must be designated and affixed at the time of
recording the plat of said land or prior to the real estate development which
said person, firm, or corporation has caused to be laid off in lots with
designated streets. (1947, c. 816, s.2).
Recordation of Plat Showing Control Corners
   Upon designating a control corner and affixing a permanent marker, said
person, firm or corporation shall cause to be filed in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the County in which the real estate development is
located, a map or plat showing the location of the control corners and
permanent markers with adequate and sufficient description to enable a surveyor
to locate such control corner or marker. The Register of Deeds shall not accept
for registration or record any map or plat of a real estate subdivision or
development made after July, 1947, unless the location of such control corners
is shown thereon. (1947, c. 816, s.3).
Description of Land by Reference to Control Corners: Use of Control Corner to
Fix Distances and Boundaries Prima Facie Evidence of Correct Method
   Any lot or lots sold or otherwise transferred at the time of or subsequent
to the establishment of a control corner, may be described in any conveyance so
as to include a reference to the location of said lot or lots which are being
conveyed with respect to the control corner. Thereafter, the use of the control
corner in ascertaining distances so as to establish boundary lines of lots
within or originally within such real estate development may be admissible as
evidence in any court and shall be prima facie evidence of the correct method
of determining the boundaries of any lot or lots within any such real estate
development. (1947, c. 816, s.4).
CHAPTER 153: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND HOME PARKS
Section
Manufactured Homes
   
153.01   Authority and enactment
   
153.02   Jurisdiction
   
153.03   General provisions
   
153.04   Definitions
   
153.05   Word interpretation
   
153.06   Regulations
   
153.07   Enforcement
   
153.08   Appeal from the Inspection Officer
Manufactured Home Parks
   
153.20   Purpose; general requirement
   
153.21   Definitions
   
153.22   Permits
   
153.23   Construction or alterations of manufactured home parks
   
153.24   What the park plan shall show
   
153.25   General rules
   
153.26   Operating standards (subsequent to permit)
 
   
153.99   Penalty
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 153.01 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has, in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 8, §
174, enabled cities/towns by ordinance to define, prohibit, regulate, or abate
acts, omissions, or conditions, detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare
of its citizens, and the peace and dignity of the city/town.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen does hereby enact into law the following
subchapter as the “Varnamtown Manufactured Home Ordinance” hereinafter referred
to as “this subchapter” or “subchapter”.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
§ 153.02 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the town. This subchapter shall be permanently kept on file in the office of
the Town Clerk located in the Town Hall.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
§ 153.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Amendments. The Board of Aldermen may amend the terms of this
subchapter. No amendment shall become effective unless it has been submitted to
the Planning Board for review. The Planning Board shall have 30 days within
which to submit a report. If the Planning Board does not submit a report within
the specified time, it shall be deemed to have the approval of the amendment.
Before adopting or amending this subchapter, the Board of Aldermen shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed changes. A notice of the public hearing shall be
given in compliance with the rules regarding notice of a public hearing.
   (B)   Abrogation. It is intended that this subchapter not repeal, abrogate,
annul, impair, or interfere with any existing easement, covenant, deed
restrictions, agreements, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law. However, where this subchapter requires higher
standards, the provisions of this subchapter shall govern.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Where, because extraordinary hardships or practical difficulties
may result from strict compliance with these regulations, and/or purposes and
where these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an alternative
proposal, the Planning Board may approve variances to the manufactured home
ordinance so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations.
      (2)   No variance shall be issued to alter the procedures of review as
set forth herein.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall not approve variances unless it shall make
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health, or injurious to other property;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based
are unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not
applicable to other property; and
         (c)   Because strict enforcement of these regulations would result in
a hardship to the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience.
   (D)   Approval of variances.
      (1)   The Planning Board may require such conditions as shall, in its
judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements
of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall submit a copy of the petition with the
decision of the Planning Board to be filed in the office of the Town Clerk.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall keep a copy of the petition and the
decision by the Planning Board in its file.
         (a)   Procedures. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted
in writing by the property owner requesting a variance to the Planning Board.
The petition shall fully state the grounds for the application and all of the
facts relied upon by the petitioner. No permits shall be approved until the
questions of variance to this subchapter have been resolved.
         (b)   Time applicability. Any variance granted under the terms of this
subchapter shall expire 12 months from the date on which the variance was
granted.
         (c)   Appeal.
            1.   Before a petitioner may appeal before the Board of Aldermen,
he or she must pursue the variance process as outlined in division (D)(3)(a)
above.
            2.   A decision by the Planning Board may be appealed to the Board
of Aldermen by the petitioner within 30 days of the decision by the Planning
Board. The petitioner must cite, in writing, the grounds appealed from to the
office of the Town Clerk with a copy of the appeal sent to the Planning Board
at least five working days before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board of Aldermen.
            3.   Any decision by the Board of Aldermen that is contrary to the
original decision of the Planning Board must be stated in writing citing the
specific sections of this subchapter and the facts upon which the contrary
decision is based.
            4.   One copy of the decision must be sent to the Planning Board
and one copy sent to the party appealing within 30 days of the decision.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
§ 153.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS. The town’s Planning Board shall act as a quasi-
judicial Board of Adjustments.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The duly elected governing body of the town.
   BUILDINGS. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing, enclosure of persons, and/or property
   INSPECTION OFFICER. An appointee by the Board of Aldermen sworn in to
administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that: is not constructed in accordance
with the standards of the state’s Uniform Residential Building Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings; is substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant
and designed to be transported to the home site on its own chassis; and exceeds
40 feet in length and eight feet in width.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed ten years or
newer, that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the
narrowest part of the other axis;
      (2)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 960 square feet of enclosed
lining area;
      (3)   The pitch of the manufactured home’s roof has a minimum vertical
rise of two and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the
roof is finished with shingles;
      (4)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less
than six inches, which may include a gutter;
      (5)   The exterior siding consists predominately of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding, wood, or hardboard;
      (6)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the State Department of Insurance and a continuous, permanent, masonry
curtain wall or foundation, unpierced except ventilation and access, is
installed under the manufactured home;
      (7)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the State Department of Insurance,
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground;
and
      (8)   The moving hitch, wheels, axles, and transporting lights have been
removed.
   MANUFACTURED HOME CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed ten years or
newer, that meets or exceeds the standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction, but which does not satisfy all of the criteria necessary to
qualify the house as a Class A manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME CLASS C. A manufactured home that does not meet the
definition of either a Class A or Class B manufactured home.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the
construction standards of the state’s Uniform Residential Building Code for
One- and Two-Family Dwellings and composed of components substantially
assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for
final assembly and placement on a permanent foundation. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, a MODULAR HOME may consist of two or more sections
transported to the site on each its own chassis or steel frame, or a series of
panels or room sections transported to the site on a truck and erected,
assembled, or joined there.
   PLANNING BOARD. A board made up of two members of the Board of Aldermen and
three members of the community, all of which are appointed by the Board of
Aldermen. The PLANNING BOARD acts as a quasi-judicial Board of Adjustments.
   PRE-EXISTING LOT. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the adoption and
effective date of the Manufactured Home Ordinance, October 5, 1992, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded
prior to the adoption and effective date of the Manufactured Home Ordinance,
October 5, 1992 and includes lots approved for such use by variance issued by
the Planning Board.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected including, but not limited to,
buildings which requires location on the land or attachment to something having
permanent location on the land.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A structure that is intended to be transported over the
streets and highways, either as a motor vehicle or attached to or hauled by a
motor vehicle, is specifically designed for temporary use as sleeping quarters,
but that does not meet the definition of a manufactured home.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
§ 153.05 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future tense;
   (B)   Words in the singular number include the plural, and words in the
plural include the singular, unless the natural construction of the wording
indicates otherwise;
   (C)   The word, “person”, includes a firm, association, corporation, trust,
and company, as well as an individual;
   (D)   The word, “structure”, shall include the word “building”;
   (E)   The word, “lot”, shall include the words, “plat”, “parcel”, or
“tract”;
   (F)   The word, “shall”, is always mandatory and not merely directory; and
   (G)   The word, “will”, is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
§ 153.06 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place a manufactured home in the corporate limits of
the town without having obtained a manufactured home registration permit from
the Town Inspection Officer. Registration permits will be issued provided the
requirements set forth in this section are met.
   (B)   All manufactured homes shall be of Class A or Class B manufactured
home.
   (C)   All manufactured homes shall be on a lot containing not less than one-
half acre. Exceptions to the lot size given to pre-existing lots and lots
approved by variance having no conditions dictating otherwise.
   (D)   Minimum setback lines shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: 50 feet;
      (2)   Street side yard, 10 feet; corner lot, 15 feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard: five feet.
   (E)   All manufactured homes shall be properly connected to water and sewer
systems approved by the County Health Department.
   (F)   All manufactured homes shall be not more than ten years old.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint an Inspection Officer, who shall
be duly sworn in.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Officer to administer and
enforce the provisions of this subchapter as follows.
      (1)   The Inspection Officer shall issue manufactured home registration
permits as prescribed herein. A record of all permits shall be filed in the
office of the Town Clerk. Permits shall be available for public inspection
during regular office hours of the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The Inspection Officer shall keep records of all amendments to this
subchapter. The Inspection Officer shall keep records of variances issued by
the Planning Board.
      (3)   The Inspection Officer shall keep all notification letters of
violations and a copy of each letter shall be filed in the office of the Town
Clerk.
      (4)   The Inspection Officer shall report to the Board of Aldermen the
violations to this subchapter within the corporate limits of the town and the
action taken to remedy the violations. The report shall be given at the next
regularly scheduled Board of Aldermen meeting following the citing of the
violation.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
§ 153.08 APPEAL FROM THE INSPECTION OFFICER.
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Inspection Officer may be appealed to the Planning Board.
   (B)   An appeal from a decision by the Inspection Officer must be submitted
to the Planning Board within 30 days from the date the order, interpretation,
decision, or determination is made. All appeals must be made in writing,
stating the reasons for the appeal. The party making the appeal may be present
at the hearing.
   (C)   Following submission of an appeal, the Inspection Officer shall
transmit to the Planning Board a copy of all papers constituting the record
upon which the action appealed from was taken. This record must be transmitted
to the Planning Board in not less than seven days prior to the scheduled date
of the hearing.
   (D)   An appeal from the decision of the Planning Board may be made to the
Board of Aldermen within 30 days of the decision by the Planning Board. The
appeal must be in writing and must cite the reasons and grounds for the appeal.
   (E)   The Planning Board shall transmit to the Board of Aldermen all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. The
records must be transmitted to the Board of Aldermen in not less than seven
days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. The party making the appeal
may be present at the hearing.
   (F)   The Board of Aldermen shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing and
give notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within a
reasonable time.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 153.20 PURPOSE; GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to inform the developer and
the design engineer of the minimum requirements of the town for both design and
construction of utilities, pavements, easements, parks, buffer zones, drainage
of lands, and the like. It is not intended that this subchapter be interpreted
as a set of rules which will in any way negate the necessity of design of
proposed improvements by a civil engineer experienced in this specific field.
   (B)   General requirement. Before establishing a manufactured home park
development, it shall prescribe and conform with the provisions and regulations
set forth in the town’s Subdivision Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Additionally, the general terms comprising all of the directions, provisions
and requirements contained herein, together with the town’s Subdivision
Ordinance, and such as may be added or adopted as supplemental of special
provisions, all of which are necessary for a proper performance.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of the lands being improved who shall be financially
responsible to the town for satisfactory construction of said improvements.
This responsibility cannot be delegated to the contractor.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The town representative detailed by the Board of
Aldermen or the engineer to supervise or inspect methods and materials relating
to the development.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed after July 1,
1976, that meets or exceeds the standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction,
but which does not satisfy all of the criteria necessary to qualify the house
as a Class A manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS C. A manufactured home that does not meet the
definition of either a Class or a Class B manufactured home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. For the purpose of this subchapter, MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
shall mean a minimum and not less than two manufactured homes per tract of land
which consist of one acre of land excluding public utilities, right-of-way for
streets, and additional land as the town’s Planning Board may deem necessary to
conform to this subchapter.
   MODULAR HOME. 
      (1)   A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the construction
standards of the state’s Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and Two-
Family Dwellings and composed of components substantially assembled in a
manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for final assembly and
placement on a permanent foundation.
      (2)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a modular home
may consist of two or more sections transported to the site on each’s own
chassis or steel frame, or a series of panels or room sections transported to
the site on a truck and erected, assembled, or joined there.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board, which also acts as a Board of
Adjustment, appointed by the Board of Aldermen.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected including, but not limited to,
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A structure that is intended to be transported over the
streets and highways (either as a motor vehicle or attached to or hauled by a
motor vehicle), and is designed for temporary use as sleeping quarters, but
that does not meet the definition of a manufactured home.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.22 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a
manufactured home park within the jurisdiction of this subchapter unless such
person shall first obtain from the Board of Aldermen a conditional use permit.
   (B)   The conditional use permit shall be issued and subsequently renewed if
the Board of Aldermen finds that the applicable provisions of this subchapter
and all other town ordinances are satisfactorily complied with and, at the time
of the initial conditional use request, if the Planning Board and the Board of
Aldermen finds that the location of a proposed park is acceptable.
   (C)   No conditional use permit shall be issued for any manufactured home
park not in operation upon the effective date of this subchapter until the park
plan has been approved by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATIONS OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall construct or engage in the construction of any
manufactured home park or make any additions or alteration to a manufactured
home within the park or affects the facilities required therein until he or she
first secures a conditional use permit authorizing such construction, addition,
or alteration. The construction, addition, or alteration shall be done in
accordance with plans and specifications submitted with the application and
approved by the proper authorities, procedures for the applicant securing such
permit are described in Section IV of the Subdivision Ordinance. However,
before the Planning Board shall review the conditional use request, a park
plan, described below, must be submitted for review and approval by the
Planning Board. No plan is required to be prepared and approved for issuance of
a permit to make minor facility improvements in an exiting manufactured home
park where the number of manufactured home sites within the park is not
affected.
   (B)   The approved park plan becomes part of the conditions for the
conditional use and must be constructed and maintained accordingly in order to
retain the permit. The enforcement officer shall make an examination of the
construction at any reasonable time to determine whether the work is being done
according to approved plans and specifications, and the owner shall make
available any records, test data, or other information essential to such
determination.
   (C)   Adherence to the operating standards or other conditions required for
the conditional use permit to be renewed.
   (D)   All manufactured home units in a manufactured home park shall be
constructed of new material. All manufactured homes must meet the requirements
in Article III Section 1 of the Manufactured Home Ordinance.
   (E)   The conditional use permit granted to a manufactured home park shall
expire after two years. Permits shall be renewed if the Planning Board
determines that all conditions have been observed. If the permit is not
renewed, operations of the park must cease within six months of the date of
denial.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 WHAT THE PARK PLAN SHALL SHOW.
   The park plan shall be drawn on reproducible sheets to a scale of not less
than one inch equals 50 feet and shall show the following on one or more
sheets:
   (A)   The name of the manufactured home park, the names and addresses of the
owner(s) and the designer of the park;
   (B)   Date, approximate north arrow, and scale;
   (C)   The boundary line of the tract, with accurate linear and angular
dimensions, drawn to scale, and the area of the park in square feet or acres;
   (D)   A location map with a scale no less than one inch equals 1,000 feet
showing the location of the manufactured home park;
   (E)   The location of existing and platted property lines, streets,
buildings, watercourses, railroads, bridges, water mains, sewers, storm and
sanitary culverts, catch basins and manholes, and any utility easements. The
Planning Board may require similar information to be shown on proposed park
boundaries. The names of adjoining subdivisions or the names of recorded owners
of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land shall be indicated;
   (F)   The names, proposed location, and approximate dimensions of proposed
streets, driveways, entrances, exits, walkways, easements, recreations areas,
parks and open spaces, reservations, manufactured home stands, parking areas,
and building lines within the park. The locations, dimensions, and types of all
buffers which must meet the requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance. In all
cases the proposed characteristics shall be shown in a manner that shall
distinguish them clearly from the existing characteristics of the land and
adheres to the standards set by the State Department of Insurance and a
continuous, permanent masonry curtain wall or foundation, unpierced except for
ventilation and access, is installed under the manufactured home;
   (G)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of entrance
and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in accordance
with the standards set by the State Department of Insurance, attached firmly to
the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground; and
   (H)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have been
removed.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.25 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   Every manufactured home park shall be located on a tract of land not
less than two acres.
   (B)   Each manufactured home space be clearly established on the ground by
permanent monuments or markers. Spaces served by municipal water and sewer
systems shall be at least 7,200 square feet of ground area. All lots not served
by public or community service and/or water shall meet the minimum lot size
20,000 square feet and the requirements of the County Health Department.
   (C)   No more than one manufactured home may be parked on any manufactured
home space.
   (D)   The supports of all manufactured homes parked within an authorized
park shall rest upon footings which meet the state regulations for manufactured
homes. Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a patio of at least
100 square feet constructed of concrete, brick, flagstone, or other hard-
surfaced material, or a porch of similar size raised above the ground. A paved
or gravel walkway two feet wide minimum leading from the road or off-street
parking space to the patio shall be provided. Each patio and walkway shall be
graded and properly drained to prevent ponding.
   (E)   The following dimensional requirements shall be met:
      (1)   Minimum manufactured home park area: two acres;
      (2)   Minimum park width, without public or community utilities: 100
feet;
      (3)   Maximum density: two units per acre;
      (4)   Minimum manufactured home space department: 120 feet;
      (5)   Minimum setbacks on sides for a manufactured home within a space:
20 feet;
      (6)   Any attached accessory structure such as room extension, porches
and porch roofs, and carports shall, for the purpose of this setback
requirement, be considered to be a part of the manufactured home.; and
      (7)   Minimum setbacks for a manufactured home to external park
boundaries:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side and rear yards: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
   (F)   A driveway and parking space sufficient to accommodate at least two
automobiles shall be constructed within or assigned to each manufactured home
space and shall be paved or covered with crushed stone or other suitable
material.
   (G)   The manufactured home park shall be located so as not to be
susceptible to flooding and graded so as to prevent any water from ponding or
accumulating on the premises. Where storm drainpipes are located in adjacent
streets, underground drainage facilities with connections to the storm drainage
systems shall be provided for the manufactured home park when needed so long as
the capacity of the existing system can handle the additional load.
   (H)   Each manufactured home stand and the manufactured home space shall be
graded to provide adequate storm drainage away from the manufactured home and
such that there will exist no more than three feet difference between the
chassis of the manufactured home and the finished grade of the manufactured
home stand along the entire perimeter of the manufactured home proper.
   (I)   The manufactured home park shall have paved or gravel roads and
streets, lighted at night, that directly abut all manufactured home spaces.
Road surface widths shall be at least:
      (1)   One-way, no parking: 11 feet;
      (2)   One-way, parking on one side only: 18 feet;
      (3)   Two-way, no parking: 20 feet;
      (4)   Two-way, parking on one side only: 26 feet; and
      (5)   Two-way, parking on both sides: 32 feet.
   (J)   No manufactured home space shall have direct vehicular access to a
public street.
   (K)   Area to provide proper ditches and a minimum three to one back slope
shall be provided where determined necessary by the Planning Board.
   (L)   Closed ends of dead-end streets shall be provided with an adequately
surfaced vehicular turning circle at least 60 feet in diameter or a turning “Y”
with an angle of at least 90 degrees.
   (M)   Each manufactured home stand shall have adequate access, for both the
manufactured home and autos, with a minimum access width of 20 feet unless more
is deemed necessary because of topographical conditions or street curvature, so
that the parking, loading, or maneuvering of a manufactured home shall not
necessitate the use of any public street or right-of-way or any private
property not part of the manufactured home park.
   (N)   When the manufactured home park has more than one direct access to a
public street, they shall not be less than 200 feet apart or less than 200 feet
from a public street intersection unless topographical or site conditions
demand otherwise.
   (O)   Sign for the identification of manufactured home parks must meet the
requirements of the town.
   (P)   Buffers shall be installed around the entire perimeter of the
manufactured home park. Such buffers must meet the requirements of the Planning
Board and not be included within the dimensions of any manufactured home space.
   (Q)   The following utility standards shall apply. In every manufactured
home park, all installations (other than those within the manufactured home
itself) of plumbing and electrical wiring and all gas and oil appliances shall
comply with the provisions of the building, plumbing, electrical, heating, and
gas regulations of the state, county, and town.
      (1)   Utilities. All utilities shall be installed underground.
      (2)   Manufactured home stand utilities. Each manufactured home stand
shall be equipped with plumbing and electrical connections grouped together
within the manufactured home stand.
      (3)   Water supply. Each manufactured home park shall obtain water from a
public water supply, when available, and when unavailable, from a source
approved by the County Health Officer. The supply shall be adequate for the
park requirements. The drinking, cooking, laundry, and general bathroom water
supply for each individual manufactured home shall be obtained from faucets or
other plumbing connections located within each unit.
      (4)   Sewage disposal. Each manufactured home park shall be provided with
an adequate sewage disposal system, either by connection to a public sewage
system, or septic tank system approved by the County Health Department.
   (R)   Ground anchors shall be installed at each manufactured home stand to
permit tiedowns of manufactured homes. Each ground anchor shall be capable of
resisting an allowable working load equal to or exceeding 3,150 pounds applied
in the direction of the tiedown. In addition, each ground anchor shal1 be
capable of withstanding a 50% overload without failure. Ground anchors must be
resistant to weathering deterioration. The anchors shall be not more than eight
feet on centers beginning from the front line of the manufactured home stand
(congruent with the front wall of the mobile home). Not more than six feet
open-end spacing shall be provided at the rear line of the manufactured home
stand. These distance requirements may be modified if the entire tiedown
system, including ground anchors, is designed by a registered professional
engineer or architect. Ground anchors, for diagonal ties shall be provided in
conjunction with each vertical tiedown anchor.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 OPERATING STANDARDS (SUBSEQUENT TO PERMIT).
   The, following operating standards shall be conditions to any conditional
use permit to operate a manufactured home park and, as such, must be maintained
in order to qualify for a permit renewal.
   (A)   Manufactured home sales in manufactured home parks. It shall be
unlawful to conduct, on a commercial basis, the sale of manufactured homes or
travel trailers within a manufactured home park.
   (B)   Residential units not to be travel trailers. No manufactured home park
shall permit a travel trailer as herein defined to be located within its
boundaries, for periods greater than one week if used for any dwelling
whatsoever.
   (C)   Manufactured home equipment. Each manufactured home shall have a flush
toilet, lavatory, bathtub or shower, cooking facilities, and electric wiring
and shall be required to connect with the utilities provided at each
manufactured home space.
   (D)   Refuse disposal. All garbage and refuse in every manufactured home
park shall be stored in suitable watertight and fly-tight receptacles which
shall be kept covered with closely fitting covers. The size and type of all
garbage receptacles shall be in conformance with town standards. No person
shall throw or leave garbage or refuse upon the ground of any manufactured home
park. It shall be the duty of the manufactured home park operator to make
certain that all garbage and refuse are regularly disposed of in a sanitary
manner.
   (E)   Health regulations. All applicable health regulations shall apply to
manufactured home parks within the jurisdiction of the town except where such
regulations are in conflict with the provisions of this section, in which case
the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   (F)   Tiedowns. The owner of the manufactured home park shall be responsible
to see that each manufactured home is properly tied down.
   (G)   Duties of the Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer is hereby
designated as the town officer to enforce the provision of this subchapter in
accordance with the Subdivision Ordinance for the town.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
153.01 through
153.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
in accordance with G.S. § 14-4. The maximum fine for each offense shall not
exceed $500. Each 30 days that the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   If any manufactured house or lot is found to be in violation of §§
153.01 through
153.08, the Board of Aldermen may, in addition to all other remedies available
either in law or in equity, institute a civil penalty in the amount of $50, and
may take action or proceedings to restrain, correct, or abate the violation; to
prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about the premises.
Each 30 days that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   If the Inspection Officer finds that any of the provisions of §§
153.01 through
153.08 are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing, the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land or alterations or structural changes
thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any
action authorized by §§
153.01 through
153.08 to ensure compliance with, or to prevent violation of, its provisions.
If a ruling of the Inspection Officer is questioned, the aggrieved party or
parties may appeal such ruling to the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2014)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Interpretation
   
154.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
154.14   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
154.15   Effective date
Administration
   
154.30   Designation, duties, and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
154.31   Floodplain development application, permit, and certification
requirements
   
154.32   Corrective procedures
   
154.33   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.45   General standards
   
154.46   Specific standards
   
154.47   Coastal high hazard areas (Zones VE and V1-30)
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 21, part 6; G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 8; and G.S. Chapter 160D,
Articles 7, 9, and 11, delegated to local governmental units the responsibility
to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health, and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, streams, channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the flood
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CAMA. The state’s Coastal Area Management Act. This act, along with the
Dredge and Fill Law and the federal Coastal Zone Management Act, is managed
through the state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR)
Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   CBRS. Coastal barrier resources system.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building, used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by federal or state governments
or private conservation organizations identified as otherwise protected areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §
154.07 of this chapter, as Zone VE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into, or
on, any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the
solid waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged
into any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevation (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs).
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization on
the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD establish the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. As defined in G.S. 130A-290, a facility for the
collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of
hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program.
      (2)   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value, and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of the community’s flood
damage prevention ordinance and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   OPA. An otherwise protected area.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or alter the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map for the area.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and over-topping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL
DUNE occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, or AO. The REFERENCE
LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor for structures within special flood hazard areas designated as Zone VE.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulation or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35), any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
154.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place during any one-year
period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either: any correction of
existing violations of state or community health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the community code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
or any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.30 through
154.33 and §§
154.45 through
154.47 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level of
floods, of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable,
of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the cooperating
technical state (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its flood insurance study (FIS) dated December 5, 2019 for Brunswick County and
associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data developed as part of the
FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter,
and all revisions thereto.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006; Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 154.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with §
154.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.13 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted January 13, 1997 as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town enacted on June 2, 2006, as amended, which are not reenacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.14 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
§ 154.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective June 2, 2006.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.30 DESIGNATION, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designation. The Planning Board Chairperson, hereinafter referred to
as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall
perform, but not be limited to, the following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, CAMA,
riparian buffers, mining, and the like) may be required, and require that
copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
154.45 through
154.47 are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.31(C);
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with §
154.31(C);
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with § 1541.31(C);
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
154.31(C) and
154.46(B);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
154.02, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to § 153.33
in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
154.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a
special flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation, advise the
property owner of the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in
the floodplain development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications, for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws, or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspection Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
154.32;
      (20)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited
to, the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
154.07 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters or
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and/or
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.31 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator, in writing, prior to any
development activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following
items shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a
floodplain development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance, existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07 or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07;
         (d)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
154.07,
154.30(B)(11) and (B)(12), or
154.46;
         (e)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (f)   The boundary and designation date of the coastal barrier
resource system (CBRS) area or otherwise protected areas (OPA), if applicable.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A, or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on walls in accordance with §
154.46(D), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30; and/or
         (c)   The following, in coastal high hazard area, in accordance with
§§
154.46(D)(4) and
154.47:
            1.   V-zone certification with accompanying plans and
specifications verifying the engineered structure and any breakaway wall
designs;
            2.   Plans for open wood latticework or insect screening, if
applicable; and/or
            3.   Plans for non-structural fill, if applicable. If non-
structural fill is proposed, it must be demonstrated through coastal
engineering analysis that the proposed fill would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation or otherwise cause adverse impacts by wave ramping and
deflection on to the subject structure or adjacent properties.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed area below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state, and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion, and sedimentation control, CAMA, riparian buffers, mining, and the
like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
154.46(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
154.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway; or
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE, or A1-30.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate date
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data and an operational plan, is
required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and
all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing
certification shall be prepared by, or under, the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data and plan. Deficiencies detected
by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured homes. If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A,
AO, AE, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is 36 inches in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required per §
154.46(C).
      (4)   Watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a
professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed project
on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream, and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirement of §
154.46(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.46(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirement of §
154.46(H).
      (6)   V-zone certification. A v-zone certification with accompanying
design plans and specifications is required prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit within coastal high hazard areas. It shall be the duty of
the permit applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator said
certification to ensure the design standards of this chapter are met. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or review the
structural design, plans, and specifications for construction and certify that
the design and methods of construction to be used are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions or this chapter. This
certification is not a substitute for an elevation certificate.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.32 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time not later than ten days after the date of the notice,
at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.33 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Board as established by the town, hereinafter referred to
as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.05 of this chapter, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3), and
(I)(5) below have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods
that minimize flood damages; and/or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
154.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safely or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   No variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerator,
freezers, and the like), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted except by variance as specified in §
154.33(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to §
154.31(C) of this chapter.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. § 1114).
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.46 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
154.07 or
154.30(B)(11) and (B)(12), the following provisions, in addition to §
154.45, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE, and A1-30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with division (D) below. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
154.31(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured home shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
154.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most current edition of
the state’s regulations for manufactured homes, adopted by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of divisions (D)(1), (D)(2), and (D)(3) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed areas of new construction and
substantially improved structures which are below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials, up to
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (4)   Shall allow, in coastal high hazard areas (Zones VE and V1-30),
breakaway walls, open wood latticework, or insect screening, provided it is not
part of the structural support of the building and is designed so as to
breakaway, under abnormally high tides or wave action, without causing damage
to the structural integrity of the building, provided the following design
specification are met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood latticework or insect
screening; or
         (b)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
            1.   Design safe loading resistance of each wall shall be not less
than ten nor more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
            2.   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
or 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading value used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the State
Building Code.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where an independent perimeter load bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standard for new construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit in writing to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of
such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of
flood warning notification. The following information shall be submitted in
writing to the Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas).
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
§
154.45(A).
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
154.45(D).
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with division (D)(3) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with division (C)
above.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (ZONES VE AND V1-30).
   (A)   Coastal high hazard areas are special flood hazard areas established
in §
154.07, and designated as Zones VE.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with high velocity
waters from storm surges or seismic activity and, therefore, in addition to
meeting all requirements of this chapter with the exception of floodway and
non-encroachment area provisions (Article 5, Section F), the following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvement shall:
         (a)   Be located landward of the reach of mean high tide;
         (b)   Be located landward of the first line of stable natural
vegetation; and
         (c)   Comply with all applicable CAMA setback requirements.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated
so that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor (excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. Floodproofing shall not be utilized on any structures in
coastal high hazard areas to satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation
requirements.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the
space below the lowest floor free of obstruction so as not to impede the flow
of floodwaters, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Open wood latticework or insect screening may be permitted below
the regulatory flood protection elevation for aesthetic purposes only and must
be designed to wash away in the event of abnormal wave action and in accordance
with §
154.46(D)(4)(a). Design plans shall be submitted in accordance with §
154.31(A)(4)(c)2.; or
         (b)   Breakaway walls may be permitted provided they meet the criteria
set forth in §
154.46(D)(2). Design plans shall be submitted in accordance with §
154.31(A)(4)(c)1.
      (4)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be securely
anchored to pile or column foundations. All pilings and columns and the
structures attached thereto shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement due to the effect of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
         (a)   Water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood.
         (b)   Wind loading values used shall be those required by the current
edition of the State Building Code.
      (5)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications, and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in §
154.31 and divisions (B)(3)(a), (B)(3)(b), (B)(4) above, and (B)(6) below on
the current version of the state’s National Flood Insurance Program v-zone
certification form.
      (6)   (a)   Fill shall not be used for structural support.
         (b)   Limited non-compacted and non-stabilized fill may be used around
the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic purposes provided it is
demonstrated though coastal engineering analysis that the proposed fill would
not result in any increase in the base flood elevation and not cause any
adverse impacts by wave ramping and deflection to the subject structure or
adjacent properties.
      (7)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes which would increase
potential flood damage.
      (8)   (a)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision.
         (b)   A replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring and
elevation standards of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (9)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
154.46(F)(1) and the temporary structure provisions of §
154.46(G).
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than five days, or both. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (B)   Pursuant to §
154.32, if the owner of a building or property fails to comply with an order to
take corrective action for which no appeal has been made or fails to comply
with an order of the governing body following an appeal, the owner shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2006)
CHAPTER 155: BUILDING REGULATIONS; ADDRESSING
Section
Property Numbering
   
155.01   Numbering map
   
155.02   Numbering system
   
155.03   Duty of owner or occupant to purchase numbers
   
155.04   Number for future buildings
   
155.05   Unlawful to deface numbers
   
155.06   Change of individual numbers
Accessory Structures
   
155.20   Authority and general regulations
   
155.21   Prohibitions; exclusions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
PROPERTY NUMBERING
§ 155.01 NUMBERING MAP.
   (A)   The property numbering map, entitled property numbering map, dated
September 16, 1991 is hereby adopted as the official property numbering map of
the town and all property numbers assigned shall be assigned in accordance with
this numbering map and no other property numbers shall be used or displayed in
the town, except numbers assigned in accordance with the official numbering
map.
   (B)   The property numbering map shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1991)
§ 155.02 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   On the town’s property numbering map, the Lockwood Folly River, at a point
beyond the east end of Fisherman Road is hereby designated as the east to west
axis. On the town’s property numbering map, as east-west grid line being 2,600
grid line, in the county system, and being north of the most northern city
limits of the town, is hereby designated as the north to south axis. All
streets, avenues, and alleys running generally east and west shall be numbered
from the east to west axis (Lockwood Folly River) consecutively to the
corporate limits of the extremity of such streets, avenues, or alleys. All
streets, avenues, and alleys running generally north and south, shall be
numbered from the north to south axis (grid 2,600) in the same mariner.
Wherever possible, 100 numbers shall be allowed to each block so that the
number of each consecutive block shall commence with consecutive hundreds and
one. Even numbers shall be assigned to the west side of the street on all
north-south streets, and odd numbers to the east side. On east-west streets,
even numbers shall be assigned to the north side of the street and odd numbers
to the south side of the street.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1991)
§ 155.03 DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO PURCHASE NUMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, or occupant of any house,
building, or mobile home fronting on a street in the town, to purchase and
properly display, in a conspicuous place, a number which has been assigned by
the town on or before November 1, 1991. The assigned numbers not to be less
than five inches in height and displayed so that it may be plainly seen and
observed from the street.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1991) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 NUMBER FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residence and business buildings erected after the adoption of this
subchapter shall be assigned a number in accordance with the town’s property
numbering map, and shall purchase and display such number as provided in §
155.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1991)
§ 155.05 UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface, or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this subchapter, except for
repair or replacement of such number.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1991) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 CHANGE OF INDIVIDUAL NUMBERS.
   Individual numbers assigned as provided in this subchapter may only be
changed by the Town Board if the necessity thereof may arise.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1991)
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
§ 155.20 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The legislature of the state, in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 8, § 174,
enabled cities by ordinance to define, prohibit, regulate, or abate acts,
omissions, or conditions, detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of its
citizens and the peace and dignity of the city.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen thus enacted into law the following subchapter
as the town’s Accessory Building Ordinance hereinafter referred to as
“subchapter” or “this subchapter”.
(Ord. passed 2-8-1999)
§ 155.21 PROHIBITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A) Any facility not specifically designed for the intended use as an
accessory building is prohibited in the town such as, but not limited to, truck
bodies, tractor trailers, and unregistered vehicles.
   (B)   Commercial businesses shall be excluded from this subchapter to the
extent that the facility used is in direct relation to the operation of the
business.
(Ord. passed 2-8-1999) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
155.20 or
155.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
in accordance with G.S. § 14-4. The maximum fine for each offense shall not
exceed $500. Each 30 days that the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-8-1999)
CHAPTER 156: CAMPGROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Jurisdiction
   
156.02   Applicability
   
156.03   Word interpretations
   
156.04   Definitions
Specifications for Campgrounds
   
156.15   Suitability of land
   
156.16   Site development
   
156.17   Garbage and refuse disposal
Campground/Travel Trailer Operation
   
156.30   Travel trailer registers
   
156.31   Existing parks
   
156.32   Inspection
Administration
   
156.45   Site plan submittal
   
156.46   Campground development in stages
   
156.47   Planning Board
   
156.48   Construction permit
   
156.49   Operation permit
   
156.50   Transfer of permits
   
156.51   Minimum requirements
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall govern the establishment of each and every new campground
and the alteration or expansion of existing campgrounds within the jurisdiction
of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.02 APPLICABILITY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to establish, operate, or expand a campground in a manner which is
inconsistent with the provisions and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.03 WORD INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall be interpreted
as specified below.
   (A)   The word may is permissive.
   (B)   The words shall and will are mandatory.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUFFER STRIP. A minimum of ten-foot wide strip free of encroachment by
buildings, parking areas, or impervious coverage, and defined by a minimum of a
six-foot high opaque fence located along adjacent perimeter property lines.
   CAMPGROUND. Any site or tract of land upon which two or more camp sites are
occupied or intended for occupancy by tents or travel trailers, dependent
trailers, or motor homes.
   DEPENDENT TRAILER. A travel trailer which does not have a flush toilet, a
lavatory, and a bath or shower.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A person authorized by the Board of Aldermen to enforce
this chapter.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY. Any street within a campground not publicly
maintained and utilized for access by the occupants of the campground, their
guests, and public and maintained by the owner.
   SANITARY STATION. A facility provided for the removing and disposing of
wastes from trailer holding tanks.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet, lavatory, bathing, and such
other facilities as may be required by this chapter for the purpose of
supplementing the facilities contained in dependent trailers and tents.
   TENT. A collapsible shelter of canvas or other material stretched and
sustained by poles and intended for human occupancy as a temporary dwelling for
short periods of time.
   TENT OR TRAILER SPACE. The portion of an individual camp site which is
intended for occupancy by the tent or travel trailer.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure designed to be transported and
intended for human occupancy as a dwelling for short periods of time, such
vehicle containing limited or no kitchen and bathroom facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
SPECIFICATIONS FOR CAMPGROUNDS
§ 156.15 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   Land subject to flooding, such as floodplain, improper drainage, erosion, or
that is for topographical or for other reasons unsuitable for campground use as
determined by the Planning Board shall not be developed for travel trailer
parks so long as such use would continue or increase the danger to health,
safety, and property.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.16 SITE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Every campground shall contain at least 12 spaces.
   (B)   Parking spaces sufficient to accommodate at least one motor and
camping vehicle shall be constructed within each space. No more than one
camping vehicle may be parked on any space.
   (C)   No camping vehicle shall be placed within a minimum of 25 feet from a
public street right-of-way.
   (D)   All spaces shall be located on sites with elevations that are not
susceptible to flooding (elevation 13 feet above sea level). The spaces shall
be graded to prevent any water from ponding or accumulating within the
campground. Each space shall be properly graded to obtain a reasonably flat
site and to provide adequate drainage away from the space.
   (E)   The park shall have all-weather roads that directly abut the front or
rear of travel trailer. All road rights-of-way shall have a minimum width of 20
feet. Rights-of-way for one-way roads may have a minimum width of 12 feet. In
areas of heavy vehicle use wider rights-of-way shall be required.
   (F)   No space shall have direct vehicular access to a public road.
   (G)   The park shall be developed with proper drainage ditches. All banks
shall be sloped three on one and seeded.
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs or dead end roads shall not exceed a 100-foot radius.
   (I)   Each space shall be designated on the ground by permanent markers per
town standard.
   (J)   There shall be a minimum of 2,100 square feet per travel trailer
space.
   (K)   The campground shall have a gross land area of a minimum of two and
one-half acres.
   (L)   A buffer strip shall be provided along the exterior of each
campground.
   (M)   When the campground has more than one direct access to a public road,
they shall not be less than 300 feet apart or closer than 300 feet to a public
road intersection unless site conditions demand otherwise by the state, county,
or the town’s Planning Board.
   (N)   Each campground shall have a central structure or structures that will
provide separate toilet facilities for both sexes. This structure may also
contain coin operated machines for the park resident’s use only, provided there
is no exterior advertising. Vending machines may also be permitted in a
sheltered area unless otherwise noted by the town’s Planning Board.
   (O)   No swimming pool or bathing area shall be installed, altered,
improved, or used without compliance with applicable regulations. No bathing
area shall be used without the approval of the County Health Department.
   (P)   Signs for identification of parks shall not exceed four feet by eight
feet at the entrance to the park.
   (Q)   All spaces developed adjacent to a public road shall be set back a
minimum of 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
   (R)   The campground/park shall be well lighted from sunset to sunrise.
There shall be a minimum of one light per three spaces. Lights shall be mounted
on 30-foot poles, and not less than 175 watts, mercury vapor or its equivalent.
   (S)   Where electrical service is used, the installation and use of such
facilities shall conform with all applicable codes. Such facilities shall be
inspected by the county’s Electrical Inspector.
   (T)   (1)   Each park shall provide recreation areas to serve the needs of
the anticipated users, a minimum of one-half acre of level well drained ground
for every 12 spaces shall be utilized as a recreation area.
      (2)   The park owner is responsible for the development and maintenance
of the recreation areas.
   (U)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park or store a mobile home in a
campground.
   (V)   At no time shall a travel trailer, dependent trailer, tent, or motor
home occupy any space in a campground for a period longer than four months
within a year.
   (W)   No camper space shall be used as permanent place of abode. Any action
toward removal of wheels of a camper except for temporary purposes of repair is
hereby prohibited.
   (X)   Junked or wrecked vehicles are prohibited in campgrounds.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.17 GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   (1)   The park owner is responsible for refuse collection.
      (2)   All refuse shall be collected at least twice weekly, or more if the
need is indicated.
   (B)   Storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be so managed as not
to create health hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding areas, accidents,
fire hazards, or air pollution.
   (C)   (1)   All refuse shall be stored in conveniently located leak-proof,
rodent-proof containers with tight fitting lids.
      (2)   One such can with a capacity of at least 20 gallons shall be
provided for every two spaces.
      (3)   Garbage cans shall be located no further than 100 feet from any
travel trailer space.
   (D)   (1)   Racks or concrete platforms shall be provided on which to store
containers.
      (2)   Racks or platforms shall be so designed as to prevent tipping and
to minimize spillage.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
CAMPGROUND/TRAVEL TRAILER OPERATION
§ 156.30 TRAVEL TRAILER REGISTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator to keep an accurate
register containing a record of all occupants and owners of travel trailers
located within a park.
   (B)   The register for any given year shall be preserved for two years and
shall be available for inspection at all times by the town’s Enforcement
Officer, the County Health Department, and other government agencies authorized
by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the owner and/or occupant, if different;
      (2)   Date entered and date of leaving park;
      (3)   Lot or space number; and
      (4)   Make, model, and register number of travel trailer.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.31 EXISTING PARKS.
   (A)   Existing campgrounds which do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter may continue to operate subject to the regulations applicable at the
time of approval.
   (B)   But in no case shall any campground be allowed to be revised,
reconstructed, or expanded in a manner which is inconsistent with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.32 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The County Health Department, the County Electrical Inspector, and the
town’s Enforcement Officer are hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owners of campgrounds to give these
agencies free access to the campground at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.45 SITE PLAN SUBMITTAL.
   The developer shall submit a copy of a site plan to the town’s Planning
Board at least 14 days prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the plan is
to be considered. The site plan shall contain all information necessary to show
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.46 CAMPGROUND DEVELOPMENT IN STAGES.
   When a campground is to be developed in stages, the preliminary campground
plan shall be submitted for the entire development, and approval by the town’s
Planning Board shall be required for each stage of development.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.47 PLANNING BOARD.
   The Planning Board shall have 45 days from its initial consideration of the
site plan in which to approve or disapprove the plan.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.48 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   Upon Planning Board approval of the site plan, the Town Clerk shall be
authorized to issue a letter of approval. A construction permit may be obtained
from the county.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.49 OPERATION PERMIT.
   (A)   After construction is completed and approved by the town’s Enforcement
Officer, the developer may apply for an operation permit.
   (B)   This permit authorizes the developer to operate the campground.
   (C)   Operation permits may be obtained from the Town Clerk.
   (D)   An operation permit costs $100 and shall be renewed each year. This
cost is subject to change by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.50 TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   Construction and operation permits are not transferable. The campground
owner shall notify the Enforcement Officer of any transfer in ownership within
30 days.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.51 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements.
Wherever the requirements of this chapter differ with the requirements of any
other adopted county, state, or federal regulation, the most restrictive or
that imposing the highest standard shall govern.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   The operation permit shall be valid until revoked. The Enforcement Officer
shall periodically visit the campground to determine continued compliance with
this chapter. If the campground is determined to be in violation, the
Enforcement Officer shall notify the operator in writing of the violations and
of action necessary to bring the campground into compliance. Failure by the
owner/operator to correct violations within 120 days of notification shall
constitute grounds for revocation of the permit. Operation of a campground
without a valid operation permit is a misdemeanor subject to enforcement
actions provided by state law. When the Enforcement Officer determines that the
park has been brought back into compliance with applicable regulations, he or
she shall reinstate the operation permit at a cost of the initial operation
permit.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-6-2008   Extending the corporate limits of the town by annexing
                     0.289 acre of land on the south side of Sabbath Home Road
                     Extending the corporate limits of the town by annexing
                     1.25 acres beginning at the SW corner of a tract of land
2022-01  10-10-2022  claimed by VFW Post #8866 as recorded in Deed Book 3791,
                     Page 870, as shown on a map recorded in Map Cabinet 3,
                     Page 175
                    
 
TABLE II: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        3-17-2008   Interlocal agreement between the county and town for the
                     performance of animal control services
-        8-1-2014    Interlocal agreement between the county and the town for
                     the performance of animal control services
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Miscellaneous Legislation
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                        Code Section
Chapter 7A                          154.33
                                    90.01,
                                    151.999,
14-4                                152.999,
                                    153.99,
                                    155.99
14-4(a)                             10.99
14-306(a)                           110.04
20-401(12b)                         71.02
Chapter 39, Article 5A              152.085,
                                    152.086
67-2                                90.01 
67-4.3                              90.01 
Chapter 113A, Article 4             151.075,
                                    152.086
Chapter 129                         151.005,
                                    152.005
130A-25                             90.01 
130A-290                            154.05
130A-290(a)(35)                     154.05
130A-290(a)(36)                     154.05
136-102.6                           151.005,
                                    152.070
136-102.6(a)                        152.005
                                    150.05,
136-102.6(c)                        151.005,
                                    152.071
Chapter 143, Article 21, part 6     154.01
143-143.15                          154.46
Chapter 160A, Article 8             154.01
Chapter 160A, Article 8, § 174     153.01,
                                    155.20
160A-175                            10.99
                                    150.03,
                                    150.04,
Chapter 160D                        151.003,
                                    151.004,
                                    152.003,
                                    152.004
                                    150.23,
160D-406                            151.040,
                                    152.041
                                    150.23,
160D-406(b)                         151.041,
                                    152.041
160D-406(j)                         150.23,
                                    152.041
                                    150.21,
160D-601                            151.038,
                                    152.039
Chapter 160D, Articles 7, 9, and 11 154.01
160D-802                            150.05
160D-802(a)                         151.005
160D-804.1                          152.038
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      9-16-1991   155.01 -
                     155.06
–      5-4-1993    153.20 - 153.32
–      11-8-1993   91.01
–      10-10-1994  Chapter 70, Schedule I
–      2-13-1995   111.01 -
                     111.12
                     156.01 -
                     156.04,
                     156.15 -
                     156.17,
–      8-14-1995   156.30 -
                     156.32,
                     156.45 -
                     156.51,
                     156.99
                     155.20 -
–      2-8-1999    155.21,
                     155.99
–      5-8-2000    130.01 -
                     130.04
–      12-11-2000  110.01 -
                     110.07
                     154.01 -
                     154.15,
                     154.30 -
–      5-25-2006   154.33,
                     154.45 -
                     154.47,
                     154.99
–      2-11-2008   90.01
–      10-6-2008   TSO, Table I
                     151.001 -
                     151.005,
                     151.020,
                     151.021,
                     151.035 -
–      11-8-2010   151.041,
                     151.055 -
                     151.057,
                     151.070 -
                     151.075,
                     151.999
                     152.001 -
                     152.006,
                     152.020,
                     152.021,
                     152.035 -
                     152.041,
–      4-8-2013    152.055 -
                     152.057,
                     152.070,
                     152.071,
                     152.085,
                     152.086,
                     152.999
                     153.01 -
–      1-13-2014   153.08,
                     153.99
                     150.01 -
–      11-9-2015   150.07,
                     150.20 -
                     150.23
–      10-15-2018  Chapter 70, Schedule I
                     150.03 -
                     150.05,
                     150.07,
                     150.20,
                     150.21,
                     150.23,
                     150.24,
                     151.003 -
                     151.005,
                     151.035,
                     151.038,
–      5-11-2021   151.040 -
                     151.042,
                     151.070,
                     151.072,
                     152.003 -
                     152.005,
                     152.035,
                     152.038,
                     152.039,
                     152.041,
                     152.042,
                     152.085,
                     152.086
–      5-11-2021   154.01,
                     154.07
–      8-9-2021    71.01 -
                     71.03
                     150.05,
                     150.07,
–      8-9-2021    150.20,
                     151.005,
                     151.075,
                     152.005
2022-01  10-10-2022  TSO, Table I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MISCELLANEOUS LEGISLATION
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      3-17-2008   TSO, Table II
–      8-1-2014    TSO, Table II
                    
 
