Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by Wake
County. The table includes links to the ordinances (as maintained in PDF
format) and to the code sections affected (where applicable). For other
legislation, please contact Wake County.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code of Ordinances and are not yet effective have
their identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out and are not available in a PDF format for viewing.
 
Jump to:
2009 Ordinances
2010 Ordinances
2011 Ordinances
2012 Ordinances
2013 Ordinances
2014 Ordinances
2015 Ordinances
2016 Ordinances
2017 Ordinances
2018 Ordinances
2019 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
 
2009 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      5-4-2009  Red Flag Rules
                   32.20-32.32
–      12-7-2009 Regulating management of solid waste
                   50.01-50.20
 
 
2010 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      8-16-2010 Data storage box
                   70.50
 
 
2011 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      11-7-2011 Regulating begging, solicitation, and vehicular interference
                   94.01-94.09, 94.99
 
 
2012 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      3-19-2012 Ambulance services
                   111.01-111.06
–      5-21-2012 Regulating begging, solicitation, and vehicular interference
                   94.01-94.09, 94.99
 
 
2013 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
None               
                  
                  
 
2014 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
None               
                  
                  
 
 
2015 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                    Emergency medical services and ambulance services; replace
–      8-3-2015   chapter
                    Ch. 111
–      9-21-2015  Equal Employment Opportunity
                    31.04
–      11-16-2015 Personnel salaries
                    NA
–      12-22-2015 Smoking, tobacco and vapor product use
                    32.15
 
2016 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      4-18-2016 Criminal histories and background check
                   31.15
–      --        Rabies control
                   91.30 - 91.39
 
 
2017 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      9-18-2017  Retiree health insurance eligibility
                    31.14
–      9-18-2017  Employee workdays and absences
                    31.08
–      11-20-2017 Animals
                    Ch. 91
 
2018 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      8- -2018  Amendments to the personnel policy
                   31.08
 
2019 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      11-18-2019 Positions and position classification plan
                    31.05(C)
–      12-2-2019  Paid family leave
                    31.08(L)
 
2020 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      7-6-2020  Holidays
                   31.08(B)
 
 
2021 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      4-19-2021  Building regulations
                    Ch. 150
–      4-19-2021  Historic preservation
                    Ch. 151
–      10-18-2021 Employment discrimination
                    Adding Ch. 34
 
 
2022 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      6-21-2022  Farmland Preservation Program
–      10-3-2022  Workdays and absences
                    31.08
–      11-9-2022  Firearms
                    Ch 130
–      11-14-2022 Smoking, Tobacco and Vapor Product Use
                    32.15
 
2023 Ordinances
 
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
–      7-10-2023  Personnel Code
                    31.14
–      11-20-2023 Personnel Code
                    31.08
                   
                   
 
 
2024 Ordinances
 
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
--       1-2024    Amending Title VII: Emergency Management
                   Chapter 70 - Chapter 72
                  
                  
                  
 
 
 
 
WAKE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7187ab6589fed3336bb1bba1f926fbd95641c7d5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-604.jpg]
Code adopted August 3, 2009
2025 S-19 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2-5-2024
State legislation current through
2024 North Carolina Legislative Service, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
COUNTY OFFICIALS
Susan Evans, Chair
Don Mial, Vice Chair
Vickie Adamson, Commissioner
Safiyah Jackson, Commissioner
Cheryl Stallings, Commissioner
Shinica Thomas, Commissioner
Tara Waters, Commissioner
David Ellis, County Manager
Scott Warren, County Attorney
Yvonne Gilyard, Deputy Clerk to the Board
 
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Wake County, North Carolina,
shall be designated as the Code of Wake County, North Carolina, and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the County of Wake,
North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Wake County, North Carolina.
      DAY. A calendar day.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any pathway, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the
county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of- way or area between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday, Sunday or state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or,
in any way, affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Wake County, North Carolina, is
hereby amended as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full
as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Wake County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section,
to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:....” The
new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or divisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget or
prescribing salaries for county officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit or other
right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   And all such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of County
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [such as,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivision;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles of sections and
other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections      to      ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. §§ 160A-175
and 14-4(a)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
31.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
32.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
33.   FEES
      
34.   NON-DISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 30: COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Open Space and Parks Advisory Committee
   
30.001   Creation and appointment
   
30.002   Duties
Human Services Board
   
30.025   Created
   
30.026   Composition and appointment
   
30.027   Officers
   
30.028   Powers and duties of Board
   
30.029   Human Services Agency and Director
   
30.030   Effective date
County Library
   
30.045   Title
   
30.046   Creation
   
30.047   Library, authority
   
30.048   Library Commission, authority
   
30.049   Continuation of the Board of Trustees as the Library Commission
   
30.050   Real property of library
   
30.051   Effective date
Planning Board
   
30.065   Established
   
30.066   Purpose
   
30.067   Duties
   
30.068   Meetings, rules and records
   
30.069   Compensation and expenses
   
30.070   Membership, terms, vacancies and officers
   
30.071   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management Agency, see
Chapter 70
   Historic Preservation Commission, see
Chapter 151
OPEN SPACE AND PARKS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
  § 30.001 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Open Space and Parks Advisory Committee is hereby created, consisting of
11 members (one appointed by each commissioner, three at-large appointments,
one member of the Soil and Water Conservation District Board) serving two-year
terms. Initially, five will be for one year and five for two years, to create
staggered terms.
(Ord. – , passed 8-4-2003)
Statutory reference:
   County parks and recreational programs, see G.S. §§ 153A-444, 160A-350 et
seq.
   National Park, Parkway and Forests Development Council, see G.S. §§ 143B-446
et seq.
   State forests and parks, see G.S. §§ 113-29 et seq.
   State Parks and Recreation Council, see G.S. §§ 143B-324.1 through 143B-
324.3
§ 30.002 DUTIES.
   The Open Space and Parks Advisory Committee shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Keep the Board of Commissioners and the general public fully informed
of its activities at all times;
   (B)   Advise and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners from
time to time with respect to parks, recreation, and open space programs,
facilities, resources, and needs of the county;
   (C)   Recommend development of parks, recreation, and open space programs
designed to serve equitably all citizens of the county without regard to race,
age, sex, creed or national origin;
   (D)   Advise in the coordination of county parks and open space programs and
facilities with that of private, public or semi-public agencies;
   (E)   Upon request of the Board of Commissioners, recommend any useful
actions pertaining to acquisition, lease, sale, exchange, gift, grant or
bequest of real property for parks, recreation, or open space purposes;
   (F)   Cooperate fully with all departments and agencies of the county
government to the fullest extent possible commensurate with resources
available;
   (G)   Foster, promote and encourage the development of appropriate,
wholesome parks, recreation and open space facilities with the county by the
public and private sectors; and
   (H)   Perform such other duties assigned by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. – , passed 8-4-2003)
HUMAN SERVICES BOARD
§ 30.025 CREATED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by Chapter 690 of the 1995 Session Laws of
the state (the Enabling Act), being G.S. § 153A-77, the Board of Health, Board
of Social Services and the Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities and
Substance Abuse Services Board of the county are hereby consolidated into the
County Human Services Board, which Board is hereby created.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.026 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of members appointed by the Wake County
Board of Commissioners pursuant to G.S. § 153A-77, as from time to time
amended.
   (B)   The Board reserves the right to name ex-officio members when state
requirements establish local advisory bodies who must report to and act upon
the authority of the Board. The Board, at its discretion, may name one officer
of the newly required body as an ex-officio member of the Board until that body
is dissolved, or until such time as the Board desires to nominate the ex-
officio member to fill a vacancy on the Board in the regularly prescribed
manner.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.027 OFFICERS.
   The board shall elect annually from its membership such officers as the
members deem necessary, including a Chairman and Vice Chairman, for the sound,
efficient, and effective functioning of the board. An individual may hold the
office of Chairman or Vice Chairman up to four consecutive years.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.028 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board shall have all of the powers enumerated in G.S. § 153A-77(d) as
from time to time amended.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.029 HUMAN SERVICES AGENCY AND DIRECTOR.
   The County Human Services Board and the County Manager shall, in accordance
with their respective responsibilities as established by the Enabling Act,
organize the consolidated human services agency and select a Human Services
Director.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.030 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is effective upon adoption.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
COUNTY LIBRARY
§ 30.045 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Division of the Wake
County Library Ordinance”.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.046 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created, in accordance with G.S. § 153A, Article 14,
the Division of the County Library.
   (B)   The Division of the County Library shall be a division of county
government and the employees thereof shall be employees of the county and shall
be subject to the provisions of Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.047 LIBRARY, AUTHORITY.
   The duties and authority of the Division of the County Library shall be, but
are not limited to, those specified in G.S. § 153A-263.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.048 LIBRARY COMMISSION, AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Board of Trustees of Wake County Public Libraries, as it
presently exists and as it is presently constituted shall continue to exist and
be so constituted, but shall, henceforth, be known as and be referred to as the
County Library Commission.
   (B)   The County Library Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To review and recommend long- and short-term proposed library
service policies, programs and regulations, including automation, projects,
developed by and with the library staff, to the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   To make recommendations concerning library buildings and the
property to the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   To review and recommend proposed schedules of fines and charges for
late returns of, failure to return, damage to and loss of library materials,
and other measures developed by and with the library staff to protect and to
regulate the use of the materials;
      (4)   To extend the privileges and use of the library system to
nonresidents of the county on terms or conditions as the Library Commission may
prescribe, subject to approval of the Board of County Commissioners;
      (5)   To review and approve submission of an annual report to the state,
Division of Cultural Resources, pursuant to G.S. § 125-5; and
      (6)   To advise and assist the county administration and the Board of
County Commissioners on any other policy or program concern relative to the
county library system including, but not limited to, fund raising, public
relations and volunteerism.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.049 CONTINUATION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES AS THE LIBRARY COMMISSION.
   The County Library Commission shall be composed of 14 members, with each
Commissioner nominating two members (one from the district and one may be at
large).
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. – , passed 8-19-1996)
§ 30.050 REAL PROPERTY OF LIBRARY.
   (A)   The county may acquire real property for the County Library by gift,
grant, purchase, lease, exercise of the power of eminent domain or any other
lawful method. Before acquiring real property by purchase, lease or exercise of
the power of eminent domain, the Board of County Commissioners shall seek the
recommendations of the County Library Commission.
   (B)   The title to all property acquired by the county for library purposes
shall be in the name of the county. If property is given, granted, devised,
bequeathed or otherwise conveyed to the County Library Commission or to the
county alone, it shall be deemed to have been conveyed to the county only and
shall be held in the name of the county.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.051 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on and after its adoption on March
20, 1996.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 30.065 ESTABLISHED.
   The Planning Board of the county, originally created pursuant to action by
the County Board of Commissioners on 11-2-1959, is hereby reconstituted,
pursuant to G.S. § 153A-321.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.066 PURPOSE.
   It is intended that the Planning Board function with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious development of the
county which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best and most
efficiently promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.067 DUTIES.
   The Planning Board shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for the county;
   (B)   Make studies of the county and surrounding areas;
   (C)   Recommend objectives to be sought in the development of the county;
   (D)   Prepare and recommend plans for achieving these objectives;
   (E)   Develop and recommend policies, chapters, administrative procedures
and other means for implementing plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (F)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the use and
implementation of plans;
   (G)    Exercise the functions in the administration and enforcement of
implementing plans as directed by the Board of Commissioners; and
   (H)   Perform any other related duties as directed by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.068 MEETINGS, RULES AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall meet at least monthly. The Board shall adopt rules
for transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its members’
attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations,
which shall be public record.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.069 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   The members of the Planning Board shall be entitled to reimbursement for
expenses for subsistence and travel related to their duties in accordance with
general county policy.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.070 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, VACANCIES AND OFFICERS.
   The Planning Board shall consist of ten members appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. All members shall be residents of the county. The terms of
members shall be set by the Board of Commissioners according to their current
appointment policy. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration
of terms shall be filled by the Board of Commissioners as they occur, for the
period of the unexpired term. Members may be removed for cause by the County
Commissioners. The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and create and fill
the offices as it may determine to be necessary. The term of the Chairperson
and other officers shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.071 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
CHAPTER 31: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Persons subject to this chapter
   
31.03   Delegation of duties
   
31.04   Equal employment opportunity
   
31.05   Positions and the position classification plan
   
31.06   Compensation
   
31.07   Performance reviews and rewards
   
31.08   Workdays and absences
   
31.09   Employee grievance procedure
   
31.10   Personnel records and reports
   
31.11   General employment procedures
   
31.12   Conflicting policies repealed
   
31.13   Severability
   
31.14   Retiree health insurance guidelines
   
31.15   Criminal history inquiries and background check policy
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform personnel system under
the guidance of the Board of Commissioners to provide for the selection,
appointment, training and career development, compensation, discipline and
other conditions of employment for employees of the county. The County Board of
Commissioners, as sole legislative authority for the county, does hereby
establish the following policies and principles of employment for the benefit
of all county employees, as defined herein. Pursuant to this chapter and in
accordance with the stated policies of the County Board of Commissioners, the
County Manager shall institute procedures to ensure proper and uniform
implementation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to all officers and employees
of the county, excluding specifically:
   (A)   Elected county officials;
   (B)   The County Manager, the County Attorney and the Clerk to the Board of
Commissioners;
   (C)   Members of advisory and special boards or commissions;
   (D)   Employees of elected county officials, other governmental entities or
agencies thereof, except where specifically made subject to any provision(s) of
this chapter by written agreement with the county;
   (E)   All employees of the County Emergency Management Program, except the
Program’s Director, to the extent that the State Personnel Commission has not
deemed the County Personnel System substantially equivalent to its own system
pursuant to G.S. § 126-11, and to the extent that the employees remain subject
to G.S. Chapter 126, Article 6;
   (F)   The Elections Director of the County Board of Elections, except that
this employee will be subject to the county’s position classification plan;
   (G)   Temporary employees, to the extent that they will not be subject to
county regulations governing appointment and separation, probationary periods,
disciplinary actions, reduction in force and nondiscrimination grievances; and
   (H)   Where inclusion of a position is in conflict with any state or federal
law.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.03 DELEGATION OF DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall determine employment
policies not inconsistent with other applicable law governing the employment of
all county employees subject to this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, the Board shall approve all compensation schedules,
policies and employee benefits affecting county officials, officers and
employees; determine the holidays observed by county offices; provide direction
to the County Manager in promulgating employment procedures; appoint a county
Revenue Director pursuant to procedures set forth in G.S. Chapter 105; and
perform any other duties required by G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 5, Part 4 or
other applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   The County Manager shall be the County Personnel Officer and
shall be responsible to the Commissioners for the administration and technical
direction of the county’s personnel program.
      (2)   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-82, and the policies stated in this
chapter, the County Manager shall have ultimate authority and responsibility
without prior approval from the Board of Commissioners for appointments,
suspensions, dismissals and other employment procedures of all employees except
those elected by the people or whose appointment is otherwise provided for by
law. To this end, the County Manager shall have the authority and duty to
establish employment procedures for the employees of county government subject
to the terms of this chapter and in accordance with future policy directives of
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.04 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   The county is committed to complying with all applicable federal,
state and local laws that pertain to employment and to providing a work
environment that is free from discrimination of any kind.
   (B)   Discrimination against applicants to and employees of Wake County
Government in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training,
classification, referral, and other aspects of employment on the basis of race,
color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and wages), national origin, age,
disability, genetics, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, family status or political affiliation is prohibited.
   (C)   Federal law and Wake County policy prohibit retaliating against a
person who files a charge of discrimination, participates in a discrimination
proceeding, or otherwise opposes an unlawful employment practice.
   (D)   The definitions of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and
wages), national origin, age, protected veteran status, disability and genetics
will be those promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
   (E)   The County Manager may institute procedures to ensure equal employment
opportunity and maintain Equal Employment.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006; Ord. passed 9-21-2015)
§ 31.05 POSITIONS AND THE POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   Positions of the county may be designated as permanent or temporary
and may be full time or part time.
   (B)   All appointments leading to regular status in full-time or part-time
permanent positions shall be subject to successful completion of a probationary
period. The probationary period shall be regarded as an integral part of the
selection process and shall be used for evaluating the employee’s performance
and adjustment to the position and for rejecting any employee whose performance
or conduct is unsatisfactory. The probationary period shall be 12 months,
except where probation of a different duration is proscribed by applicable law
or regulation. Employees in probationary status serve at the will of the
county. Employees who are not dismissed during the probationary period will be
deemed to have successfully completed their probation and will attain regular
status in the position.
   (C)   For purposes of administrative efficiency and proper personnel
management, the county shall maintain a current position classification plan
that standardizes position titles indicating the duties and responsibilities of
each position. The County Manager has delegated the administration and
maintenance of the classification plan to the Human Resources Director, who
shall determine the duties of each position and shall promulgate procedures to
establish, revise and maintain the classification plan so that it accurately
reflects the duties performed by each employee in the classification system.
The Human Resources Director shall make administrative amendments to the
classification plan which includes amending the job family, sub family, title
and level of positions as needed and based on labor market conditions.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006; Ord. passed 7-17-2007; Res.
passed 11-18-2019)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A plan of compensation for all positions shall be established by the
Board of Commissioners and shall be maintained on a current basis. The plan
will include salary bands commensurate with the responsibility and difficulty
of the work, and will take into account the prevailing compensation for
comparable positions in the recruiting area, in other agencies of government
and other relevant factors. It will provide for the salary advancement of
employees based upon performance, job requirements and job responsibilities.
   (B)   Each salary band will have a minimum, midpoint and maximum rate of
pay. Employees shall be paid only for hours worked plus paid leave as
authorized herein, except as provided for by the Department of Labor
regulations governing the fluctuating workweek. Absent the use of accrued
leave, the employee’s pay must be reduced for absences, for personal reasons or
because of illness or injury of less than one workday.
   (C)   Approval of all personnel actions shall be subject to the availability
of funds. The County Manager shall take no personnel action, which would expend
funds in excess of those appropriated for salaries and wages in a fiscal year.
   (D)   To reward the faithful service of regular employees who have at least
ten years of current and/or reinstated service coverage as an employee of the
county government under the state’s Local Governmental Employees’ Retirement
System or the state’s Law Enforcement Officers’ Retirement System, the County
Manager shall implement procedures for awarding an annual longevity payment
program. Eligibility requirements and the formula for calculating longevity
payments shall be approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Note:
Employees who are hired or re-employed on or after 6-16-1995, will not be
eligible for longevity pay.
   (E)   The County Manager shall establish general policies and procedures
governing compensation of employees who are newly hired, reinstated,
reclassified, promoted, demoted or transferred. The County Manager shall
establish and the Board of Commissioners shall approve rules and procedures not
inconsistent with state and federal law governing compensation for expenses,
overtime work, part-time work, temporary work, longevity payments, fringe
benefits and other matters. The Board of Commissioners must adopt any change in
compensation or benefits for county employees before the change can become
effective.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. O-93-8, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.07 PERFORMANCE REVIEWS AND REWARDS.
   (A)   For purposes of recognizing and rewarding quality work performance,
improving productivity and accountability, enhancing employee performance
through objective-setting and open communication, promoting career development,
maximizing individual employee potential and ensuring the efficient functioning
of county government, the County Manager shall maintain a system of performance
evaluation and performance increases.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall annually evaluate the performance of
the County Manager, the County Attorney and the Clerk to the Board. The County
Manager shall evaluate, at least annually, all other top management employees,
as senior administrative staff, department heads and nonelected officials.
   (C)   Subject to available funding, a performance increase may be awarded
based upon performance and position in the salary range. The County Manager
shall establish rules and procedures governing performance evaluations of, and
the award of performance increases to, county employees, which rules shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.08 WORKDAYS AND ABSENCES.
   (A)   General. County offices will be open for business on weekdays from the
hours of 8:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m., unless otherwise provided herein. A department
head may vary an employee's work schedule from these days and hours in
accordance with established administrative procedures or when the normal
performance of mandated departmental duties so requires.
   (B)   Holidays.
      (1)   The following days and the other days as the Board of Commissioners
may designate are holidays for the county government employees:
         (a)   New Year's Day;
         (b)   Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
         (c)   Good Friday;
         (d)   Memorial Day;
         (e)   Independence Day;
         (f)   Labor Day;
         (g)   Veteran's Day;
         (h)   Thanksgiving Day (two days);
         (i)   Christmas Day (three days); and
         (j)   Juneteenth.
      (2)   Employees who wish to observe religious holidays other than those
designated herein shall be allowed to request and take annual leave for the
purpose if their absence will not create a hardship on other county employees
or impair the efficient operation of the employee's office.
   (C)   Annual leave.
      (1)   It shall be the policy of the county to grant paid annual leave as
a privilege for its employees. Annual leave for probationary or regular full-
time (40-hour work period) employees shall be computed at the following rates:
 
Years of Current and Minutes Earned Each Hours Earned Each Days Earned in One
Reinstated Service   Month               Year              Year
Less than 5 years    560                 112               14
5 but less than 10   680                 136               17
years
10 but less than 15  800                 160               20
years
15 but less than 20  920                 184               23
years
20 years or more     1,040               208               26
 
      (2)   Benefits-eligible employees will accrue prorated annual leave in
direct proportion to annual scheduled work hours at the time of the accrual. No
employee may be granted annual leave in excess of the amount accumulated.
   (D)   Sick leave.
      (1)   Sick leave is a privilege granted to probationary and regular
county employees and may be used only in cases of personal illness, disability
or related examination or treatment of an employee of his or her immediate
family. Full-time (40-hour work period) employees shall earn sick leave at the
rate of 480 minutes per calendar month or 12 days per year. Benefits-eligible
employees will accrue prorated sick leave in direct proportion to the annual
scheduled work hours at the time of the accrual. Sick leave may be granted and
taken to allow an employee to attend a family member’s funeral or to tend an
ailing member of his or her immediate family. No employee may be granted sick
leave in excess of the amount accumulated.
      (2)   Effective July 1, 2024, Wake County also provides additional sick
leave based on the total years of Wake County service. Benefit-eligible
employees will accrue additional sick leave based on total years of service in
a Wake County benefit-eligible position up to a maximum of 240 days. All other
sick leave will accrue without a limit.
 
Additional Sick Leave
Years of Service Annual Contribution
5                60 days
10               60 days
15               60 days
20               60 days
Total            240 days
 
   (E)   Parental leave. Wake County offers paid parental leave to parents for
the birth, bonding and care of a child. The purpose of paid parental leave is
to allow up to eight weeks of paid leave for regular benefits eligible
employees of the County for: parental care of a newborn or a child placed for
adoption, foster care, or guardianship within 12 months of the qualifying
event. Paid parental leave is provided to supplement the unpaid leave provided
under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act and is provided in accordance
with the federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
   (F)   Community involvement leave. The County recognizes the value of
actively contributing to one's community and is committed to supporting
employee involvement in civic, educational and not-for-profit activities. Full-
time employees (scheduled for 2080 hours/year or 40 hours/week) shall earn
community involvement leave at the rate of 16 hours per calendar year. Benefit-
eligible employees with a different set of annual hours will receive community
involvement leave in direct proportion to their annual scheduled work hours.
   (G)   Bereavement Leave. Wake County understands the importance in
supporting employees as they grieve the loss of a family member. Full-time
employees (scheduled for 2,080 hours/year or 40 hours/week) shall receive
bereavement leave at the rate of 40 hours per calendar year. Benefit-eligible
employees with a different set of annual hours will receive bereavement leave
in direct proportion to their annual scheduled work hours.
   (H)   Military leave. Military leave will be granted, in accordance with
federal law, to any benefit eligible employee for active duty in the U.S.
military service. Military training leave is available to benefit eligible
employees for training required for continued membership in the National Guard
or Armed Forces reserve. Full-time employees (scheduled for 2,080 hours/year or
40 hours/week) shall earn military training leave at the rate of 96 hours per
calendar year. Benefit-eligible employees with a different set of annual hours
will receive military training leave in direct proportion to their annual
scheduled work hours.
   (I)   Civil leave. The following shall apply, except as may be otherwise
provided by the federal Family and Medical Leave Act, being 29 USC 2611 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
      (1)   All probationary and regular employees who serve on jury duty are
entitled to leave with pay for the period of absence required.
      (2)   When an employee is subpoenaed to testify in a matter related to
his or her employment, no leave is required. When an employee is subpoenaed to
appear as a witness in a civil or criminal trial or appears as the prosecuting
witness in a criminal proceeding, he or she may obtain civil leave with pay for
the purpose of testifying. When an employee attends a court hearing as a party
or interested party to the proceedings and the case is not connected with his
or her official duties, the employee must obtain unused holiday leave, annual
leave or leave without pay in accordance with county leave policy.
   (J)   Worker's compensation leave. An employee who is accidentally injured
on the job or who otherwise becomes eligible for Worker's Compensation shall
request Worker's Compensation leave instead of using sick leave. The employee
will not be compensated for the first seven days of disability unless the
disability continues for more than 21 days.
   (K)   Leave without pay. A probationary or regular employee may be granted a
leave of absence without pay for up to three months. This leave may be used for
extended personal or family disability, continuation of education, special work
that will permit the county to benefit by the experience gained or the work
performed, or other personal reasons. Leave without pay for purposes of covered
military and Public Health Service will be granted in accordance with federal
law. Failure to report to work at the expiration of a leave of absence will be
considered a resignation.
   (L)   Paid family illness leave. Wake County offers paid family illness
leave to employees for the care of a family member with a serious health
condition. The purpose of paid family medical leave is to allow up to three
weeks of paid leave for regular, full-time or part-time benefits eligible
employees of the county for a family member, as defined by county
administrative policy, undergoing recovery from or treatment of a serious
health condition as defined under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
   (M)   Wellness leave. Wake County supports the mental health and well-being
of its employees. Wellness leave provides employees two workdays of paid leave
per calendar year to destigmatize finding support for mental health concerns
and aims to increase workforce productivity by allowing employees to rejuvenate
and renew to bring enhanced creativity and focus to their roles.
   (N)   Administration of leave policies. The County Manager shall establish
rules and procedures governing the administration of leave benefits, including,
but not limited to, requests for and approval of leave, accrual and carry-over
of leave, reinstatement and transfer of leave benefits, supporting
documentation required for approval of leave and other matters as are necessary
or appropriate to implement the policies of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. O-93-8, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-17-2006; Ord.
passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 8- -2018; Res. passed 12-2-2019; Ord. passed 7-6-
2020; Ord. passed 10-3-2022; Res. passed 11-20-2023; Res. passed 1-2-2024)
§ 31.09 EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   A grievance may be filed by an employee for the following reasons: A written
warning, suspension, dismissal or an involuntary reduction in pay, rank or
status. For purposes of this chapter, position classifications, reductions in
force, failure to receive a performance increase, nonadoption of suggestions
and similar matters within the sole discretion of management are not normally
reviewable by a grievance proceeding. The county will provide a procedure for
presentation and settlement of grievances for all employees and former
employees except when preempted by the State Personnel Act. The County Manager
shall establish rules and procedures governing filing, processing and reviewing
of employee grievances and shall institute specific procedures to resolve
disputes involving allegations of unlawful employment discrimination.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.10 PERSONNEL RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   Only the personnel records as are necessary for the proper administration of
the county personnel system will be maintained. All information contained in a
county employee’s personnel file shall be classified as confidential
information unless otherwise designated in G.S. § 153A-98. The County Manager
shall establish controls to protect confidential information from unauthorized
access or disclosure. The County Manager also shall establish the other rules
and procedures as are reasonably necessary to ensure the personnel records are
adequately maintained. Current and former county employees and applicants for
county employment shall be considered employees for the purposes of this
section.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.11 GENERAL EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In addition to regulations implementing those policies set out above,
the County Manager shall have the authority and responsibility to implement
such rules and procedures as deemed necessary for the proper administration of
the county personnel system.
   (B)   When designating rules and regulations, the County Manager shall be
guided by the following principles.
      (1)   All persons expressing an interest in employment with the county
will be given an opportunity to apply for vacant positions.
      (2)   Recognizing the need of each employee to fulfill his or her maximum
potential, the county will “promote from within” whenever feasible.
      (3)   All appointments and promotions will be made solely on the basis of
bona fide occupational qualifications.
      (4)   The County Manager will encourage participation in personnel
training and development programs which enhance an employee’s skills and
promote effective public service.
      (5)   (a)   Disciplinary actions, such as written warnings, suspensions,
demotions and dismissals, may be taken only against employees who violate
established work rules or standards of conduct; fail to meet performance
expectations; or fail to obtain or maintain credentials, required by law or
otherwise.
         (b)   When disciplinary actions are based on the employee’s personal
misconduct, the severity of the disciplinary action imposed will depend upon
factors as the seriousness of the misconduct, the employee’s prior work record,
the employee’s knowledge of the rules or standards involved and the motive
behind the employee’s misconduct.
         (c)   When disciplinary actions are based on poor work performance or
violation of work rules, a regular employee must have been given an opportunity
to make his or her work performance satisfactory.
         (d)   Prior to suspension without pay, demotion or dismissal, a
regular employee must be given oral or written notice of the charges against
him or her, an explanation of the evidence supporting those charges, and an
opportunity to present his or her side of the story.
      (6)   Reductions in force may result from changes in programs, cutbacks
in funding, reorganization or decreased workload. Affected employees will be
evaluated for continued employment on the basis of seniority and past
performance.
      (7)   Employees may engage in political activities away from work and
outside of working hours, in accordance with state and federal law. However,
political activity has no place in the conduct of county employment or service
to the public. Use of county time, supplies or equipment for political purposes
is prohibited.
      (8)   Employees shall not accept gifts or favors in any way related to
their position with the county.
      (9)   Outside employment may be restricted to prevent interference with
efficient county service.
      (10)    Employment of relatives may be restricted to minimize problems in
the workplace.
   (C)   All administrative regulations shall be consistent with the Board of
Commissioners’ stated employment policies as set out herein and supplemented or
revised from time to time and with other federal, state and local law.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.12 CONFLICTING POLICIES REPEALED.
   All policies, ordinances or resolutions that conflict with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or any rule, regulation or order
thereunder, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstances
is held invalid, the remaining provisions of this chapter or application of
those provisions to persons or circumstances other than those held invalid will
not be affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.14 RETIREE HEALTH INSURANCE GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Eligibility requirements. To be eligible to participate in the retiree
health benefits program, an employee must be a benefit eligible, vested
employee who:
      (1)   Shall have been hired before July 1, 2011 and have remained
continuously employed in a benefits eligible position with Wake County; and
      (2)   Must have reached the years of service threshold through their
employment with Wake County as described in division (B) and as determined by
the original hire date; the years of service eligibility for retiree health
insurance is to be calculated consistently with that of the NC Local Government
Retirement System, factoring in only the years of service with Wake County; and
      (3)   Must be eligible for retirement by satisfying the current years of
service requirements of the Local Government Retirement System for early, full,
or disability retirement at the time of separation from Wake County; regardless
of whether the employee applies for or begins receiving retirement benefits at
the time of his separation from Wake County government; and
      (4)   Shall be enrolled in the county's retiree health insurance program
prior to separation from the county.
      (5)   The following definitions are applicable to be eligible for retiree
health insurance:
         BENEFITS ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE. An employee who is full-time or who is
part-time, working 20 or more hours per week.
         CONTINUOUSLY EMPLOYED. Includes a recall/reinstatement within one year
of the date of a separation as defined as of April 1, 2012 in Wake County Human
Resources Administration Manual.
         VESTED EMPLOYEE. One who has 5+ years with the NC Local Government
Retirement System. Being vested does not necessarily qualify the employee for
retiree health insurance; the employee must meet the Wake County years of
service, as defined below.
         YEARS OF SERVICE. Actual years of service with Wake County in a
benefits eligible position. Time in a non-benefits eligible part-time position,
temporary position, contract role, etc. does not count towards "years of
service". A YEAR OF SERVICE is to be calculated similarly to that of the NC
Local Government Retirement System.
   (B)   Retiree contributions. The contribution structure for retiree health
insurance is based on date of hire, with respect to the amount that is paid for
employee only coverage. Retirees pay the full cost of dependent coverage per
division (C). The contribution structure is as follows:
      (1)   For benefits eligible employees hired or reinstated on or before
May 15,1994:
 
Wake County Service Payment of Employee Contributions
Less than 5 Years   Not Eligible
5 to 9 Years        Retiree Pays 100%
10 or more Years    County Pays 100%
 
      (2)   For benefits eligible employees hired or reinstated after May
15,1994 but on or before April 15, 1997:
 
Wake County Service Payment of Employee Contributions
Less than 10 Years  Not Eligible
10 to 19 Years      Retiree Pays 50%
20 or more Years    County Pays 100%
 
      (3)   For benefits eligible employees hired or reinstated after April
15,1997 but on or before June 30, 2011:
 
Wake County Service Payment of Employee Contributions
Less than 20 Years  Not Eligible
20 or more Years    County Pays 100%
 
      (4)   Employees hired or rehired after June 30, 2011 are not eligible for
retiree health insurance benefits. Employees reinstated after June 30, 2011 may
be eligible if all conditions outlined in the applicable Wake County Human
Resources Administrative Manual.
      (5)   The county reserves the right to implement contribution surcharges
according to programs and policies so long as premium surcharges are within
federal and state regulations. Such surcharges would apply to pre-65 retirees
and their applicable dependents.
      (6)   Failure to provide a timely payment of retiree medical insurance
contributions, including any applicable surcharges, may result in the
cancellation of retiree health insurance for the retiree and dependents.
   (C)   Coverage of dependents. The ability to cover dependents and the
associated cost of such coverage, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Separation from employment shall be considered a qualifying life
event for purposes of electing dependent coverage and therefore eligible
retirees may choose to cover any dependents, legal spouses or children, at the
time of separation. Dependents are to be covered at the retiree's expense,
where the retiree pays the same rate as active employees.
      (2)   Dependents not enrolled in the health plan at the time of
separation may not be added to the retiree's health insurance at a later date.
Such changes are also not permissible upon a qualifying life event.
      (3)   Post separation, retirees may only drop coverage for dependents
with a qualifying life event and/or annually during open enrollment. Once
retiree health coverage for a dependent has been dropped, the dependent may not
be reinstated into coverage through the Wake County retiree health plan.
      (4)   Upon the death of the retiree, dependent coverage terminates.
Coverage may be offered in accordance with the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act (COBRA); eligible spouses and dependents who elect COBRA
coverage will be responsible for the rates associated with any elections.
      (5)   A "qualifying life event" is defined by § 125 of the Internal
Revenue Services and includes events such as death, divorce, change in health
coverage due to employment, child reaching the age in which coverage is no
longer available as governed by the health plan regulations for active
employee, etc.
   (D)   Medicare eligibility. Upon becoming Medicare eligible, retiree health
insurance will be provided by an alternate county-sponsored health plan.
   (E)   Forefeitting coverage. If a retiree declines coverage, fails to elect
coverage at the time of separation or chooses to drop coverage, the retiree
shall forfeit his/her retiree medical insurance benefit.
   (F)   Implementation. The County Manager shall institute human resources
policies and procedures to implement the requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 7-10-2023)
§ 31.15 CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES AND BACKGROUND CHECK POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the County of Wake that the initial application
form used to gather information from job applicants shall not require any
applicant to disclose prior criminal convictions, but shall contain a prominent
notice informing all job applicants that “Position may require a background
check. Unless required by state law, a record of conviction will not
automatically exclude you from consideration for employment.
   (B)   Unless otherwise required by state law, Wake County will conduct a
background check on an applicant once an applicant’s credentials have been
reviewed, it has been determined that the applicant is otherwise qualified for
a position, and the applicant has been recommended for hire by the department
where the vacancy exists.
   (C)   The results of a background check cannot be used as a basis for
denying employment unless the denial of employment is determined to be due to
job-related issues or business necessity. To meet the job- related or business
necessity, the following factors will be considered for those applicants with a
history of criminal convictions in determining whether to hire the applicant;
the nature and gravity of the offense and its relationship to the position, the
time that has passed since the conviction and/or completion of sentence, the
number (if more than one) of convictions, the individual’s age at the time of
the offense, and whether hiring the applicant would pose a risk to the business
and other evidence regarding fitness for the position such as character
references.
   (D)   The County Manager may institute human resources policies and
procedures to ensure consistent and fair application of the policy.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2016)
CHAPTER 32: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Deadly Weapons and Concealed Handguns
   
32.01   Unlawful to display weapon
   
32.02   Prohibited while in or about county-owned building; posting
   
32.03   Exclusions
Smoking
   
32.15   Prohibiting smoking and the use of tobacco products and vapor products
in county buildings, in county vehicles, on county grounds, and in indoor
public places
Identity Theft Red Flag Rules
   
32.20   Title
   
32.21   Purpose
   
32.22   Enactment
   
32.23   Definitions
   
32.24   Identity theft prevention program
   
32.25   Establishing a covered account
   
32.26   Access to covered account information
   
32.27   Credit card payments
   
32.28   Identifying red flags
   
32.29   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
32.30   Updating the program
   
32.31   Program administration
   
32.32   Vendor and service providers
DEADLY WEAPONS AND CONCEALED HANDGUNS
§ 32.01 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLAY WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display any deadly weapon while
on any county-owned or controlled property.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, DEADLY WEAPON shall have the same meaning
as defined in G.S. Chapter 14, Article 35.
(Ord. O-97-8A, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.02 PROHIBITED WHILE IN OR ABOUT COUNTY-OWNED BUILDING; POSTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a concealed handgun while
in or about any county-owned building, their appurtenant premises and parks.
   (B)   The County Manager is directed to post on the premises a conspicuous
notice or notices, as he or she shall decide, declaring that the carrying of
concealed handguns is prohibited.
(Ord. O-97-8A, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   This prohibition shall not apply as set forth in G.S. § 14-269(b). Section
32.01 shall not apply to any activity carried out on a county-owned or
controlled firing range.
(Ord. O-97-8A, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
SMOKING
§ 32.15 PROHIBITING SMOKING AND THE USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
IN COUNTY BUILDINGS, IN COUNTY VEHICLES, ON COUNTY GROUNDS, AND IN INDOOR
PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is enacted pursuant to G.S. § 130A-498 and
G.S. § 153A-121.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
      COUNTY BUILDING. A building owned by Wake County, leased as lessor by
Wake County, or the area leased as lessee by Wake County and/or occupied by
Wake County, within the meaning of "local government building" as defined by
G.S. § 130A-492(8).
      COUNTY GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by Wake
County within the meaning of "grounds" as defined by G.S. § 130A-492(6). This
includes Wake County parks, playgrounds and athletic fields, greenways, trails,
and open space lands owned, leased, or occupied by Wake County.
      COUNTY VEHICLE. A passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by Wake County and assigned permanently or temporarily by Wake
County to Wake County employees, agencies, institutions, or facilities for
official Wake County business, within the meaning of "local vehicle" as defined
by G.S. § 130A-492(9).
      INDOOR PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or
in which the public is permitted, within the meaning of "public place" as
defined by G.S. § 130A-492(14). A private residence is not a public place.
      MANAGER. The individual exercising the powers and duties of manager for
Wake County pursuant to G.S. § 153A-82.
      SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product as defined by G.S. § 130A-
492(16).
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco or nicotine,
irrespective of whether the nicotine is tobacco-derived or synthetic, and is
intended for human consumption, as defined by G.S. § 14-313(4). As used in this
subchapter, TOBACCO PRODUCT includes but is not limited to: cigarettes, cigars,
pipe tobacco, electronic cigarettes, hookah, smoked or vaped tobacco
substitutes, chewing tobacco, snuff, snus, dissolvable tobacco products, and
heated tobacco products. As used in this subchapter, TOBACCO PRODUCT does not
include nicotine replacement products approved by the U.S. FDA for treatment of
tobacco use and dependence.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any non-combustible product that employs a mechanical
heating element, battery, or electronic circuit regardless of shape or size
that can be used to heat a liquid nicotine solution contained in a vapor
cartridge as defined by G.S. § 14-313(5).
   (C)   Areas where smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor
products are prohibited. 
      (1)   Smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor products are
prohibited in any county building, any county vehicle, and on any county
grounds. The prohibition on smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor
products in these places includes those times when they are being used for
private events.
      (2)   Smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor products are
prohibited in any indoor public place located within unincorporated Wake
County. The prohibition on smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor
products in indoor public places includes those times when they are being used
for private events.
      (3)   The prohibition on smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of
vapor products in indoor public places does not apply to those specific places
identified in G.S. § 130A-498(b1) as being exempt from smoking restrictions,
including certain tobacco shops, premises of tobacco products manufacturers and
tobacco growers, designated smoking guest rooms in lodging establishments,
certain cigar bars, private clubs, and live motion picture, television, or
theater production sets.
      (4)   The Manager shall direct conspicuous and clear signage to be posted
at reasonable intervals in all county buildings and grounds where smoking, use
of tobacco products, and use of vapor products are prohibited by this
subchapter.
      (5)   This subchapter does not prohibit smoking, use of tobacco products,
and use of vapor products on public streets or sidewalks.
   (D)   Public education. Wake County shall engage in an ongoing program to
explain and clarify the purposes and requirements of this subchapter to
residents and businesses affected by it, and guide operators and managers in
their compliance with it. In doing so, Wake County may rely on materials and
information provided by the Wake County Department of Health and Human
Services.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2015; Res. passed 11-9-2022)
IDENTITY THEFT RED FLAG RULES
§ 32.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Wake County Identity
Theft Red Flag Rules Ordinance of Wake County.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide an identity theft prevention
program that complies with Federal Trade Regulations 16 CFR 168.2.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.22 ENACTMENT.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by Federal Trade Commissions 16 CFR 168.2,
and for the purpose of complying with federal regulations requirement that a
creditor establish an identity theft prevention program which will use red
flags to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft related information used
in covered accounts, the Wake County Board of Commissioners hereby enacts this
subchapter, which shall be known as the Wake County Identity Theft Red Flags
Rules Ordinance of Wake County, North Carolina
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT.  A continuing relationship established by a person with a financial
institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family,
household or business purposes. ACCOUNT includes:
      (1)   An extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or
services involving a deferred payment; and
      (2)   A deposit account.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   COUNTY. County of Wake.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment debt or
to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a financial institution
or creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.  A person's credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and drivers
license information and for a natural person includes their social security
number, mother's birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER.  A person that provides a service directly to the county.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.24 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requires creditors to implement an
identity theft program. The FTC requirement and regulation is necessary in
order to comply with Part 681 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations
implementing Sections 114 and 315 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions
Act (FACTA) of 2003.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   To open an account a customer shall provide a valid government issued
identification card with a valid photo ID.
   (B)   The customer will be issued a random account number to be associated
with the covered account information.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.26 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized county personnel.
   (B)   Password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis, and in accordance
with the county's IT password security policy.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported to the Information Services Security Officer and Internal Audit.
   (D)   Any requests for customer account information, other than from a
properly identified customer, shall be reported to the Information Services
Security Officer.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.27 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   A vendor that processes credit card payments over the Internet shall
certify that it has an identity theft program prevention program which meets
the requirements of the Federal Trade and Regulation requirements under 16 CFR
168.2.
   (B)   Credit card payments made by telephone shall be entered immediately
into the computer database for customer account information.
   (C)   Account statements, receipts and invoices for covered accounts shall
include four digits of the credit card or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.28 IDENTIFYING RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include:
   (A)   Consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or service
providers. For example:
      (1)   Notice of credit freeze;
      (2)   Notice of address discrepancy;
      (3)   Pattern of activity in a consumer report that is inconsistent with
the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
         (a)   Increase in number of inquiries;
         (b)   Increase in recent credit relationships;
         (c)   Closed account due to abuse of account privileges.
   (B)   Suspicious documents.
      (1)   Documents that appeared altered or forged;
      (2)   Identification that appears altered or information is inconsistent
with information provided by customer;
      (3)   Applications that appear altered or forged.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
      (1)   Personal identification information inconsistent with information
reported from a financial institution;
      (2)   Personal identification has been previously identified and flagged
as fraudulent;
      (3)   Fictitious mailing address, phone numbers, etc.;
      (4)   Social security number does not match that of the customer or
applicant.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
      (1)   An inactive account is used after a prolonged inactive period;
      (2)   Noticeable change in pattern of account activity;
      (3)   Customer notifies the Finance Director or her designee of
unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer's account.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft relating to covered accounts.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.29 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   If a county employee suspects or confirms that a security breach has
occurred, the employee shall:
   (A)   Contact Information Security Services, Internal Audit and the Wake
County Attorney's Office. Information Security Services and the Wake County
Attorney's Office will assist the employee with notifying the customer and law
enforcement agency.
   (B)   Upon confirming an unauthorized use or access, the System
Administrator shall contact change any account numbers, passwords, security
codes, or other security devices that permit access to the account; or close
the account.
   (C)   The county department with the assistance of the IS Security Officer,
shall determine date of the breach and collect charges for the account that are
attributable to the customer.
   (D)   Any other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity theft as
proscribed by each department's internal policies and procedures.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.30 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   There shall be an annual review of this subchapter, or as more often as
required by either the Finance Director or the County Attorney to update the
identity theft program when the passage of new laws, statutes or discovered
risks that may affect the county's compliance with the Federal Trade Regulation
requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.31 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   The county program shall be administered by the Finance Director who is
responsible for the oversight, implementation and administration of the
identity theft program. The County Attorney's office is responsible for
reviewing reports prepared by the Finance Director for the purpose of
monitoring compliance and recommending material changes to the program. The
Wake County Board of County Commissioners shall approve any changes.
   (A)   The Finance Director will report at least annually on compliance with
the Federal Trade Regulations to the Wake County Board of County Commissioners,
or its designee. The report shall address the effectiveness of current policies
and procedures, service provider arrangements and recommendations for material
changes to the program.
   (B)   The Finance Director is responsible for training employees responsible
for or involved in opening a new covered account, restoring existing accounts
or accepting payment for a covered account.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.32 VENDOR AND SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the county engages a service provider to perform an
activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the Finance Director
shall exercise his or her discretions in reviewing such arrangements in order
to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider's
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider's activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate theft.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
CHAPTER 33: FEES
Section
   
33.01   Residential waste reduction fee
§ 33.01 RESIDENTIAL WASTE REDUCTION FEE.
   The residential waste reduction fee shall be established by the Board of
Commissioners. The fee shall be set as part of the annual budget process.
(Ord. O-95-3, passed 2-20-1995)
CHAPTER 34: NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section
   34.01   Definitions
   34.02   Public accommodations
   34.03   Employment and contracting
   34.04   Inclusive interpretation of sex and race discrimination
   34.05   Applicability; compliance with laws
   34.06   Severability
   34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONCILIATION. Attempted resolution of issues raised by a complainant through
informal means not involving court process.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any difference in treatment based on a protected class as
defined herein.
   EMPLOYER. Any person employing one or more persons within Wake County and
any person acting in the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly,
including an employment agency. EMPLOYER shall include Wake County and any Wake
County Contractor.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION. Having or being perceived as having gender-
related identity, expression, appearance, or behavior, whether or not that
identity, expression, appearance, or behavior is different from that
traditionally associated with the sex assigned to that individual at birth.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or other entity with a separate legal existence.
   PROTECTED CLASS. Race, natural hair or hairstyles, ethnicity, creed, color,
sex, pregnancy, marital or familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity
or expression, national origin or ancestry, National Guard or veteran status,
religious belief or non-belief, age or disability.
   31
2022 S-16
32   Wake County - Administration
   PROTECTED HAIRSTYLE. Any hairstyle, hair type, or hair texture historically
associated with race such as, but not limited to, braids, locks, twists, tight
coils or curls, cornrows, Bantu knots and afros.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any place, facility, store or other establishment
which supplies accommodations, goods or services to the public or which
solicits or accepts the patronage or trade of the general public. A PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION shall not include a religious organization and all of the
activities of the religious organization, or a non-profit fraternal or social
organization which restricts use of facilities and services to members and
their guests.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. A church, mosque, synagogue, temple, non-
denominational ministry, faith-based mission or faith-based entity that is
primarily devoted to the study, practice or advancement of religion.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.02 PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, employer, employee, agent,
keeper or manager in a place of public accommodation to deny any person the
full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities or
privileges thereof because of that person's inclusion within one or more
protected classes.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.03 EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any employer, because of the protected class
of any person, to fail or refuse to hire, discharge or otherwise discriminate
against that person with respect to tenure, promotion, transfer, compensation,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment, or any other matter directly or
indirectly related to employment.
   (B)   As a condition of submitting a bid or proposal to Wake County, the
bidder or proposer shall submit a certification of compliance with this
chapter. Failure to submit this certification or falsification of this
certification shall be grounds for rejection of the bid or termination of the
contract without fault to Wake County.
   (C)   An unlawful employment practice is established when the complaining
party demonstrates by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that a personal
characteristic or the status of the complaining party as a member of a
protected class was a motivating factor for the employment practice. An
employment practice shall not be considered unlawful if it is based upon a
neutral classification job related for the position in question and consistent
with business necessity or an exception recognized by Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
2022 S-16
   Non-Discrimination   33
§ 34.04 INCLUSIVE INTERPRETATION OF SEX AND RACE DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   Wake County interprets all legal prohibitions on sex discrimination to
include discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity and
gender expression.
   (B)   Wake County interprets all legal prohibitions on race discrimination
to include discrimination on the basis of protected hairstyles.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.05 APPLICABILITY; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-122, this chapter shall apply within the
jurisdictional limits of Wake County and is not applicable within the
territorial limits of a city or town, unless a municipal governing board opts
in, provided there is agreement to enforcement procedures through an interlocal
agreement.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to
create any requirement, power or duty in conflict with any existing federal,
state, or local law or either the federal or North Carolina constitutions,
including but not limited to the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.06 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any portion of this chapter, or the application thereof to any
person, is declared or adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional, then such
declaration or adjudication shall not affect the remaining provisions of this
chapter, or its application to other persons; and the chapter shall remain in
full force and effect as if the portion so declared or adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional was not originally a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Complaints regarding alleged violations of this chapter should be
filed with the County Manager's Office within 90 days of the alleged
discriminatory act on the complaint form provided by the county. The County
Manager shall determine if the complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the
county, and if so, with the help of the County Attorney shall investigate the
complaint and seek information from the respondent (party complained of). If a
complaint is factually validated, then the county will offer voluntary
conciliation to resolve the dispute between the complainant and the respondent.
2022 S-16
34   Wake County - Administration
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of other remedies available by law, any
person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to an enforcement
action brought by the county under G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e) for an
appropriate equitable remedy, including but not limited to a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction commanding the defendant to correct the conduct
prohibited under this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter does not create and is not intended to create any
individual right, privilege or benefit, whether substantive or procedural,
enforceable at law or in equity by any party against Wake County, its agencies,
departments or any other officers, elected officials or employees or any other
person or entity, including respondents.
   (D)   This section shall not limit the remedies available to any person
under state or federal law.
   (E)   Violation of this chapter does not constitute a criminal offense in
accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
 
2022 S-16
 
 
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               Chapter
                     30.   COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND
                        DEPARTMENTS
                     31.   PERSONNEL POLICY
                     32.   COUNTY POLICIES
                     33.   FEES
                     34.   NON-DISCRIMINATION
   1
2022 S-16
2   Wake County - Administration
   CHAPTER 30: COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Open Space and Parks Advisory Committee
   30.001   Creation and appointment
   30.002   Duties
Human Services Board
   30.025   Created
   30.026   Composition and appointment
   30.027   Officers
   30.028   Powers and duties of Board
   30.029   Human Services Agency and Director
   30.030   Effective date
County Library
   30.045   Title
   30.046   Creation
   30.047   Library, authority
   30.048   Library Commission, authority
   30.049   Continuation of the Board of Trustees as the Library Commission   
   30.050   Real property of library
   30.051   Effective date
Planning Board
   30.065   Established
   30.066   Purpose
   30.067   Duties
   30.068   Meetings, rules and records
   30.069   Compensation and expenses
   30.070   Membership, terms, vacancies and officers
   30.071   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management Agency, see Chapter 70
   Historic Preservation Commission, see Chapter 151
   3
4   Wake County - Administration
   OPEN SPACE AND PARKS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
 
§ 30.001 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Open Space and Parks Advisory Committee is hereby created, consisting of
11 members (one appointed by each commissioner, three at-large appointments,
one member of the Soil and Water Conservation District Board) serving two-year
terms. Initially, five will be for one year and five for two years, to create
staggered terms.
(Ord. – , passed 8-4-2003)
Statutory reference:
   County parks and recreational programs, see G.S. §§ 153A-444, 160A-350 et
seq.
   National Park, Parkway and Forests Development Council, see G.S. §§ 143B-446
et seq.
   State forests and parks, see G.S. §§ 113-29 et seq.
   State Parks and Recreation Council, see G.S. §§ 143B-324.1 through 143B-
324.3
§ 30.002 DUTIES.
   The Open Space and Parks Advisory Committee shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Keep the Board of Commissioners and the general public fully informed
of its activities at all times;
   (B)   Advise and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners from
time to time with respect to parks, recreation, and open space programs,
facilities, resources, and needs of the county;
   (C)   Recommend development of parks, recreation, and open space programs
designed to serve equitably all citizens of the county without regard to race,
age, sex, creed or national origin;
   (D)   Advise in the coordination of county parks and open space programs and
facilities with that of private, public or semi-public agencies;
   (E)   Upon request of the Board of Commissioners, recommend any useful
actions pertaining to acquisition, lease, sale, exchange, gift, grant or
bequest of real property for parks, recreation, or open space purposes;
   (F)   Cooperate fully with all departments and agencies of the county
government to the fullest extent possible commensurate with resources
available;
   Committees, Commissions, Boards and Departments   5
   (G)   Foster, promote and encourage the development of appropriate,
wholesome parks, recreation and open space facilities with the county by the
public and private sectors; and
   (H)   Perform such other duties assigned by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. – , passed 8-4-2003)
   HUMAN SERVICES BOARD
§ 30.025 CREATED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by Chapter 690 of the 1995 Session Laws of
the state (the Enabling Act), being G.S. § 153A-77, the Board of Health, Board
of Social Services and the Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities and
Substance Abuse Services Board of the county are hereby consolidated into the
County Human Services Board, which Board is hereby created.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.026 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of members appointed by the Wake County
Board of Commissioners pursuant to G.S. § 153A-77, as from time to time
amended.
   (B)   The Board reserves the right to name ex-officio members when state
requirements establish local advisory bodies who must report to and act upon
the authority of the Board. The Board, at its discretion, may name one officer
of the newly required body as an ex-officio member of the Board until that body
is dissolved, or until such time as the Board desires to nominate the ex-
officio member to fill a vacancy on the Board in the regularly prescribed
manner.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.027 OFFICERS.
   The board shall elect annually from its membership such officers as the
members deem necessary, including a Chairman and Vice Chairman, for the sound,
efficient, and effective functioning of the board. An individual may hold the
office of Chairman or Vice Chairman up to four consecutive years.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
6   Wake County - Administration
§ 30.028 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board shall have all of the powers enumerated in G.S. § 153A-77(d) as
from time to time amended.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.029 HUMAN SERVICES AGENCY AND DIRECTOR.
   The County Human Services Board and the County Manager shall, in accordance
with their respective responsibilities as established by the Enabling Act,
organize the consolidated human services agency and select a Human Services
Director.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 30.030 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is effective upon adoption.
(Ord. O-96-18, passed 7-8-1996)
   COUNTY LIBRARY
§ 30.045 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Division of the Wake
County Library Ordinance”.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.046 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created, in accordance with G.S. § 153A, Article 14,
the Division of the County Library.
   (B)   The Division of the County Library shall be a division of county
government and the employees thereof shall be employees of the county and shall
be subject to the provisions of Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
   Committees, Commissions, Boards and Departments   7
§ 30.047 LIBRARY, AUTHORITY.
   The duties and authority of the Division of the County Library shall be, but
are not limited to, those specified in G.S. § 153A-263.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.048 LIBRARY COMMISSION, AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Board of Trustees of Wake County Public Libraries, as it
presently exists and as it is presently constituted shall continue to exist and
be so constituted, but shall, henceforth, be known as and be referred to as the
County Library Commission.
   (B)   The County Library Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To review and recommend long- and short-term proposed library
service policies, programs and regulations, including automation, projects,
developed by and with the library staff, to the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   To make recommendations concerning library buildings and the
property to the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   To review and recommend proposed schedules of fines and charges for
late returns of, failure to return, damage to and loss of library materials,
and other measures developed by and with the library staff to protect and to
regulate the use of the materials;
      (4)   To extend the privileges and use of the library system to
nonresidents of the county on terms or conditions as the Library Commission may
prescribe, subject to approval of the Board of County Commissioners;
      (5)   To review and approve submission of an annual report to the state,
Division of Cultural Resources, pursuant to G.S. § 125-5; and
      (6)   To advise and assist the county administration and the Board of
County Commissioners on any other policy or program concern relative to the
county library system including, but not limited to, fund raising, public
relations and volunteerism.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.049 CONTINUATION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES AS THE LIBRARY COMMISSION.
   The County Library Commission shall be composed of 14 members, with each
Commissioner nominating two members (one from the district and one may be at
large).
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. – , passed 8-19-1996)
8   Wake County - Administration
§ 30.050 REAL PROPERTY OF LIBRARY.
   (A)   The county may acquire real property for the County Library by gift,
grant, purchase, lease, exercise of the power of eminent domain or any other
lawful method. Before acquiring real property by purchase, lease or exercise of
the power of eminent domain, the Board of County Commissioners shall seek the
recommendations of the County Library Commission.
   (B)   The title to all property acquired by the county for library purposes
shall be in the name of the county. If property is given, granted, devised,
bequeathed or otherwise conveyed to the County Library Commission or to the
county alone, it shall be deemed to have been conveyed to the county only and
shall be held in the name of the county.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 30.051 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on and after its adoption on March
20, 1996.
(Ord. O-96-12, passed 3-20-1996)
   PLANNING BOARD
§ 30.065 ESTABLISHED.
   The Planning Board of the county, originally created pursuant to action by
the County Board of Commissioners on 11-2-1959, is hereby reconstituted,
pursuant to G.S. § 153A-321.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.066 PURPOSE.
   It is intended that the Planning Board function with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious development of the
county which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best and most
efficiently promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.067 DUTIES.
   The Planning Board shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for the county;
   Committees, Commissions, Boards and Departments   9
   (B)   Make studies of the county and surrounding areas;
   (C)   Recommend objectives to be sought in the development of the county;
   (D)   Prepare and recommend plans for achieving these objectives;
   (E)   Develop and recommend policies, chapters, administrative procedures
and other means for implementing plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (F)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the use and
implementation of plans;
   (G)    Exercise the functions in the administration and enforcement of
implementing plans as directed by the Board of Commissioners; and
   (H)   Perform any other related duties as directed by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.068 MEETINGS, RULES AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall meet at least monthly. The Board shall adopt rules
for transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its members’
attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations,
which shall be public record.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.069 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   The members of the Planning Board shall be entitled to reimbursement for
expenses for subsistence and travel related to their duties in accordance with
general county policy.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.070 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, VACANCIES AND OFFICERS.
   The Planning Board shall consist of ten members appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. All members shall be residents of the county. The terms of
members shall be set by the Board of Commissioners according to their current
appointment policy. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration
of terms shall be filled by the Board of Commissioners as they occur, for the
period of the unexpired term. Members may be removed for cause by the County
Commissioners. The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and create and fill
the offices as it may determine to be necessary. The term of the Chairperson
and other officers shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
10   Wake County - Administration
§ 30.071 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. O-93-20, passed 9-20-1993)
   CHAPTER 31: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   31.01   Purpose
   31.02   Persons subject to this chapter
   31.03   Delegation of duties
   31.04   Equal employment opportunity
   31.05   Positions and the position classification plan
   31.06   Compensation
   31.07   Performance reviews and rewards
   31.08   Workdays and absences
   31.09   Employee grievance procedure
   31.10   Personnel records and reports
   31.11   General employment procedures
   31.12   Conflicting policies repealed
   31.13   Severability
   31.14   Retiree health insurance guidelines
   31.15   Criminal history inquiries and background check policy
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform personnel system under
the guidance of the Board of Commissioners to provide for the selection,
appointment, training and career development, compensation, discipline and
other conditions of employment for employees of the county. The County Board of
Commissioners, as sole legislative authority for the county, does hereby
establish the following policies and principles of employment for the benefit
of all county employees, as defined herein. Pursuant to this chapter and in
accordance with the stated policies of the County Board of Commissioners, the
County Manager shall institute procedures to ensure proper and uniform
implementation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to all officers and employees
of the county, excluding specifically:
   
   (A)   Elected county officials;
   11
2019 S-13
12   Wake County - Administration
   (B)   The County Manager, the County Attorney and the Clerk to the Board of
Commissioners;
   (C)   Members of advisory and special boards or commissions;
   (D)   Employees of elected county officials, other governmental entities or
agencies thereof, except where specifically made subject to any provision(s) of
this chapter by written agreement with the county;
   (E)   All employees of the County Emergency Management Program, except the
Program’s Director, to the extent that the State Personnel Commission has not
deemed the County Personnel System substantially equivalent to its own system
pursuant to G.S. § 126-11, and to the extent that the employees remain subject
to G.S. Chapter 126, Article 6;
   (F)   The Elections Director of the County Board of Elections, except that
this employee will be subject to the county’s position classification plan;
   (G)   Temporary employees, to the extent that they will not be subject to
county regulations governing appointment and separation, probationary periods,
disciplinary actions, reduction in force and nondiscrimination grievances; and
   (H)   Where inclusion of a position is in conflict with any state or federal
law.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.03   DELEGATION OF DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall determine employment
policies not inconsistent with other applicable law governing the employment of
all county employees subject to this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, the Board shall approve all compensation schedules,
policies and employee benefits affecting county officials, officers and
employees; determine the holidays observed by county offices; provide direction
to the County Manager in promulgating employment procedures; appoint a county
Revenue Director pursuant to procedures set forth in G.S. Chapter 105; and
perform any other duties required by G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 5, Part 4 or
other applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   The County Manager shall be the County Personnel Officer and
shall be responsible to the Commissioners for the administration and technical
direction of the county’s personnel program.
      (2)   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-82, and the policies stated in this
chapter, the County Manager shall have ultimate authority and responsibility
without prior approval from the Board of Commissioners for appointments,
suspensions, dismissals and other employment procedures of all employees except
those elected by the people or whose appointment is otherwise provided for by
law. To this end, the County Manager shall have the authority and duty to
establish employment procedures for the employees of county government subject
to the terms of this chapter and in accordance with future policy directives of
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
2019 S-13
   Personnel Policy   13
§ 31.04 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   The county is committed to complying with all applicable federal,
state and local laws that pertain to employment and to providing a work
environment that is free from discrimination of any kind.
   (B)   Discrimination against applicants to and employees of Wake County
Government in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training,
classification, referral, and other aspects of employment on the basis of race,
color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and wages), national origin, age,
disability, genetics, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, family status or political affiliation is prohibited.
   (C)   Federal law and Wake County policy prohibit retaliating against a
person who files a charge of discrimination, participates in a discrimination
proceeding, or otherwise opposes an unlawful employment practice.
   (D)   The definitions of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and
wages), national origin, age, protected veteran status, disability and genetics
will be those promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
   (E)   The County Manager may institute procedures to ensure equal employment
opportunity and maintain Equal Employment.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006; Ord. passed 9-21-2015)
§ 31.05 POSITIONS AND THE POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   Positions of the county may be designated as permanent or temporary
and may be full time or part time.
   (B)   All appointments leading to regular status in full-time or part-time
permanent positions shall be subject to successful completion of a probationary
period. The probationary period shall be regarded as an integral part of the
selection process and shall be used for evaluating the employee’s performance
and adjustment to the position and for rejecting any employee whose performance
or conduct is unsatisfactory. The probationary period shall be 12 months,
except where probation of a different duration is proscribed by applicable law
or regulation. Employees in probationary status serve at the will of the
county. Employees who are not dismissed during the probationary period will be
deemed to have successfully completed their probation and will attain regular
status in the position.
   (C)   For purposes of administrative efficiency and proper personnel
management, the county shall maintain a current position classification plan
that standardizes position titles indicating the duties and responsibilities of
each position. The County Manager has delegated the administration and
maintenance of the classification plan to the Human Resources Director, who
shall determine the duties of each position and shall promulgate procedures to
establish, revise and maintain the classification plan so that it accurately
reflects the duties performed by each employee in the classification system.
The Human
2020 S-14
14   Wake County - Administration
Resources Director shall make administrative amendments to the classification
plan which includes amending the job family, sub family, title and level of
positions as needed and based on labor market conditions.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006; Ord. passed 7-17-2007; Res.
passed 11-18-2019)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A plan of compensation for all positions shall be established by the
Board of Commissioners and shall be maintained on a current basis. The plan
will include salary bands commensurate with the responsibility and difficulty
of the work, and will take into account the prevailing compensation for
comparable positions in the recruiting area, in other agencies of government
and other relevant factors.
It will provide for the salary advancement of employees based upon performance,
job requirements and job responsibilities.
   (B)   Each salary band will have a minimum, midpoint and maximum rate of
pay. Employees shall be paid only for hours worked plus paid leave as
authorized herein, except as provided for by the Department of Labor
regulations governing the fluctuating workweek. Absent the use of accrued
leave, the employee’s pay must be reduced for absences, for personal reasons or
because of illness or injury of less than one workday.
   (C)   Approval of all personnel actions shall be subject to the availability
of funds. The County Manager shall take no personnel action, which would expend
funds in excess of those appropriated for salaries and wages in a fiscal year.
   (D)   To reward the faithful service of regular employees who have at least
ten years of current and/or reinstated service coverage as an employee of the
county government under the state’s Local Governmental Employees’ Retirement
System or the state’s Law Enforcement Officers’ Retirement System, the County
Manager shall implement procedures for awarding an annual longevity payment
program. Eligibility requirements and the formula for calculating longevity
payments shall be approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Note:
Employees who are hired or re-employed on or after 6-16-1995, will not be
eligible for longevity pay.
   (E)   The County Manager shall establish general policies and procedures
governing compensation of employees who are newly hired, reinstated,
reclassified, promoted, demoted or transferred. The County Manager shall
establish and the Board of Commissioners shall approve rules and procedures not
inconsistent with state and federal law governing compensation for expenses,
overtime work, part-time work, temporary work, longevity payments, fringe
benefits and other matters. The Board of Commissioners must adopt any change in
compensation or benefits for county employees before the change can become
effective.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. O-93-8, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
2020 S-14
   Personnel Policy   14A
§ 31.07 PERFORMANCE REVIEWS AND REWARDS.
   (A)   For purposes of recognizing and rewarding quality work performance,
improving productivity and accountability, enhancing employee performance
through objective-setting and open communication, promoting career development,
maximizing individual employee potential and ensuring the efficient functioning
of county government, the County Manager shall maintain a system of performance
evaluation and performance increases.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall annually evaluate the performance of
the County Manager, the County Attorney and the Clerk to the Board. The County
Manager shall evaluate, at least annually, all other top management employees,
as senior administrative staff, department heads and nonelected officials.
   (C)   Subject to available funding, a performance increase may be awarded
based upon performance and position in the salary range. The County Manager
shall establish rules and procedures governing performance evaluations of, and
the award of performance increases to, county employees, which rules shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.08 WORKDAYS AND ABSENCES.
   (A)   General. County offices will be open for business on weekdays from the
hours of 8:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m., unless otherwise provided herein. A department
head may vary an employee's work schedule from these days and hours in
accordance with established administrative procedures or when the normal
performance of mandated departmental duties so requires.
   (B)   Holidays.
      (1)   The following days and the other days as the Board of Commissioners
may designate are holidays for the county government employees:
         (a)   New Year's Day;
         (b)   Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
         (c)   Good Friday;
         (d)   Memorial Day;
         (e)   Independence Day;
         (f)   Labor Day;
2018 S-10
14B   Wake County - Administration
         (g)   Veteran's Day;
         (h)   Thanksgiving Day (two days);
         (i)   Christmas Day (three days); and
         (j)   Juneteenth.
      (2)   Employees who wish to observe religious holidays other than those
designated herein shall be allowed to request and take annual leave for the
purpose if their absence will not create a hardship on other county employees
or impair the efficient operation of the employee's office.
   (C)   Annual leave.
      (1)   It shall be the policy of the county to grant paid annual leave as
a privilege for its employees. Annual leave for probationary or regular full-
time (40-hour work period) employees shall be computed at the following rates:
 
Years of Current and Minutes Earned Each Hours Earned Each Days Earned in One
Reinstated Service   Month               Year              Year
Less than 5 years    560                 112               14
5 but less than 10   680                 136               17
years
10 but less than 15  800                 160               20
years
15 but less than 20  920                 184               23
years
20 years or more     1,040               208               26
 
      (2)   Benefits-eligible employees will accrue prorated annual leave in
direct proportion to annual scheduled work hours at the time of the accrual. No
employee may be granted annual leave in excess of the amount accumulated.
   (D)   Sick leave. Sick leave is a privilege granted to probationary and
regular county employees and may be used only in cases of personal illness,
disability or related examination or treatment of an employee or his or her
immediate family. Full-time (40-hour work period) employees shall earn sick
leave at the rate of 480 minutes per calendar month or 12 days per year.
Benefits-eligible employees will accrue prorated sick leave in direct
proportion to the annual scheduled work hours at the time of the accrual. Sick
leave may be granted and taken to allow an employee to attend a family member's
funeral or to tend an ailing member of his or her immediate family. No employee
may be granted sick leave in excess of the amount accumulated.
2022 S-16
   Personnel Policy   14C
   (E)   Parental leave. Wake County offers paid parental leave to parents for
the birth, bonding and care of a child. The purpose of paid parental leave is
to allow up to eight weeks of paid leave for regular benefits eligible
employees of the County for: parental care of a newborn or a child placed for
adoption, foster care, or guardianship within 12 months of the qualifying
event. Paid parental leave is provided to supplement the unpaid leave provided
under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act and is provided in accordance
with the federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
   (F)   Community involvement leave. The County recognizes the value of
actively contributing to one's community and is committed to supporting
employee involvement in civic, educational and not-for-profit activities. Full-
time employees (scheduled for 2080 hours/year or 40 hours/week) shall earn
community involvement leave at the rate of 16 hours per calendar year. Benefit-
eligible employees with a different set of annual hours will receive community
involvement leave in direct proportion to their annual scheduled work hours.
   (G)   Bereavement Leave. Wake County understands the importance in
supporting employees as they grieve the loss of a family member. Full-time
employees (scheduled for 2,080 hours/year or 40 hours/week) shall receive
bereavement leave at the rate of 40 hours per calendar year. Benefit-eligible
employees with a different set of annual hours will receive bereavement leave
in direct proportion to their annual scheduled work hours.
   (H)   Military leave. Military leave will be granted, in accordance with
federal law, to any benefit eligible employee for active duty in the U.S.
military service. Military training leave is available to benefit eligible
employees for training required for continued membership in the National Guard
or Armed Forces reserve. Full-time employees (scheduled for 2,080 hours/year or
40 hours/week) shall earn military training leave at the rate of 96 hours per
calendar year. Benefit-eligible employees with a different set of annual hours
will receive military training leave in direct proportion to their annual
scheduled work hours.
   (I)   Civil leave. The following shall apply, except as may be otherwise
provided by the federal Family and Medical Leave Act, being 29 USC 2611 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
      (1)   All probationary and regular employees who serve on jury duty are
entitled to leave with pay for the period of absence required.
      (2)   When an employee is subpoenaed to testify in a matter related to
his or her employment, no leave is required. When an employee is subpoenaed to
appear as a witness in a civil or criminal trial or appears as the prosecuting
witness in a criminal proceeding, he or she may obtain civil leave with pay for
the purpose of testifying. When an employee attends a court hearing as a party
or interested party to the proceedings and the case is not connected with his
or her official duties, the employee must obtain unused holiday leave, annual
leave or leave without pay in accordance with county leave policy.
   (J)   Worker's compensation leave. An employee who is accidentally injured
on the job or who otherwise becomes eligible for Worker's Compensation shall
request Worker's Compensation leave instead of using sick leave. The employee
will not be compensated for the first seven days of disability unless the
disability continues for more than 21 days.
2020 S-14
14D   Wake County - Administration
   Personnel Policy   15
   (K)   Leave without pay. A probationary or regular employee may be granted a
leave of absence without pay for up to three months. This leave may be used for
extended personal or family disability, continuation of education, special work
that will permit the county to benefit by the experience gained or the work
performed, or other personal reasons. Leave without pay for purposes of covered
military and Public Health Service will be granted in accordance with federal
law. Failure to report to work at the expiration of a leave of absence will be
considered a resignation.
   (L)   Paid family illness leave. Wake County offers paid family illness
leave to employees for the care of a family member with a serious health
condition. The purpose of paid family medical leave is to allow up to three
weeks of paid leave for regular, full-time or part-time benefits eligible
employees of the county for a family member, as defined by county
administrative policy, undergoing recovery from or treatment of a serious
health condition as defined under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
   (M)   Administration of leave policies. The County Manager shall establish
rules and procedures governing the administration of leave benefits, including,
but not limited to, requests for and approval of leave, accrual and carry-over
of leave, reinstatement and transfer of leave benefits, supporting
documentation required for approval of leave and other matters as are necessary
or appropriate to implement the policies of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. O-93-8, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-17-2006; Ord.
passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 8- -2018; Res. passed 12-2-2019; Ord. passed 7-6-
2020)
§ 31.09   EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   A grievance may be filed by an employee for the following reasons: A written
warning, suspension, dismissal or an involuntary reduction in pay, rank or
status. For purposes of this chapter, position classifications, reductions in
force, failure to receive a performance increase, nonadoption of suggestions
and similar matters within the sole discretion of management are not normally
reviewable by a grievance proceeding. The county will provide a procedure for
presentation and settlement of grievances for all employees and former
employees except when preempted by the State Personnel Act. The County Manager
shall establish rules and procedures governing filing, processing and reviewing
of employee grievances and shall institute specific procedures to resolve
disputes involving allegations of unlawful employment discrimination.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.10 PERSONNEL RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   Only the personnel records as are necessary for the proper administration of
the county personnel system will be maintained. All information contained in a
county employee’s personnel file shall be classified as confidential
information unless otherwise designated in G.S. § 153A-98. The County Manager
shall establish controls to protect confidential information from unauthorized
access or disclosure. The County Manager also shall establish the other rules
and procedures as are reasonably
2022 S-16
16   Wake County - Administration
necessary to ensure the personnel records are adequately maintained. Current
and former county employees and applicants for county employment shall be
considered employees for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.11 GENERAL EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In addition to regulations implementing those policies set out above,
the County Manager shall have the authority and responsibility to implement
such rules and procedures as deemed necessary for the proper administration of
the county personnel system.
   (B)   When designating rules and regulations, the County Manager shall be
guided by the following principles.
      (1)   All persons expressing an interest in employment with the county
will be given an opportunity to apply for vacant positions.
      (2)   Recognizing the need of each employee to fulfill his or her maximum
potential, the county will “promote from within” whenever feasible.
      (3)   All appointments and promotions will be made solely on the basis of
bona fide occupational qualifications.
      (4)   The County Manager will encourage participation in personnel
training and development programs which enhance an employee’s skills and
promote effective public service.
      (5)   (a)   Disciplinary actions, such as written warnings, suspensions,
demotions and dismissals, may be taken only against employees who violate
established work rules or standards of conduct; fail to meet performance
expectations; or fail to obtain or maintain credentials, required by law or
otherwise.
         (b)   When disciplinary actions are based on the employee’s personal
misconduct, the severity of the disciplinary action imposed will depend upon
factors as the seriousness of the misconduct, the employee’s prior work record,
the employee’s knowledge of the rules or standards involved and the motive
behind the employee’s misconduct.
         (c)   When disciplinary actions are based on poor work performance or
violation of work rules, a regular employee must have been given an opportunity
to make his or her work performance satisfactory.
         (d)   Prior to suspension without pay, demotion or dismissal, a
regular employee must be given oral or written notice of the charges against
him or her, an explanation of the evidence supporting those charges, and an
opportunity to present his or her side of the story.
2018 S-10
   Personnel Policy   17
      (6)   Reductions in force may result from changes in programs, cutbacks
in funding, reorganization or decreased workload. Affected employees will be
evaluated for continued employment on the basis of seniority and past
performance.
      (7)   Employees may engage in political activities away from work and
outside of working hours, in accordance with state and federal law. However,
political activity has no place in the conduct of county employment or service
to the public. Use of county time, supplies or equipment for political purposes
is prohibited.
      (8)   Employees shall not accept gifts or favors in any way related to
their position with the county.
      (9)   Outside employment may be restricted to prevent interference with
efficient county service.
   
      (10)    Employment of relatives may be restricted to minimize problems in
the workplace.
   (C)   All administrative regulations shall be consistent with the Board of
Commissioners’ stated employment policies as set out herein and supplemented or
revised from time to time and with other federal, state and local law.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.12 CONFLICTING POLICIES REPEALED.
   All policies, ordinances or resolutions that conflict with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or any rule, regulation or order
thereunder, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstances
is held invalid, the remaining provisions of this chapter or application of
those provisions to persons or circumstances other than those held invalid will
not be affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1985; Ord. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 31.14 RETIREE HEALTH INSURANCE GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Eligibility requirements. To be eligible to participate in the retiree
health benefits program, an employee must be a benefit eligible, vested
employee who:
2018 S-10
18   Wake County - Administration
      (1)   Shall have been hired before July 1, 2011 and have remained
continuously employed in a benefits eligible position with Wake County; and
      (2)   Must have reached the years of service threshold through their
employment with Wake County as described in division (B) and as determined by
the original hire date; the years of service eligibility for retiree health
insurance is to be calculated consistently with that of the NC Local Government
Retirement System, factoring in only the years of service with Wake County; and
      (3)   Must be eligible for retirement by satisfying the current years of
service requirements of the Local Government Retirement System for early, full,
or disability retirement at the time of separation from Wake County; regardless
of whether the employee applies for or begins receiving retirement benefits at
the time of his separation from Wake County government; and
      (4)   Shall be enrolled in the county's retiree health insurance program
prior to separation from the county.
      (5)   The following definitions are applicable to be eligible for retiree
health insurance:
         BENEFITS ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE. An employee who is full-time or who is
part-time, working 20 or more hours per week.
         CONTINUOUSLY EMPLOYED. Includes a recall/reinstatement within one year
of the date of a separation as defined as of April 1, 2012 in Wake County Human
Resources Administration Manual.
         VESTED EMPLOYEE. One who has 5+ years with the NC Local Government
Retirement System. Being vested does not necessarily qualify the employee for
retiree health insurance; the employee must meet the Wake County years of
service, as defined below.
         YEARS OF SERVICE. Actual years of service with Wake County in a
benefits eligible position. Time in a non-benefits eligible part-time position,
temporary position, contract role, etc. does not count towards "years of
service". A YEAR OF SERVICE is to be calculated similarly to that of the NC
Local Government Retirement System.
   (B)   Retiree contributions. The contribution structure for retiree health
insurance is based on date of hire, with respect to the amount that is paid for
employee only coverage. Retirees pay the full cost of dependent coverage per
division (C). The contribution structure is as follows:
2018 S-10
   Personnel Policy   19
      (1)   For benefits eligible employees hired or reinstated on or before
May 15,1994:
 
Wake County Service Payment of Employee Contributions
Less than 5 Years   Not Eligible
5 to 9 Years        Retiree Pays 100%
10 or more Years    County Pays 100%
 
      (2)   For benefits eligible employees hired or reinstated after May
15,1994 but on or before April 15, 1997:
 
Wake County Service Payment of Employee Contributions
Less than 10 Years  Not Eligible
10 to 19 Years      Retiree Pays 50%
20 or more Years    County Pays 100%
 
      (3)   For benefits eligible employees hired or reinstated after April
15,1997 but on or before June 30, 2011:
 
Wake County Service Payment of Employee Contributions
Less than 20 Years  Not Eligible
20 or more Years    County Pays 100%
 
      (4)   Employees hired or rehired after June 30, 2011 are not eligible for
retiree health insurance benefits. Employees reinstated after June 30, 2011 may
be eligible if all conditions outlined in the applicable Wake County Human
Resources Administrative Manual.
      (5)   The county reserves the right to implement contribution surcharges
according to programs and policies so long as premium surcharges are within
federal and state regulations. Such surcharges would apply to pre-65 retirees
and their applicable dependents.
      (6)   Failure to provide a timely payment of retiree medical insurance
contributions, including any applicable surcharges, may result in the
cancellation of retiree health insurance for the retiree and dependents.
   (C)   Coverage of dependents. The ability to cover dependents and the
associated cost of such coverage, shall be as follows:
2018 S-10
20   Wake County - Administration
      (1)   Separation from employment shall be considered a qualifying life
event for purposes of electing dependent coverage and therefore eligible
retirees may choose to cover any dependents, legal spouses or children, at the
time of separation. Dependents are to be covered at the retiree's expense,
where the retiree pays the same rate as active employees.
      (2)   Dependents not enrolled in the health plan at the time of
separation may not be added to the retiree's health insurance at a later date.
Such changes are also not permissible upon a qualifying life event.
      (3)   Post separation, retirees may only drop coverage for dependents
with a qualifying life event and/or annually during open enrollment. Once
retiree health coverage for a dependent has been dropped, the dependent may not
be reinstated into coverage through the Wake County retiree health plan.
      (4)   Upon the death of the retiree, dependent coverage terminates.
Coverage may be offered in accordance with the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act (COBRA); eligible spouses and dependents who elect COBRA
coverage will be responsible for the rates associated with any elections.
      (5)   A "qualifying life event" is defined by § 125 of the Internal
Revenue Services and includes events such as death, divorce, change in health
coverage due to employment, child reaching the age in which coverage is no
longer available as governed by the health plan regulations for active
employee, etc.
   (D)   Medicare eligibility. Once a retiree is Medicare eligible, retiree
health insurance with the county will pay secondary as indicated within our
benefit plan document.
   (E)   Forefeitting coverage. If a retiree declines coverage, fails to elect
coverage at the time of separation or chooses to drop coverage, the retiree
shall forfeit his/her retiree medical insurance benefit.
   (F)   Implementation. The County Manager shall institute human resources
policies and procedures to implement the requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 31.15 CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES AND BACKGROUND CHECK POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the County of Wake that the initial application
form used to gather information from job applicants shall not require any
applicant to disclose prior criminal convictions, but shall contain a prominent
notice informing all job applicants that “Position may require a background
check. Unless required by state law, a record of conviction will not
automatically exclude you from consideration for employment.
2019 S-13
   Personnel Policy   20A
   (B)   Unless otherwise required by state law, Wake County will conduct a
background check on an applicant once an applicant’s credentials have been
reviewed, it has been determined that the applicant
is otherwise qualified for a position, and the applicant has been recommended
for hire by the department where the vacancy exists.
   (C)   The results of a background check cannot be used as a basis for
denying employment unless the denial of employment is determined to be due to
job-related issues or business necessity. To meet the job-related or business
necessity, the following factors will be considered for those applicants with a
history of criminal convictions in determining whether to hire the applicant;
the nature and gravity of the offense and its relationship to the position, the
time that has passed since the conviction and/or completion of sentence, the
number (if more than one) of convictions, the individual’s age at the time of
the offense, and whether hiring the applicant would pose a risk to the business
and other evidence regarding fitness for the position such as character
references.
   (D)   The County Manager may institute human resources policies and
procedures to ensure consistent and fair application of the policy.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2016)
 
2019 S-13
20B   Wake County - Administration
   CHAPTER 32: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Deadly Weapons and Concealed Handguns
   32.01   Unlawful to display weapon
   32.02   Prohibited while in or about county-owned building; posting
   32.03   Exclusions
Smoking
   32.15   Smoking, tobacco and vapor product use
   Identity Theft Red Flag Rules
   32.20   Title
   32.21   Purpose
   32.22   Enactment
   32.23   Definitions
   32.24   Identity theft prevention program
   32.25   Establishing a covered account
   32.26   Access to covered account information
   32.27   Credit card payments
   32.28   Identifying red flags
   32.29   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   32.30   Updating the program
   32.31   Program administration
   32.32   Vendor and service providers
DEADLY WEAPONS AND CONCEALED HANDGUNS
§ 32.01 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLAY WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display any deadly weapon while
on any county-owned or controlled property.
   21
2017 S-9
22   Wake County - Administration
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, DEADLY WEAPON shall have the same meaning
as defined in G.S. Chapter 14, Article 35.
(Ord. O-97-8A, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.02 PROHIBITED WHILE IN OR ABOUT COUNTY-OWNED BUILDING; POSTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a concealed handgun while
in or about any county- owned building, their appurtenant premises and parks.
   (B)   The County Manager is directed to post on the premises a conspicuous
notice or notices, as he or she shall decide, declaring that the carrying of
concealed handguns is prohibited.
(Ord. O-97-8A, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   This prohibition shall not apply as set forth in G.S. § 14-269(b). Section
32.01 shall not apply to any activity carried out on a county-owned or
controlled firing range.
(Ord. O-97-8A, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see § 10.99
SMOKING
§ 32.15 SMOKING, TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCT USE.
   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is enacted pursuant to G.S. 130A-498 and
G.S. 153A-121.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
      SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product as defined by G.S § 130A-492
(16).
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any non-combustible product that employs a mechanical
heating element, battery, or electronic circuit regardless of shape or size and
that can be used to heat a liquid nicotine solution contained in a vapor
cartridge as defined by G.S. § 14-313(5).
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption, as defined by G.S. § 14-313(4). As used in this subchapter,
this does not include a tobacco product regulated by USFDA and prescribed for
smoking cessation.
      
2017 S-9
   County Policies   22A
      COUNTY BUILDING. A building owned by Wake County, leased as lessor by
Wake County, or the area leased as lessee by Wake County and/or occupied by
Wake County, within the meaning of LOCAL GOVERNMENT BUILDING as defined by G.S.
§ 130A-492(8).
      COUNTY VEHICLE. A passenger carrying vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by Wake County and assigned permanently or temporarily by Wake
County to Wake County employees, agencies, institutions, or facilities for
official Wake County business, within the meaning of "local vehicle" as defined
by G.S. § 130A-492(9).
      COUNTY GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by Wake
County, within the meaning of "grounds " as defined by G.S. § 130A-492(6). This
includes Wake County parks, playgrounds and athletic fields, greenways, trails,
and open space lands owned, leased, or occupied by Wake County.
      MANAGER. The individual exercising the powers and duties of manager for
Wake County pursuant to G.S. § 153A-82.
   (C)   Areas where smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor
products are prohibited.
      (1)   Smoking, use of tobacco products, and use of vapor products are
prohibited in any county building, any county vehicle, and on any county
grounds.
      (2)   The Manager shall direct conspicuous and clear signage to be posted
at reasonable intervals at all county buildings and grounds where smoking, use
of tobacco products, and use of vapor products are prohibited by this
subchapter.
      (3)   This subchapter does not prohibit smoking, use of tobacco products,
and use of vapor products on streets, rights of way, sidewalks, or other
property not owned or leased by Wake County as lessor or lessee.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2015)
   IDENTITY THEFT RED FLAG RULES
§ 32.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Wake County Identity
Theft Red Flag Rules Ordinance of Wake County.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
2017 S-9
22B   Wake County - Administration
   County Policies   23
§ 32.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide an identity theft prevention
program that complies with Federal Trade Regulations 16 CFR 168.2.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.22 ENACTMENT.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by Federal Trade Commissions 16 CFR 168.2,
and for the purpose of complying with federal regulations requirement that a
creditor establish an identity theft prevention program which will use red
flags to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft related information used
in covered accounts, the Wake County Board of Commissioners hereby enacts this
subchapter, which shall be known as the Wake County Identity Theft Red Flags
Rules Ordinance of Wake County, North Carolina
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT.  A continuing relationship established by a person with a financial
institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family,
household or business purposes. ACCOUNT includes:
      (1)   An extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or
services involving a deferred payment; and
      (2)   A deposit account.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
2009 S-1
24   Wake County - Administration
   COUNTY. County of Wake.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment debt or
to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a financial institution
or creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.  A person's credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and drivers
license information and for a natural person includes their social security
number, mother's birth name, and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER.  A person that provides a service directly to the county.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.24 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requires creditors to implement an
identity theft program. The FTC requirement and regulation is necessary in
order to comply with Part 681 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations
implementing Sections 114 and 315 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions
Act (FACTA) of 2003.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   To open an account a customer shall provide a valid government issued
identification card with a valid photo ID.
2009 S-1
   County Policies   25
   (B)   The customer will be issued a random account number to be associated
with the covered account information.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.26 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized county personnel.
   (B)   Password(s) shall be changed on a regular basis, and in accordance
with the county's IT password security policy.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported to the Information Services Security Officer and Internal Audit.
   (D)   Any requests for customer account information, other than from a
properly identified customer, shall be reported to the Information Services
Security Officer.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.27 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   A vendor that processes credit card payments over the Internet shall
certify that it has an identity theft program prevention program which meets
the requirements of the Federal Trade and Regulation requirements under 16 CFR
168.2.
   (B)   Credit card payments made by telephone shall be entered immediately
into the computer database for customer account information.
   (C)   Account statements, receipts and invoices for covered accounts shall
include four digits of the credit card or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.28 IDENTIFYING RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include:
2009 S-1
26   Wake County - Administration
   (A)   Consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or service
providers. For example:
      (1)   Notice of credit freeze;
      (2)   Notice of address discrepancy;
      (3)   Pattern of activity in a consumer report that is inconsistent with
the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
         (a)   Increase in number of inquiries;
         (b)   Increase in recent credit relationships;
         (c)   Closed account due to abuse of account privileges.
   (B)   Suspicious documents.
      (1)   Documents that appeared altered or forged;
      (2)   Identification that appears altered or information is inconsistent
with information provided by customer;
      (3)   Applications that appear altered or forged.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
      (1)   Personal identification information inconsistent with information
reported from a financial institution;
      (2)   Personal identification has been previously identified and flagged
as fraudulent;
      (3)   Fictitious mailing address, phone numbers, etc.;
      (4)   Social security number does not match that of the customer or
applicant.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
      (1)   An inactive account is used after a prolonged inactive period;
      (2)   Noticeable change in pattern of account activity;
2009 S-1
   County Policies   27
      (3)   Customer notifies the Finance Director or her designee of
unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer's account.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft relating to covered accounts.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.29 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   If a county employee suspects or confirms that a security breach has
occurred, the employee shall:
   (A)   Contact Information Security Services, Internal Audit and the Wake
County Attorney's Office. Information Security Services and the Wake County
Attorney's Office will assist the employee with notifying the customer and law
enforcement agency.
   (B)   Upon confirming an unauthorized use or access, the System
Administrator shall contact change any account numbers, passwords, security
codes, or other security devices that permit access to the account; or close
the account.
   (C)   The county department with the assistance of the IS Security Officer,
shall determine date of the breach and collect charges for the account that are
attributable to the customer.
   (D)   Any other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity theft as
proscribed by each department's internal policies and procedures.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.30 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   There shall be an annual review of this subchapter, or as more often as
required by either the Finance Director or the County Attorney to update the
identity theft program when the passage of new laws, statutes or discovered
risks that may affect the county's compliance with the Federal Trade Regulation
requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.31 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   The county program shall be administered by the Finance Director who is
responsible for the oversight, implementation and administration of the
identity theft program. The County Attorney's office
2009 S-1
28   Wake County - Administration
is responsible for reviewing reports prepared by the Finance Director for the
purpose of monitoring compliance and recommending material changes to the
program. The Wake County Board of County Commissioners shall approve any
changes.
   (A)   The Finance Director will report at least annually on compliance with
the Federal Trade Regulations to the Wake County Board of County Commissioners,
or its designee. The report shall address the effectiveness of current policies
and procedures, service provider arrangements and recommendations for material
changes to the program.
   (B)   The Finance Director is responsible for training employees responsible
for or involved in opening a new covered account, restoring existing accounts
or accepting payment for a covered account.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 32.32 VENDOR AND SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the county engages a service provider to perform an
activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the Finance Director
shall exercise his or her discretions in reviewing such arrangements in order
to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider's
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider's activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate theft.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
 
2009 S-1
   CHAPTER 33: FEES
Section
   33.01   Residential waste reduction fee
§ 33.01 RESIDENTIAL WASTE REDUCTION FEE.
   The residential waste reduction fee shall be established by the Board of
Commissioners. The fee shall be set as part of the annual budget process.
(Ord. O-95-3, passed 2-20-1995)
 
   29
2009 S-1
30   Wake County - Administration
CHAPTER 34: NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Public accommodations
   
34.03   Employment and contracting
   
34.04   Inclusive interpretation of sex and race discrimination
   
34.05   Applicability; compliance with laws
   
34.06   Severability
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONCILIATION. Attempted resolution of issues raised by a complainant through
informal means not involving court process.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any difference in treatment based on a protected class as
defined herein.
   EMPLOYER. Any person employing one or more persons within Wake County and
any person acting in the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly,
including an employment agency. EMPLOYER shall include Wake County and any Wake
County Contractor.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION. Having or being perceived as having gender-
related identity, expression, appearance, or behavior, whether or not that
identity, expression, appearance, or behavior is different from that
traditionally associated with the sex assigned to that individual at birth.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or other entity with a separate legal existence.
   PROTECTED CLASS. Race, natural hair or hairstyles, ethnicity, creed, color,
sex, pregnancy, marital or familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity
or expression, national origin or ancestry, National Guard or veteran status,
religious belief or non-belief, age or disability.
   PROTECTED HAIRSTYLE. Any hairstyle, hair type, or hair texture historically
associated with race such as, but not limited to, braids, locks, twists, tight
coils or curls, cornrows, Bantu knots and afros.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any place, facility, store or other establishment
which supplies accommodations, goods or services to the public or which
solicits or accepts the patronage or trade of the general public. A PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION shall not include a religious organization and all of the
activities of the religious organization, or a non-profit fraternal or social
organization which restricts use of facilities and services to members and
their guests.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. A church, mosque, synagogue, temple, non-
denominational ministry, faith-based mission or faith-based entity that is
primarily devoted to the study, practice or advancement of religion.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.02 PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, employer, employee, agent,
keeper or manager in a place of public accommodation to deny any person the
full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities or
privileges thereof because of that person's inclusion within one or more
protected classes.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.03 EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any employer, because of the protected class
of any person, to fail or refuse to hire, discharge or otherwise discriminate
against that person with respect to tenure, promotion, transfer, compensation,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment, or any other matter directly or
indirectly related to employment.
   (B)   As a condition of submitting a bid or proposal to Wake County, the
bidder or proposer shall submit a certification of compliance with this
chapter. Failure to submit this certification or falsification of this
certification shall be grounds for rejection of the bid or termination of the
contract without fault to Wake County.
   (C)   An unlawful employment practice is established when the complaining
party demonstrates by clear, cogent and convincing evidence that a personal
characteristic or the status of the complaining party as a member of a
protected class was a motivating factor for the employment practice. An
employment practice shall not be considered unlawful if it is based upon a
neutral classification job related for the position in question and consistent
with business necessity or an exception recognized by Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.04 INCLUSIVE INTERPRETATION OF SEX AND RACE DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   Wake County interprets all legal prohibitions on sex discrimination to
include discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity and
gender expression.
   (B)   Wake County interprets all legal prohibitions on race discrimination
to include discrimination on the basis of protected hairstyles.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.05 APPLICABILITY; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-122, this chapter shall apply within the
jurisdictional limits of Wake County and is not applicable within the
territorial limits of a city or town, unless a municipal governing board opts
in, provided there is agreement to enforcement procedures through an interlocal
agreement.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to
create any requirement, power or duty in conflict with any existing federal,
state, or local law or either the federal or North Carolina constitutions,
including but not limited to the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.06 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any portion of this chapter, or the application thereof to any
person, is declared or adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional, then such
declaration or adjudication shall not affect the remaining provisions of this
chapter, or its application to other persons; and the chapter shall remain in
full force and effect as if the portion so declared or adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional was not originally a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Complaints regarding alleged violations of this chapter should be
filed with the County Manager's Office within 90 days of the alleged
discriminatory act on the complaint form provided by the county. The County
Manager shall determine if the complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the
county, and if so, with the help of the County Attorney shall investigate the
complaint and seek information from the respondent (party complained of). If a
complaint is factually validated, then the county will offer voluntary
conciliation to resolve the dispute between the complainant and the respondent.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of other remedies available by law, any
person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to an enforcement
action brought by the county under G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e) for an
appropriate equitable remedy, including but not limited to a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction commanding the defendant to correct the conduct
prohibited under this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter does not create and is not intended to create any
individual right, privilege or benefit, whether substantive or procedural,
enforceable at law or in equity by any party against Wake County, its agencies,
departments or any other officers, elected officials or employees or any other
person or entity, including respondents.
   (D)   This section shall not limit the remedies available to any person
under state or federal law.
   (E)   Violation of this chapter does not constitute a criminal offense in
accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
TITLE V: SOLID WASTE
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Purpose and statutory authority
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   General conditions
   
50.04   Storage and disposal
   
50.05   Licensing solid waste collectors
   
50.06   Collection and transportation
   
50.07   Revocation of solid waste collectors license
   
50.08   Sanitary landfill licensing
   
50.09   Sanitary landfill management
   
50.10   Land-clearing and inert debris landfill permit
   
50.11   Operation of land-clearing and inert debris landfill
   
50.12   Revocation of land-clearing and inert debris landfill permit
   
50.13   Open dumps
   
50.14   Licensing of hazardous and low level radioactive waste facilities
   
50.15   Solid waste containers sites
   
50.16   Residential backyard composting
   
50.17   Recyclable corrugated cardboard surcharge program
   
50.18   Flow control
   
50.19   Littering
   
50.20   Enforcement
   
50.21   Effective date
   
50.22   Franchise for construction and demolition debris landfills
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PURPOSE AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the storage, collection and
disposal of solid waste in the county. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the
authority contained in G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-132.1, 153A-136, 153A-274 through
153A-278, 153A-291 through 153A-293, and through 130A-309.09D. Unless otherwise
indicated, the chapter applies to both publicly-owned and privately-owned solid
waste management facilities located in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
   BULKY WASTE.  Large items of solid waste as household appliances, furniture,
automobiles, large auto parts, trees, branches, stumps and other oversize
wastes whose large size precludes or complicates their handling by normal solid
waste collection, processing or disposal methods.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste from a point of generation to a
central storage point or to a disposal site and from a central storage point to
a disposal site.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities excluding
residential, industrial and institutional wastes.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on building, or other
structures but does not include inert, land-clearing or yard waste debris or
used asphalt mixed with dirt, sand, gravel, rock, concrete or similar non-
hazardous material.
   DEPARTMENT. The state’s Department of Environment, Health and Natural
Resources.
   DIVISION. The County Division of Solid Waste Management, Community
Development Services Administration.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses and
recognizable industrial by-products, but excluding sewage and human waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid waste, or combination of solid wastes, that because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illness; or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when properly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   INCINERATION. The process of burning solid, semi-solid or gaseous
combustible wastes to an inoffensive gas and a residue containing little or no
combustible material.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial
processes that is not hazardous waste regulated under Subtitle C of RCRA. The
waste may include, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following
manufacturing processes: Electric power generation; fertilizer/agricultural
chemicals; food and related products/by products; inorganic chemicals; iron and
steel manufacturing; leather and leather products; nonferrous metals
manufacturing/founderies; organic chemicals; plastics and resins manufacturing;
pulp and paper industry; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone,
glass, clay, and concrete products; textile manufacturing; transportation
equipment; and waste treatment. This term does not include mining waste or oil
and gas waste.
   INERT DEBRIS. Solid waste that consists solely of material that is virtually
inert, as brick, concrete, rock and clean soil.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. A solid waste capable of producing an infectious disease.
The types of waste designated as infectious are: Microbiological waste,
pathological waste, blood products and sharps.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by educational, health
care, correctional, and other institutional facilities, excluding residential,
commercial and industrial waste.
   LAND-CLEARING DEBRIS. Solid waste that is generated solely from land-
clearing activities such as stumps, trees and the like.
   LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a disposal facility where waste is
placed in or on land and that is not a land treatment facility, a surface
impoundment, an injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage facility or
a surface storage facility.
   LITTER. Any quantity of material, whether liquid or solid, whether organic
or inorganic, which may be classified as garbage, trash, rubbish, junk or
refuse.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Any solid waste that is generated in the diagnosis, treatment
or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining thereto, or
in the production or testing of biologicals, but does not include any hazardous
waste, radioactive waste, household waste as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 261.404
(1), or those substances excluded from the definition of “solid waste” in this
chapter.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL UNIT. A discrete area of land or an
excavation that receives household waste, and is not a land application unit,
surface impoundment, injection well or waste pile, as defined under 40 C.F.R.
part 257. A landfill may be publicly or privately owned. A MUNICIPAL SOLID
WASTE LANDFILL UNIT may also be permitted to receive other types of non-
hazardous solid waste. A MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL UNIT may be a new
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL UNIT, an existing MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL
UNIT or a lateral expansion.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of solid waste without control of combustion
air to maintain adequate temperature for efficient combustion; containment of
the combustion reaction in an enclosed device to provide sufficient residence
time and mixing for complete combustion; and control of the emission of the
combustion products.
   OPEN DUMP. A solid waste disposal site that does not have a permit and/or
does not comply with the rules set forth in this chapter.
   PATHOLOGICAL WASTES. Human tissues, organs, body parts, secretions and
excretions, blood and body fluids that are removed during surgery and
autopsies, and the carcasses and body parts of any animals that were exposed to
pathogens that are potentially dangerous to humans during research, were used
in the production of biologicals or in in vivo testing of pharmaceuticals, or
that died with a known or suspected disease transmissible to humans.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, unit
of local government, state agency, federal agency or other legal entity.
   PROCESSING.  Any technique designed to change the physical, chemical or
biological character or composition of any solid waste so as to render it safe
for transport; amenable to recovery, storage or recycling; safe for disposal;
or reduced in volume or concentration.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with
sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and gases, such as kitchen
wastes, offal and carcasses.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE MATERIAL. Waste containing any material, whether solid,
liquid or gas, that emits ionizing radiation spontaneously.
   RECYCLABLE CORRUGATED CARDBOARD. Cardboard that consists of two outer layers
of linerboard with corrugating medium between the two outer layers of
linerboard, that is recyclable.
   RECYCLING.  The process by which solid waste or recovered materials are
collected, separated or processed, and reused or returned to use in the form of
raw materials or products.
   REFUSE. Solid waste, other than garbage or ashes, from residences,
commercial establishments and institutions.
   REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE. Blood and body fluids in individual containers in
volumes greater than 20 milliliters, microbiological waste and pathological
waste that has not been treated pursuant to rules promulgated by the
Department.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining material or energy resources
from discarded solid waste that no longer has any useful life in its present
form and preparing the solid waste for recycling or energy generation.
   RESPONDENT. The person against whom an administrative penalty has been
assessed.
   REUSE. A process by which resources are reused or rendered usable.
   SANITARY LANDFILL.  A facility for disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with the rules concerning sanitary landfills
adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9.
   SCRAP TIRES. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original, intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   SEPTAGE. Solid waste that is a fluid mixture of untreated and partially
treated sewage solids, liquids and sludge of human or domestic origin which is
removed from a septic tank system.
   SHARPS. Needles, syringes and scalpel blades.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, institutional or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste
having similar characteristics and effect.
   SOLID WASTE. Any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse or sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility, domestic sewage and sludges generated by the treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems, and other material
that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored or treated prior to
being discarded, or has served its original intended use and is generally
discarded, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial and agricultural
operations, and from community activities. The term does not include fecal
waste from fowls and animals other than humans; or solid or dissolved material
in domestic sewage and sludges generated by the treatment thereof in sanitary
sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems which are designed to
discharge effluents to the surface waters; irrigation return flows; and
wastewater discharges and the sludges incidental thereto and generated by the
treatment thereof which are point sources subject to permits granted under §
402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (Pub. Law No. 92-
500), and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the Environmental
Management Commission; except that any sludges that meet the criteria for
hazardous waste under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (Pub.
Law No. 94-580) as amended, shall also be a solid waste for the purpose of this
definition; or oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled order G.S. Chapter
143, Article 21A; except that any oils or other liquid hydrocarbons that meet
the criteria for hazardous waste under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (Pub. Law No. 94-580) as amended, shall also be a solid waste for
the purposes of this chapter; or any source special nuclear or byproduct
material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. §
2011); mining refuse covered by the state’s Mining Act, G.S. §§ 74-46 through
74-68 and regulated by the state’s Mining Commission. However, any specific
mining waste that meets the criteria for hazardous waste order the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (Pub. Law No. 94-580) as amended, shall
also be a solid waste for the purposes of this definition.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects or transports solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Container used for the temporary storage of solid
waste or recyclables while awaiting collection.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER SITE. Any place owned, leased or operated by the
county at which solid waste containers have been placed.
   SOLID WASTE DIRECTOR. The Solid Waste Director of the Community Development
Services Administration or his or her authorized representative.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A location at which solid waste is disposed of by
incineration, sanitary landfill or other approved method.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Purposeful, systematic control of the generation,
storage, collection, transport, separation, treatment, processing, recycling,
recovery and disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Land, personnel and equipment used in the
management of solid waste.
   SPECIAL WASTES. Solid wastes that can require special handling and
management, including white goods, whole tires, used oil, lead-acid batteries
and medical wastes.
   TRANSFER FACILITY. A permanent structure with mechanical equipment used for
the collection or compaction of solid waste prior to the transportation of
solid waste for final disposal.
   USED OIL. Any oil which has been refined from crude oil or synthetic oil
and, as a result of use, storage or handling, has beams unsuitable for its
original purpose.
   WHITE GOODS. Inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water heaters,
freezers and other similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
   YARD WASTE. Solid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance, as leaves, grass, limbs, trimmings and the like.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 1-11-2008)
§ 50.03 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All solid waste management in the county shall be in accordance and in
compliance with “Solid Waste Management Rules” as set forth by the Department,
as from time to time amended.
   (B)   All solid wastes shall be stored, collected, transported, treated and
processed, reclaimed, recycled and disposed of in a manner consistent with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Division shall be charged with the responsibility for
administration, supervision, execution and enforcement of regulations
pertaining to management of solid waste.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property may deposit,
store or permit to accumulate any solid waste on his or her property that is
not stored or disposed of in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property shall remove or
cause to be removed all solid waste from his or her property at least once each
week (seven-day period).
   (C)   Garbage shall be stored only in a container that is durable, rust
resistant nonabsorbent, watertight and easily cleaned, with a close-fitting,
fly-tight cover in place with adequate handles or bails to facilitate handling.
Solid waste receptacles, as defined by this chapter, may also be used for
storage provided they meet the requirements of this section. The number of
containers shall be adequate to store one week’s accumulation of garbage. Each
container shall be kept clean so that no odor or other nuisance condition
exists.
   (D)   Refuse shall be stored in a manner that will resist harborage to
rodents and vermin and will not create a fire hazard. Regulated refuse under
this section includes, but is not limited to, lumber, boxes, barrels, bottles,
cans, tires, paper, cardboard, rags, old furniture and other bulky waste, and
white goods.
   (E)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of a building or dwelling, other
than a licensed junk dealer, may place or leave, or cause to be placed or left,
outside the building or dwelling any bulky waste for longer than 72 hours.
   (F)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any building or dwelling may
leave outside the building or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or unattended ice box, freezer, refrigerator or other receptacle that
has an airtight door without first removing the door.
   (G)   Solid waste shall be disposed of only in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a sanitary landfill approved and permitted by the Department;
      (2)   In an incinerator that has all required local, state and federal
control permits; or
      (3)   By any other method, including recycling and resource recovery,
that has been approved by the Department.
   (H)   In addition to the methods listed in division (G) above, refuse may be
disposed of in solid waste receptacles provided by the county.
   (I)   No person may discard, dispose, leave or dump any solid waste on or
along any street or highway or on public or private property unless solid waste
is placed in a receptacle or at a location designated for the deposit of solid
waste.
   (J)   Construction wastes must be disposed of at disposal sites approved and
permitted by the Department.
   (K)   Regulated medical, hazardous and radioactive waste must be disposed of
according to written procedures approved by the Department.
   (L)   Any person collecting and transporting solid waste generated on the
person’s property for disposal at an approved disposal site shall comply with §
50.06(C) of this chapter concerning vehicles and containers.
   (M)   All sharps shall be placed in a sealed, puncture-proof container prior
to disposal.
   (N)   Open burning of solid waste is prohibited.
   (O)   It is anticipated that each person in the county will be offered
collection service by a collector of solid waste. Any person not using a
collector or choosing not to utilize the services, will be required, upon
request, for cause or as a result of complaints received by the county, to
explain and show to the Division the method and means of disposal of his or her
solid waste and where the refuse is being disposed.
   (P)   No person shall dump or deposit yard waste, white goods, used oil,
scrap tires, or lead acid batteries into any county-owned sanitary landfill.
Any person found to have done so shall remove the waste immediately upon being
requested to do so by a representative of the county. If the person depositing
any waste fails to remove it upon request of the county, the waste will be
removed by county representatives and deposited in an appropriate waste
management facility. The person who illegally deposited the waste shall be
billed by the county for its cost in removing the waste from the sanitary
landfill, for the cost of transporting the waste to an appropriate waste
management facility, and for the standard disposal fee for a load of the
requisite size to accommodate the removal.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 LICENSING SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   Every person, firm and corporation engaged in the collection of
garbage, refuse, solid wastes and recyclables in the county, except for one’s
self, one’s firm or corporation, shall first make application to and secure
from the Division a privilege license which shall be in a sum per year per
person, firm or corporation applying for a privilege license for the collection
of garbage, refuse, solid wastes and recyclables, as set by the annual budget
process.
   (B)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be for one year which
shall be for the fiscal year beginning July 1, and ending June 30, except that
licenses issued to collectors of garbage, refuse, solid wastes and recyclables
and to operators of disposal facilities for the garbage, refuse and solid
wastes, within a fiscal year shall only be for a period beginning on the date
the license is issued and ending the immediately following June 30.
   (C)   The Board shall regulate and govern the fees to be charged by licensed
collectors of garbage, refuse, solid wastes or recyclables, and of licensed
operators of disposal facilities for the garbage, refuse, solid wastes and
recyclables.
   (D)   The applicant for a solid waste collection license shall furnish the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and whether a sole
proprietorship, corporation or partnership, with disclosure of the ownership
interest;
      (2)   A list of the equipment possessed, available or to be obtained by
the applicant including motor vehicle license tag numbers;
      (3)   The physical address of business where vehicles and equipment can
be inspected;
      (4)   Number of employees the applicant expects to use in the business;
      (5)   Experience of the applicant in solid waste collection;
      (6)   Balance sheet or equivalent financial statement as of close of the
applicant’s last business year showing the net worth of the business shall be
made available by the applicant for review by the county;
      (7)   Planned routes and areas of the county the applicant expects to
serve;
      (8)   Range of fees the applicant expects to charge;
      (9)   Evidence of liability insurance coverage;
      (10)   Listing of collection services to be provided by applicant;
      (11)   Name and location of the facility in which collected waste is to
be disposed; and
      (12)   Letter of intent to include upon compensation curbside and
commercial recycling services if requested by the customer.
   (E)   Licenses for collection and transportation of solid waste in the
county may be revoked in accordance with §
50.07 by the Solid Waste Director for violations of regulations pertaining to
the management of solid waste.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   No person shall, for hire, collect or transport solid wastes without
first having obtained the appropriate license and paid the appropriate
privilege license fee to be set by the Board.
   (B)   No person shall, for hire, transport solid waste upon the public roads
by any mode of conveyance that has not been inspected and approved for use by
the Division.
   (C)   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of
garbage, refuse, or recyclables shall be covered, leakproof, durable and easily
cleaned. Open body trucks or other vehicles used in collection and
transportation of solid waste shall be covered with canvas or other substantial
material to prevent contents from falling, leaking, spilling or being blown
from the vehicle. If spillage or leakage should occur, the material shall be
recovered immediately by the licensed solid waste collector and returned to the
vehicle or container, and the area properly cleaned.
   (D)   All licensed solid waste collectors for hire shall display plainly
visible decals or lettering on the vehicle showing name and address or phone
number of the owner. The information shall be on file with the Division.
   (E)   Solid waste collectors for hire shall remove garbage or refuse from
the premises of their customers at least once a week.
   (F)   All solid waste collected shall be disposed of daily in a licensed
sanitary landfill or other approved disposal facility.
   (G)   Licensed solid waste collectors are required to notify the Division 30
days prior to any addition or discontinuance of collection routes or portions
thereof.
   (H)   No collector for hire shall dispose of solid waste in the solid waste
containers provided by the county.
   (I)   Applicants denied a license by the Division, within 15 days of denial
may request a hearing before the Solid Waste Director who shall hear the appeal
within 15 days. Within one week after the hearing, the Solid Waste Director
shall give the applicant written notice of his or her decision. If the decision
is denial, the applicant may then appeal to the Board by giving written notice
to the County Manager within ten days following receipt of the Solid Waste
Director’s decision. After a hearing on the appeal, the Board shall either
affirm the denial or direct the Solid Waste Director to issue the license.
   (J)   A license may be transferred, without the need for a new license or
revocation of the existing license being required, if the licensee notifies the
Solid Waste Director of the proposed transfer at least 30 days before the
proposed date of the transfer; a written agreement containing a specific date
of transfer of license responsibility is submitted to the Solid Waste Director;
the transferee provides proof that he or she is, or will be, the owner or
operator of the vehicles(s) previously identified by the licensee; and the
transferee provides proof that he or she is or will be able to comply with all
licensing, collection, transportation, storage and disposal requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 REVOCATION OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any license issued for collection and transportation of solid
waste may be revoked for violations of applicable regulations pertaining to the
management of solid waste.
      (2)   Whenever, upon inspection of facilities, equipment or operating
methods or practices of any person licensed and performing collection and
transportation services, the Division finds that conditions or practices exist
which are not in compliance with applicable regulations the Solid Waste
Director will give notice in writing to the person that unless the conditions
or practices are corrected or remedied within ten days, then the collector’s
license may be revoked. The notice shall include date, time and place of
reinspection by the Division.
      (3)   If, after reinspection, the Division finds conditions or practices
not corrected, the collector will be notified that his or her license has been
revoked. Upon receipt of this notice of revocation, the licensee shall
immediately stop collecting and transporting solid waste for hire.
      (4)   The Solid Waste Director may reinstate a revoked license after
revocation has been in effect for 30 days if he or she finds that the
conditions causing the violation have been corrected.
      (5)   The license holder may request in writing to the Solid Waste
Director a hearing before the Board in order that the license holder may
justify why the license should not be revoked. The requests shall be received
by the Solid Waste Director no later than ten days following notice of license
revocation.
      (6)   After hearing of the appeal, the Board shall affirm the revocation
or direct the Solid Waste Director to reinstate the license.
      (7)   Reinstatement or reissuance of a license to collect and transport
solid waste will be subject to review and rehearing by the Board.
   (B)   (1)   Any solid waste collector for hire observed dumping at a solid
waste container site shall be warned by certified mail from the Solid Waste
Director that unless the practice is stopped, the collector’s license will be
revoked.
      (2)   If the solid waste collector is again observed dumping at a solid
waste container site, his or her license shall be immediately revoked.
      (3)   After receipt of notice of revocation, the license holder may
request a hearing as outlined in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 SANITARY LANDFILL LICENSING.
   (A)   The written application for a license to locate and operate a
publicly-owned or privately-owned sanitary landfill in the unincorporated areas
of the county shall show in detail the site proposed for the facility, the
method of its operation, the equipment to be used and the other and further
information as the Board may require.
   (B)   Prior to the Board’s issuance of approval of a license, the person
making the application must comply with all current requirements of the
Department pertaining to sanitary landfill approvals. Further, prior to
approval and license issuance by the Board, evidence of the satisfactory
compliance shall be furnished to the Board in writing.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, before locating and operating any publicly-owned or
privately-owned sanitary landfill in the unincorporated areas of the county,
shall first obtain from the Board a privilege license which shall be renewed on
an annual basis for each disposal facility. The Board from time to time shall
adopt annual privilege license fees.
      (2)   A license to operate a sanitary landfill shall be automatically
revoked whenever conditions exist that cause the Department to close down the
facility.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 SANITARY LANDFILL MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   County-owned landfills may be used only for the disposal of solid
waste by county residents.
   (B)   In order to determine residency in the county, the landfill attendant
is authorized to ask for identification. Anyone refusing to provide the
information requested will be denied use of the solid waste facilities. Solid
waste shall be disposed of at the landfills in the manner and according to
procedures established by the County Solid Waste Director or the Director’s
representative.
   (C)   The following wastes may not be disposed of in county-owned or
operated sanitary landfills or any privately-owned or publicly-owned solid
waste landfills located in unincorporated areas of the county:
      (1)   Radioactive waste;
      (2)   Untreated regulated medical waste;
      (3)   Burning or smoldering materials or any other materials that would
create a fire hazard;
      (4)   Hazardous waste;
      (5)   White goods;
      (6)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (7)   Whole scrap tires;
      (8)   Used oil; and
      (9)   Yard waste.
   (D)   (1)   The following waste may be accepted on a conditional basis only:
         (a)   Asbestos;
         (b)   Barrels;
         (c)   Sludges; and
         (d)   Special wastes.
      (2)   Conditionally acceptable wastes may be disposed of in accordance
with Department regulations and policies promulgated by the Solid Waste
Director. Generators of conditionally acceptable waste shall obtain prior
approval from the Solid Waste Director at least three working days before
transporting conditionally approved wastes to the landfill.
   (E)   No person may loiter or rummage about the landfill or remove articles
therefrom.
   (F)   No person may deposit material at any point in the landfill except
where indicated by authorized agents of the county or by official signs.
   (G)   No person may discharge firearms, fireworks or explosives on landfill
property.
   (H)   A disposal fee shall be charged to all commercial, industrial,
institutional and governmental users of the landfill. No disposal fee will be
charged to individual household residents except for the disposal of tires,
white goods and yard waste or items requiring special handling. The Board shall
adopt a schedule of fees from time to time which shall be effective until
amended or replaced.
   (I)   The Board, at is discretion, may exempt the disposal of certain
designated materials from the fee requirements. The state’s Department of
Transportation shall not be charged a fee for disposing of roadside garbage and
litter.
   (J)   No tires, lead-acid batteries, used motor oil, white goods or yard
waste shall be disposed of at the landfill. However, tires, lead-acid
batteries, used motor oil, white goods, yard waste and other materials shall be
accepted by waste reduction and recycling programs at the landfill and a fee
shall be charged to all commercial, industrial, institutional, governmental and
residential users.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 LAND-CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS LANDFILL PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate a land-clearing and/or inert debris landfill
without first obtaining a permit from the Division. A permit fee shall be
adopted, from time to time, by the Board which shall be effective until amended
or replaced.
   (B)   Applications to locate and/or operate land-clearing debris landfills
shall contain the following information and shall be submitted to the Division:
      (1)   Zoning approval from the local governing body;
      (2)   A preliminary site plan (four copies) contains:
         (a)   Map or aerial photo providing the following information within
one-fourth mile of the site:
            1.   Entire property owned by applicant on which disposal site will
be located;
            2.   Location of all homes, buildings, public or private utilities,
roads, wells, watercourses and general topography; and
            3.   Whether all or a portion of site is in flood hazard area (FEMA
or Flood Hazard Soils) and location of the flood hazard area.
         (b)   Location of site on county road map;
         (c)   All information required in division (B)(1) of this section; and
         (d)   Any other pertinent information, requested by the Division.
      (3)   Upon approval of the preliminary site plan, a final site and
operation plan (six copies) showing:
         (a)   A plot plan of the proposed site showing the property boundary,
proposed landfilling limits, access controls, roads and streams;
         (b)   Erosion and sedimentation control plan which conforms to the
standards set forth in the County Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance;
         (c)   A description of the site that would be sufficient as a
description in an instrument of conveyance (copy of deed);
         (d)   Type of material to be disposed of at the site;
         (e)   Name, address and phone number for party responsible for
operation and maintenance of the site;
         (f)   Projected use after completion of the fill;
         (g)   All information required in the Unified Development Ordinance;
and
         (h)   Any other pertinent information, including limits of the 100-
year flood plain where applicable.
   (C)   Prior to receiving land-clearing and inert debris on any new site, the
licensee shall:
      (1)   Record the permit as required by G.S. § 130A-301.1;
      (2)   Complete site preparation according to the approved operational
plan; and
      (3)   Submit to an inspection by a representative of the Division.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 OPERATION OF LAND-CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS LANDFILL.
   Any person who maintains or operates a land-clearing and/or inert debris
landfill shall maintain and operate the site in conformance with the following
practices unless otherwise directed by the Division.
   (A)   Approved operational plans shall be followed as specified.
   (B)   Sedimentation and erosion control measures shall be constructed
according to the operational plan and maintained as necessary.
   (C)   Access to the site shall be barricaded or manned when not in use by
the operator.
   (D)   Dust control measures shall be implemented where necessary.
   (E)   Surface water shall be diverted from the operational area.
   (F)   Debris shall not be disposed of in water.
   (G)   Open burning of land-clearing and inert debris is prohibited.
   (H)   Equipment shall be provided to control accidental fires or
arrangements shall be made with the local fire protection agency to immediately
provide firefighting service when needed.
   (I)   No hazardous or liquid wastes shall be accepted or disposed.
   (J)   Prior to termination of operation and before earth moving equipment is
removed from the site, the Division shall be notified in order that a site
inspection may be made.
   (K)   Within one month after final termination of disposal operations at the
site or a major part thereof or upon revocation of a permit, the area shall be
covered with at least two feet of suitable compacted earth adequately sloped to
allow surface water runoff in a controlled manner without on-site erosion and
off-site siltation.
   (L)   The finished surface of the filled areas shall be stabilized according
to the approved operational plan immediately after completion or as soon as
practical, but not later than 45 calendar days.
   (M)   Once a land-clearing and inert debris landfill site has been closed,
future necessary maintenance shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 REVOCATION OF LAND-CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS LANDFILL PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued by the Division for operation of a land-clearing
and/or inert debris landfill in the county may be revoked and a fine levied for
violation of the regulations pertaining to operation and management of land-
clearing and inert debris landfills.
   (B)   Whenever, upon inspection of land-clearing and inert debris disposal
facilities, or associated operating methods, or practices, the Division finds
that conditions exist which violate any part of this chapter, the Solid Waste
Director shall give notice in writing by certified mail to the person
responsible for operation of the facility that unless the conditions or
practices are corrected or remedied within 20 days, then the permit for
operation of the facility will be revoked. The notice shall set forth the
measures necessary to bring the site back into compliance with the chapter.
   (C)   If after reinspection, the Division finds that the condition or
practices have not been corrected, the operator will be notified that his or
her license has been revoked. Upon receipt of this notice of revocation, the
operator of the facility shall terminate operations immediately.
   (D)   The operator may request in writing to the Solid Waste Director a
hearing before the Board in order that the operator may justify why the permit
should not be revoked. The requests shall be received by the Solid Waste
Director no later than ten days following notice of permit revocation. The
hearing shall be scheduled for the next regular meeting of the Board.
   (E)   After hearing of the appeal, the Board shall affirm the revocation or
direct the Solid Waste Director to reinstate the permit.
   (F)   Reinstatement or reissuance of a permit to operate a land-clearing
debris landfill will be subject to review and rehearing by the Board.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.13 OPEN DUMPS.
   A person operating or having operated an open dump for disposal of solid
waste or a person who owns land on which an open dump is or has been operating
shall immediately close the site in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Implement effective vector control, including baiting for at least two
weeks after closing, to prevent vector migration to adjacent properties;
   (B)   If the site is deemed suitable by the Division, compact and cover
existing solid waste in place with two feet or more of suitable compacted
earth; a condition of closing the site by compacting and covering the waste in
place shall be recordation of the waste disposal location by the property owner
with the County Register of Deeds. Copies of the recordation procedure may be
obtained from and inspected at the Division;
   (C)   If the site is deemed unsuitable by the Division, remove and place
solid waste in an approved disposal site or facility;
   (D)   Implement erosion control measures by grading and seeding; and
   (E)   Prevent unauthorized entry to the site by means of gates, chains,
berms, fences and other security measures approved by the Division and post
signs indicating closure for a period designated by the Division not to exceed
one year.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 LICENSING OF HAZARDOUS AND LOW LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE FACILITIES.
   (A)   In accordance with state statute, any person must obtain an annual
privilege license from the county in order to site and operate a hazardous or
low level radioactive waste site within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   The rate or rates of a tax levied under authority of this section
shall be established in accordance with the provisions of state statutes.
   (C)   Any person or firm taxed pursuant to this section may appeal the tax
rate to the Governor’s Waste Management Board, but shall pay the tax when due,
subject to a refund when the appeal is resolved by the governor’s Waste Board
or in the courts.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15 SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS SITES.
   (A)   Solid waste containers are maintained at numerous sites throughout the
county for the convenience of county residents. Solid wastes may be deposited
in the solid waste containers only in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   All solid wastes shall be deposited inside the solid waste container.
No solid waste may be left at the solid waste disposal site outside the
container.
   (C)   Commercial, industrial and institutional solid wastes may be deposited
in solid waste containers only upon the written authorization of the Solid
Waste Director.
   (D)   The following wastes may not be deposited in solid waste containers:
      (1)   Hazardous wastes;
      (2)   Liquid wastes;
      (3)   Regulated medical wastes;
      (4)   Radioactive wastes;
      (5)   Land-clearing debris;
      (6)   Dead animals;
      (7)   Concrete;
      (8)   Herbicides;
      (9)   Pesticides;
      (10)   Burning or smoldering materials, or any other materials that would
create a fire hazard;
      (11)   Yard waste;
      (12)   Scrap tires;
      (13)   White goods;
      (14)   Out-of-county waste;
      (15)   Sharps not properly contained;
      (16)   Sludges;
      (17)   Used oil;
      (18)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (19)   Asbestos; or
      (20)   Any other material designated by the Division.
   (E)   No person shall loiter and/or congregate on any container site
property and no vehicle shall be left unattended on the property.
   (F)   Solid waste containers shall not be used by licensed solid waste
collectors as a means of disposal for solid waste collected from commercial,
institutional, industrial or residential customers.
   (G)   No person shall remove any contents from solid waste containers.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 RESIDENTIAL BACKYARD COMPOSTING.
   (A)   Generally. Backyard composting is considered a means of waste
reduction in the residential community. Every person engaged in backyard
composting in unincorporated areas of the county shall comply with all rules
and regulations concerning proper composting procedures.
   (B)   Proper composting procedures.
      (1)   Waste materials being covered must be generated on the property on
which the composting is to take place.
      (2)   Composting activity shall not occur within 25 feet of any structure
or used dwelling which is located on adjacent property.
      (3)   Composting activity shall not create any conditions which are
conducive to the existence and breeding of rodents and insects or otherwise
creates a condition which is hazardous to the health of the community.
      (4)   Composting activity shall not produce any odor whatsoever which is
offensive to individuals living in the vicinity that is detectable by an odor
detection and measurement device when the device is used on adjacent
properties. If composting is being done on a property on which more than one
dwelling exists, the composting shall not create any detectable odor which
offends the other inhabitants on the property.
      (5)   Composting activity shall not create any condition in which the
material being composted may be blown from the property on which the composting
is taking place.
      (6)   Materials being composted which may be attractive to animals such
as dogs, cats, skunks, opossums or raccoons shall be protected in such a manner
so as to prevent access to the composting material by the animals.
      (7)   Materials being composted shall not include human body wastes,
fecal wastes from dogs, cats and other household pets, and meat or dairy waste
products.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 RECYCLABLE CORRUGATED CARDBOARD SURCHARGE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Recyclable corrugated cardboard, that is, corrugated cardboard as the
term is commonly understood and which businesses and dealers in the area are
willing to purchase when it is delivered to them, is a solid waste for which a
surcharge will be imposed for the disposition at county’s solid waste
management facilities, effective 9-4-2000.
   (B)   Public or private haulers servicing commercial, industrial,
institutional and governmental establishments and disposing of loads which
constitutes 10% or more of recyclable corrugated cardboard by weight or volume
shall pay double the tipping fee per ton at the facility.
   (C)   The County Manager is authorized to promulgate administrative
procedures to carry out this chapter.
   (D)   If local waste paper and corrugated cardboard stock dealers refuse to
accept recyclable corrugated cardboard or, if commercial, industrial,
institutional and governmental establishments must pay local waste paper and
corrugated cardboard stock dealers to recycle recyclable corrugated cardboard,
then a review of the program will be conducted by the Board of Commissioners
and the continued viability of the section will be determined.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. O-92-24, passed - -; Ord. O-00-23, passed
- -)
§ 50.18 FLOW CONTROL.
   (A)   All solid waste generated within the designated geographic area of the
County Solid Waste Management Plan that is placed in the waste stream for
disposal shall be collected, transported and disposed of at a county resource
recovery facility or a county landfill. The removal of solid waste from within
the geographic area for disposal is prohibited. The disposal of solid waste
generated in areas outside the boundaries of the county in county-owned solid
waste management facilities is prohibited. This section shall not be construed
to prohibit the source separation of materials from solid waste prior to
collection of the solid waste for disposal.
   (B)   No person, except licensed private collectors and county or municipal
collectors, shall collect or remove any solid waste within the county for
disposal.
   (C)   The Solid Waste Division shall establish a system of classification
for classes of solid waste that shall be consistent with a system of
classification in the solid waste management plan. The classification system
shall be used as a basis for requiring that only solid waste be delivered to an
appropriate county disposal facility in accordance with the solid waste
management plan.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. O-94-1, passed 1-31-1994) Penalty see §
50.99
§ 50.19 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or deposit, or to
permit, allow, maintain or contribute to the sweeping, throwing or depositing
of any litter into, upon or along a drain, gutter, street, road, highway,
sidewalk, alley, vacant or occupied lot, walk, parking lot, embankment, or upon
any public or private premises within the county; however, it shall not be
unlawful to dispose of litter in any manner otherwise approved in this chapter.
   (B)   Any vehicle, which is collecting or transporting solid waste, shall be
covered with canvas or other substantial material to prevent contents from
falling, leaking, spilling or being blown from the vehicle.
   (C)   The following are presumptions that apply in to this section.
      (1)   (a)   Owner/operator of vehicle presumed responsible. The operator
or owner of a vehicle is presumed responsible for any litter, which has been
thrown, dropped, or in any way otherwise disposed of from his or her vehicle.
         (b)   Agricultural exemption. The operator of any vehicle transporting
any nontoxic, biodegradable agricultural product or agricultural supply is not
presumed responsible for any product or supply coming from his or her vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   Person presumed to be responsible for litter. If any litter
is identified as having belonged to, been in the possession of, or received by
any person, the person shall be presumed responsible for the litter.
         (b)   First violation exception. For a first violation, the presumed
responsible party may be relieved of responsibility upon providing clear and
convincing evidence to the County Environmental Services Director that the
subject litter was properly delivered to a municipal or private-sector waste
hauler for disposal.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or lessee of property to
allow the accumulation of any litter upon their premises; however, it shall be
prima facie evidence that the accumulation was not allowed if aforementioned
persons have complied with §
50.04.
   (E)   This section is supplemental to and does not in anyway interfere,
obstruct or override enforcement of the criminal offense of littering as set
forth in G.S. § 14-399.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Remedies. This chapter may be enforced by equitable remedies and any
unlawful condition existing or in violation of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction and order of abatement in accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
   (B)   Persons to enforce. This chapter may be enforced by the County
Environmental Services, Solid Waste Management Division and the County
Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective at 12:01 a.m., 10-1-1993, and supersedes
and nullifies the former “Ordinance Regulating the Management of Solid Waste in
Wake County, North Carolina” which was adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners on 12-21-1981.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.22 FRANCHISE FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS LANDFILLS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a construction and demolition debris
(C&D) landfill is defined as a facility for the disposal of solid waste
pursuant to G.S. § 130A-294 and 15A NCAC 13B.0542.
   (B)   Every permit holder for operation of a C&D landfill in Wake County's
unincorporated area must obtain a franchise from the Wake County Board of
Commissioners. With respect to franchises in existence on and as of the
effective date of this section, such franchises are subject to the conditions
and requirements set forth in divisions (D), (E)(2) through (E)(7), (H), and
(I) of this section. The expiration date of any franchise already in effect as
of the effective date of this section will not change as a result of this
section.
   (C)   For a new C&D landfill, the Board of County Commissioners may issue a
franchise upon presentation of the following information to the county:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and owner of the proposed
landfill site;
      (2)   The trade or other names, if any, under which the applicant does
business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate stating
such name or articles of incorporation stating such name;
      (3)   All information required under G.S. § 130A-294(b1)(2);
      (4)   Evidence that the Wake County Board of Adjustment has granted a
special use permit for the proposed C&D landfill; and
      (5)   Evidence of the owner/applicant's compliance history at waste
disposal facilities in North Carolina if the owner/applicant has experience
owning or operating such facilities within the last three years. Evidence
includes a copy of all federal, state, or local notices of violation (NOV) the
facility has received in the previous three years, and a copy of all inspection
reports received in the previous three years from any regulatory agency that
has conducted routine inspections at the facility during the previous three
years.
   (D)   For a revision to the franchise of an existing C&D landfill, the Board
of County Commissioners may issue a revised franchise upon presentation of the
following information to the county:
      (1)   A transmittal letter that highlights the requested changes by
comparing the key points of the existing franchise to the requested revision;
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant and owner of the landfill
site;
      (3)   The trade or other names, if any, under which the applicant does
business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate stating
such name or articles of incorporation stating such name;
      (4)   All information required under G.S. § 130A-294(b1)(2);
      (5)   A letter from the Wake County Planning Development and Inspections
Division stating:
         (a)   That to its knowledge there are no existing violations of the
permits, ordinances, and regulations governing the C&D landfill that the
Division enforces, including but not limited to the special use permit for the
C&D landfill; and
         (b)   Whether or not the proposed franchise change would require
action from the Wake County Board of Adjustment to modify the special use
permit.
      (6)   A letter from the Wake County Environmental Services Department
stating that to its knowledge there are no existing violations of the permits,
ordinances, and regulations governing the C&D landfill that the Department
enforces, including but not limited to well, septic, sedimentation and erosion
control, and grading permits;
      (7)   A letter from every section of the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that has issued a permit to the C&D
landfill stating that to its knowledge there are no existing violations of the
permits, statutes, and regulations governing the C&D landfill that that section
of NCDENR enforces;
      (8)   A copy of all federal, state, or local notices of violation (NOV)
the C&D landfill has received in the previous five years;
      (9)   A copy of all inspection reports from any NCDENR inspection during
the previous five years;
      (10)   A copy of the five most recent reports submitted to NCDENR
reporting the total annual tonnage received at the C&D landfill and the
geographic origin of the tonnage; and
      (11)   Evidence that the Wake County Board of Adjustment has modified or
reissued the special use permit for the C&D landfill if required in division
(D)(5) above.
   (E)   Unless alternate language is approved by the Board of County
Commissioners, all new franchises shall have the following specifications:
      (1)   Franchises automatically expire five years after the date of Board
of County Commissioner approval unless the owner/applicant:
         (a)   Submits a letter to the Environmental Services Director that
includes a copy of any and all required NCDENR permit(s) to operate the C&D
landfill under the conditions described in the new franchise; or
         (b)   Requests an extension from the Board of County Commissioners;
         Upon satisfaction of division (E)(1)(a) above, the term of the
franchise shall be 20 years from the date the NCDENR permit issued, or such
shorter period set by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   Any change to the list of specific conditions noted in the
application or offered by the owner/applicant, including but not limited to a
description of the geographic service area, a description of the volume and
characteristics of the waste stream, and the annual tonnage threshold, shall
require the owner/applicant to request a franchise revision from Board of
County Commissioner as described in division (D) above;
      (3)   Any change to the operation of the C&D landfill that is considered
a substantial amendment of the operating permit from NCDENR as defined by G.S.
§ 130A-294(b1)(1) shall require the owner/applicant to request a franchise
revision from Board of County Commissioner as described in division (D) above;
      (4)   The only materials acceptable at the C&D landfill are those
permitted under 15A NCAC 13B.0542 as of the effective date of this section. The
owner/applicant may propose, and the Board of County Commissioners may accept,
a more restrictive list of materials than those permitted under 15A NCAC
13B.0542 as of the effective date of this section;
      (5)   Any request by the owner/applicant to modify the list of acceptable
waste pursuant to 15A NCAC 13B.0542(e)(4) shall require the owner/applicant to
request a franchise revision from Board of County Commissioner as described in
division (D) above;
      (6)   The owner/applicant shall copy the Wake County Environmental
Services Department on all correspondence with NCDENR regarding operational
changes at the landfill;
      (7)   The owner/applicant shall provide to the Wake County Environmental
Services Department annually a document signed by the owner/applicant listing
the conditions of the franchise (geographic service area, annual tonnage limit,
etc.) and certifying whether or not the C&D landfill complied with those
conditions over the past year; and
      (8)   Any other specification or condition that the Board of County
Commissioners chooses to impose.
   (F)   The Board of County Commissioners shall schedule and hold a public
hearing consistent with the requirements of G.S. § 130A-294(b1)(3). In addition
to the public notice requirements of G.S. § 130A-294(b1)(3), a notice of the
hearing shall be:
      (1)   Published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation not
less than 30 calendar days prior to the date established for the hearing; and
      (2)   Posted on the property at a place(s) visible to all public roads
adjacent to the landfill site.
   (G)   All forms of public notice described in division (F) above shall be
reasonably calculated to inform the public of the location, date, time and
purpose of the hearing. The owner/applicant shall provide an affidavit to the
county not less than ten days before the date of the hearing that the required
notices have been posted. All expenses associated with public notice
requirements shall be borne entirely by the owner/applicant.
   (H)   Due to the administrative burden of processing C&D franchise requests,
the owner/applicant may only submit one request per C&D landfill facility every
18 months unless the owner/applicant can demonstrate to the Board of County
Commissioners that the additional request is substantially different than the
original request, is due to unforeseen circumstances or an emergency, or is for
the purpose of correcting a minor technical deficiency or administrative error.
   (I)   The C&D franchise may be revoked and/or suspended for violation of the
conditions and specifications of the franchise. If county staff discovers a
violation, the Solid Waste Director shall give notice in writing to the person
responsible for operation of the facility that the facility's franchise will be
revoked or suspended unless the violation is remedied. The notice shall set
forth the measures necessary to bring the site back into compliance with the
franchise ordinance and specify a deadline for the corrective actions to be
completed. If after the deadline the violation has not been remedied, the
operator will be notified that the franchise has been revoked or suspended.
Upon receipt of this notice of revocation or suspension, the operator of the
facility shall terminate operations immediately. The operator may request in
writing to the Solid Waste Director a hearing before the Board of County
Commissioners in order that the operator may justify why the franchise should
not be revoked or suspended. The request shall be received by the Solid Waste
Director no later than ten days following notice of franchise revocation or
suspension. The hearing shall be scheduled for the next regular meeting of the
Board of County Commissioners. After hearing of the appeal, the Board shall
affirm the revocation or suspension, or direct the Solid Waste Director to
reinstate the franchise.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1999; Ord. OA-01-12, passed 3-19-2012)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Criminal penalty. Any person violating this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day’s violation shall be treated as a
separate offense.
      (2)   Civil penalty. Any person who is found in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed $500 as provided in G.S. §
153A-123. Each day’s violation shall be treated as a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties and remedies available hereunder,
any person depositing prohibited waste into a sanitary landfill of the county
shall be subject to a $100 civil penalty for the initial deposit and a $50 per
day civil penalty for each day the waste remains in the sanitary landfill after
its removal has been ordered.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who is found in violation of §
50.19 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $250 for the first violation, $500
for the second violation and $1,000 for the third violation as provided in G.S.
§ 153A-123. Each article of litter shall be treated as a separate offense. If
not paid within 30 days, the penalty will be recovered through a civil action,
the costs of which are to be added to the penalty.
      (2)   Any civil penalties collected are remedial in nature and are to be
used as partial reimbursement for the County Environmental Services Littering
Program.
(Ord. O-93-14, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
TITLE VII: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   ROAD NAMES
      
72.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Emergency Management Agency
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Purposes
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Violations of regulations
   
70.05   Organization and appointments
   
70.06   Emergency powers and duties
   
70.07   Director; day-to-day duties and responsibilities
   
70.08   Emergency management plans
   
70.09   Municipal or private liability
   
70.10   Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations suspended
   
70.11   National Incident Management System (NIMS); recognition and compliance
   
70.12   Severability
State of Emergency
   
70.25   Territorial applicability
   
70.26   “State of emergency” defined; restrictions authorized
   
70.27   State of emergency proclaimed, generally
   
70.28   Proclamation, amendments to
   
70.29   Evacuation
   
70.30   Curfew
   
70.31   Restrictions
   
70.32   Prohibitions and restrictions, removal of
   
70.33   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
70.34   Chairperson, absentee or disability
   
70.35   Severability
Hazardous Materials
   
70.50   Data storage box
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Chapter 72
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management; authority, see G.S. Chapter 166A-7
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Emergency Management Ordinance” for the county, including its municipalities.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-16) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 70.02 PURPOSES.
   (A)   It is the intent and purposes of this chapter to establish an Office
of Emergency Management to ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all
resources of the county and its municipalities in the event of disaster, as
defined herein.
   (B)   The Office of Emergency Management shall be the coordinating agency
for all activity in connection with emergency management within the county
including the municipalities within the geographical limits of the county; it
will be the agency through which the Board of Commissioners and municipal
councils will exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested
in them during states of disaster or local emergency.
   (C)   This chapter does not relieve any county department or agency of the
responsibilities or authority given to it by state law or by local chapter, nor
will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency organized for relief
in disaster situations.
   (D)   This chapter shall not abridge or modify the authority of the governor
or his or her delegates to implement emergency measures during declared states
of disaster.
   (E)   The Office of Emergency Management shall be the central coordinating
agency for activities and programs relating to emergency and disaster
prevention, mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery, homeland security,
among agencies and officials of the county and with similar agencies and
officials of other counties, the state and federal agencies; and with other
private and quasi-official organizations.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-17) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Direct or indirect, actual or threatened, assault against the
county, its government or its environs, or against the state or nation, by the
forces of a hostile nation or the agents thereof, including but not limited to
assault by bombing, conventional, radiological or nuclear, chemical, biological
or cyber (technological) means, sabotage or other impending or actual calamity.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the Office of Emergency Management and, appointed
as prescribed in this chapter.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural, biological, or
human-made accidental, military or paramilitary cause.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. Broadly defined, the governmental function that
coordinates and integrates all activities to build, sustain and improve the
capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from or
mitigate against threatened or actual natural disasters, acts of terrorism or
other man-made disasters. This shall include plans and preparations for
minimizing the adverse effect of any kind of disaster, as defined herein, and
shall include prevention, mitigation, warning, response, movement, shelter,
emergency assistance and recovery. It shall not, however, include any activity
that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the United States,
health or law enforcement agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of all
county and municipal departments, boards, councils, institutions, acting in
furtherance of the purposes of this chapter and, in addition, it shall include
all volunteer personnel, equipment and facilities contributed by or obtained
from volunteer persons or agencies while acting in the capacity of emergency
management volunteers.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person or agency contributing a service,
equipment or facilities to the emergency management agency without remuneration
and assigned to participate in the emergency management activity.
   HOMELAND SECURITY. The comprehensive and coordinated efforts, strategies,
and actions by government agencies in collaboration with relevant partners
utilized to detect, identify, and deter threats and malefactor actions; protect
people, key resources, and critical infrastructure; respond to and recover from
catastrophic incidents and events while mitigating impacts of cascading risks.
Nothing herein shall be construed to include law enforcement, investigation or
functions of law enforcement.
   INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS). The combination of facilities, equipment,
personnel, procedures, and communications operating within a common
organizational structure, designed to aid in domestic incident management
activities.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS. May include but are not limited to the furnishing or
exchange of such supplies, equipment, facilities, personnel and services as may
be needed; the reimbursement of costs and expenses for equipment, supplies,
personnel and similar items; and on such terms and conditions as deemed
necessary.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS). A system prescribed by the
Department of Homeland Security under the direction of Presidential Directive
#5 that strengthens response capabilities through a balance between flexibility
and standardization, and use of common doctrine, terminology, concepts,
principles and processes. The purpose of NIMS is to provide a consistent
nationwide approach for federal, state and local governments to work
effectively and efficiently together to prepare for, prevent, respond to, and
recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity.
   REGULATIONS. Plans, programs and other emergency procedures deemed essential
to emergency management.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-18) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.04 VIOLATIONS OF REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or of the regulations or plans promulgated pursuant to the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the
emergency management forces, as herein defined, in the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter or any regulations or plan issued thereunder.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-19) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An Office of Emergency Management within the executive department
of county government under the direction of the Board of Commissioners, through
the County Manager, as authorized by G.S. § 166A-19.15. The Office shall be led
by its Director. The assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary by
the Board of Commissioners for the proper functioning of the agency shall be
appointed;
      (2)   The employees and resources of all county and municipal
departments, boards, institutions and councils. The same shall participate in
the emergency management activities. Duties assigned to county or municipal
departments shall be the same as or similar to the normal duties of the
Department, where possible; and
      (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering services to and accepted
by the county or municipality.
   (B)   A Director of the Office of Emergency Management shall be appointed.
The Director will be a person well versed and trained in planning operations
involving the activities of various agencies which operate to protect the
public health, safety and welfare in the event of disaster, as defined in this
chapter.
   (C)   The Director shall designate and appoint a Deputy Director as the
Coordinator of the Office of Emergency Management to assume the emergency
duties of the Director in the event of his or her absence or disability.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-20) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.06 EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director shall promulgate a local emergency plan which shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners and which shall be activated whenever a
local state of emergency is declared by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to
local ordinance and G.S. Chapter 166A, or when the Governor of the state
declares a state of disaster in all or any part of the county.
   (B)   During states of declared disaster or local emergency, the Board of
Commissioners may delegate to the Director the power to implement the
additional plans as are necessary for the efficient administration of state or
federal disaster plans and for the preservation of the public safety, health
and welfare.
   (C)   During states of declared disaster or local emergency, the Director is
authorized to utilize all available county resources as reasonably necessary to
cope with an emergency, including the transfer and direction of personnel or
functions of county agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or
facilitating emergency services to the full extent allowed by G.S. § 166A-19.15
or subject to the direction and guidance of the Board of Commissioners.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-21) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.07 DIRECTOR; DAY-TO-DAY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Director shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners,
through the County Manager, in regard to all phases of the emergency management
activities. The Director shall be responsible for the planning, coordination
and operation of emergency management and homeland security activities in the
county. The Director shall maintain communication with state and federal
authorities and authorities of nearby political subdivisions to ensure the most
effective operation of the emergency management plans.
      (2)   No person shall be employed or associated in any capacity in any
emergency management agency established under this chapter if the person:
         (a)   Advocates or has advocated a change by force or violence in the
constitutional form of the government of the United States;
         (b)   Advocates or has advocated the overthrow of any government in
the United States by force or violence;
         (c)   Has been convicted of any subversive act against the United
States; or
         (d)   Is under indictment or information charging any subversive act
against the United States.
   (B)   The Director’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county and its municipalities for
emergency management purposes;
      (2)   Developing and coordinating of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower and resources of the county for the purpose of
minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and protecting or
restoring governmental services and public utilities necessary for the public
health, safety and welfare;
      (3)   Negotiating and entering into agreements with owners or persons in
control of real property for the use of buildings and properties for emergency
management purposes, pursuant to the agreements designating suitable buildings;
      (4)   Educating the populace through public information programs about
procedures required for the protection of its persons and property in case of
disaster, as defined herein;
      (5)   Conducting public exercises to ensure efficient operation of the
emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management plans, procedures and operations;
      (6)   Coordinating the activity of other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activities and implementing state disaster
procedures; and
      (7)   Negotiating and entering into agreements with other political
subdivisions for mutual aid assistance providing such agreements are consistent
with the state emergency management program and plans.
      (8)   Coordinating and maintaining a county wide public alert and warning
system.
      (9)   Coordinating a program to maintain situational awareness of complex
incidents and events to ensure a coordinated response per local plans.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-22) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.08 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the Board of Commissioners and the municipal
councils. In the preparation of these plans, the services, equipment,
facilities and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be
utilized to the fullest extent. When comprehensive emergency management plans
are approved, each municipal department or agency shall perform those functions
assigned to it by these plans and shall maintain a current state of readiness
at all times. The emergency operation plan and disaster operation plan shall
have the full effect of local law whenever a disaster, as defined in this
chapter, has been proclaimed.
   (B)   The Director shall describe in emergency plans those positions within
the disaster organization, in addition to his or her own, for which lines of
succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person shall
designate and file with the Director a current list of three persons to be
successors to his or her position. The list shall be in order of succession and
shall designate persons most capable of carrying out all duties and functions
assigned to the position.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head designated in the plan shall be
responsible for carrying out all designated duties and functions. Duties will
include organization and training of assigned employees and volunteers. Each
chief shall formulate an operating procedure to implement the plan for his or
her service.
   (D)   Amendments to the plan shall be submitted to the Director. The
Director may submit proposed amendments to the Board of Commissioners and the
municipal councils, with his or her recommendation. The amendments shall take
effect 30 days from the date of approval by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   When a skill required for a disaster relief function is not available
within local government, the Director shall be authorized to seek assistance
beyond local government resources. Duties of a supervisory nature shall also
include an implicit authority to carry out the ancillary duties as are
necessary and proper before and after the occurrence of a disaster for the
fulfillment of functions authorized by this chapter. Services from persons
other than government employees may be accepted by local government on a
volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be enrolled as emergency management
volunteers.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-23) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.09 MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   All functions hereunder and all other actions related to
emergency management by the county and its municipalities are governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety.
      (2)   Neither the county nor its municipalities, nor agents and
representatives of same, nor any individual, receiver, firm, partnership,
corporation, association, or trustee, nor any of the agents thereof, in good
faith complying with or attempting to comply with this chapter or rule, or
regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be
liable for the death of or injury to persons, or for damage to property as a
result of the activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily, and without compensation, grants to the county and its
municipalities the right to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part or
parts of the real estate for the purpose of emergencies during an actual,
impending or practice disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the
death of or injury to any persons on or about the real estate under the
license, privilege or permission, or for loss of or damage to the property of
the persons.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-24) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.10 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   Whenever a declared state of emergency or disaster exists, the provisions of
this chapter shall supersede all local rules and chapters inconsistent
herewith.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-26) (Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 70.11 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS); RECOGNITION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The county shall recognize the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) and adopt the principles and policies of the NIMS that will insure the
complete and efficient utilization of all of the county’s resources to combat
disasters.
   (B)   NIMS principles and policies are to be adhered to by all emergency
management forces and across all functional disciplines within the county to
provide a comprehensive approach to incident management.
   (C)   Emergency Management, with guidance from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency – National Integration Center (NIC), will be the coordinating
agency for all activity in connection with NIMS.
(Res. passed - -2006; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 70.12 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provisions of this subchapter be declared invalid for any reason,
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration of invalidity shall
not affect the validity of the provisions or of this subchapter as a whole.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-26) (Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 70.25 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any
municipality, or within any area of the county over which a municipality has
jurisdiction to enact general police-power ordinances, unless the municipality
by resolution consents to its application, in which event it shall apply to the
areas as fully and to the same extent as elsewhere in the county.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-36) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.26 “STATE OF EMERGENCY” DEFINED; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
county or any part thereof, or threatening damage to or destruction of
property, the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized
and empowered under G.S. § 166A-19.22, to issue a public proclamation declaring
to all persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the county, to
place in effect any or all of the restrictions authorized in this chapter.
   (C)   The Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to limit, by the
proclamation, the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the county and to specific
hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any part of the
restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of their
respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public
employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and
other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal;
on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation companies and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and the other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within the county.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-38) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.27 STATE OF EMERGENCY PROCLAIMED, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, by proclamation, may
impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
70.30 and
70.31 in the manner described in those sections. The Chairperson may impose as
many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she finds
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The Chairperson
shall recite the findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the county courthouse. The
Chairperson shall retain a text of the proclamation and furnish, upon request,
certified copies of it for use as evidence.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-39) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.28 PROCLAMATION, AMENDMENTS TO.
   The Chairperson may amend or extend the proclamation from time to time,
making the modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in
the original proclamation. The proclamation shall continue until terminated or
amended.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-40) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.29 EVACUATION.
   A proclamation may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of the county by prescribed routes, modes of transportation and
destination in connection with evacuation and may control ingress and egress of
a disaster area and the occupancy of premises therein.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-41) (Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 70.30 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and,
during certain periods, the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemption the Chairperson finds necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the
exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Chairperson by proclamation
removes the curfew.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-42) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.31 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Intoxicating liquor.
      (1)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
intoxicating liquor within the area of the county described in the
proclamation.
      (2)   The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of intoxicating
liquor by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by anyone
else within the geographic area described.
   (B)   Dangerous weapons and substances.
      (1)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance, such prohibitions or restrictions not to conflict with state law
regarding lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition. It is the intent of this
section to comply with G.S. § 14-409.40. The Chairperson may exempt, from some
or all of the restrictions, classes of people whose possession, transfer or
transportation of certain dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the
preservation of the public health, safety or welfare. The proclamation shall
state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
      (2)   DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES shall have the same meaning as it
does under G.S. § 14-288.1 and any amendments thereof and the term FIREARM
shall have the same meaning as it does under G.S. § 14-409.39(2) and any
amendments thereof.
      (3)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the
jurisdiction of the county or the part thereof as designated in the
proclamation.
      (4)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided by
state statute.
   (C)   Access to areas.
      (1)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to
obtain access to any area, designated in the manner described in this division,
in violation of any order, clearly-posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
      (2)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated
by the Sheriff and his or her subordinates when directed in the proclamation to
do so by the Chairperson. When acting under this authority, the Sheriff and his
or her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway or
location within the county if that restriction or denial of access or use is
reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or
to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
   (D)   Other restrictions. The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
      (1)   Movements of people in public places;
      (2)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places
to or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
      (3)   Other activities or conditions, the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-43) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.32 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS, REMOVAL OF.
   The Chairperson shall, by proclamation, remove the prohibitions and
restrictions as the emergency no longer requires them or when directed to do so
by the Board of Commissioners.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-44) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.33 SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Chairperson, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this chapter in separate proclamations and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-45) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.34 CHAIRPERSON, ABSENTEE OR DISABILITY.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, or the other person as may be
designated by the Board of Commissioners, shall have and exercise all of the
powers herein given the Chairperson.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-46) (Ord. passed 1-5-1981; Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed
2-5-2024)
§ 70.35 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this subchapter is
for any reason held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
subchapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-49) (Ord. passed 10-1-1990; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 70.50 DATA STORAGE BOX.
   (A)   Generally. Effective 1-1-1992, as amended effective August 16, 2010,
all commercial enterprises or industries in the county which use, store or
manufacture on-site hazardous materials that must be reported with regulated
materials under Title III of the Federal Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act (SARA), 42 USC 11001 et seq., and the Clean Air Act
Amendment 112 (r), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, must have an
approved on-site hazardous materials data storage box at each facility where
hazardous materials may be found. This requirement shall ensure consistency at
all facilities storing hazardous materials so that responders can quickly
locate, access, and utilize information located in the data storage box.
   (B)   Contents, types and location.
      (1)   This data storage box may contain keys providing access to all
secured areas of the facility and may also serve as the required facility key
box required by state and local fire codes. The data storage box shall contain
current, specific information needed to assist fire departments and hazardous
materials teams responding to emergencies at the facility. This information
includes but is not limited to, facility maps or plans showing the type and
location of hazardous materials, Tier II forms, lists of chemicals with
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) numbers that are required to be reported on
Tier II forms, 24-hour emergency telephone numbers for essential facility
employees and other persons to be contacted in case of emergencies.
      (2)   The data storage box shall contain the Site Specific Hazardous
Chemical Plan/Hazardous Materials Management Plan, specifically in the Wake
County format. This form shall be updated annually, or more often as necessary,
to ensure accuracy.
      (3)   The data storage box itself shall be of the type designated and
approved by the Wake County Local Emergency Planning Committee and shall be
located at the primary vehicular entrance, outside any security fence that may
be surrounding the facility and visible and accessible to emergency responders.
If the facility staffs a security control checkpoint, the data storage box may
be located at the security checkpoint, but located outside any surrounding
security fence and shall be visible and accessible to all emergency responders.
The data storage box may be mounted to a post or other stand alone structure,
so long as the above criteria are met. The data storage box may be mounted to a
structure that is located outside of the secured perimeter, but shall not be
mounted to the exterior of the facility or inside the facility housing the
hazardous materials.
      (4)   Facilities may apply for site specific variance for the location of
the Hazardous Materials Data Storage Box to Wake County Emergency Management.
It is at the discretion of Wake County Emergency Management whether to approve
or deny the request. If approved, Wake County Emergency Management will notify
First Responders as to its location.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. passed 3-4-1991; Am. Ord. passed 8-16-2010; Ord.
passed 2-5-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this Chapter 70 for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of Chapter 70 shall be a misdemeanor as provided
under G.S. §§ 153A-123 and 14-4. Each day’s continuing violation shall
constitute a separate offense as provided by G.S. § 153A-123(g).
      (2)   The county may also secure injunctive and other appropriate
equitable remedies to ensure compliance with this chapter, as provided by G.S.
§ 153A-123.
      (3)   Enforcement actions may be initiated by the County Fire Marshal,
the County Emergency Management Director or Chief of the Fire Department
serving the facility.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. passed 3-4-1991; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Continuity of local government in emergency, see G.S. Chapter 162B
   Emergency management, see G.S. Chapter 166A
   Property taxes for civil preparedness programs, see G.S. § 153A-149(c)(9)
   Riots and civil disorders, see G.S. §§ 14-288.1 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: ROAD NAMES
Section
   
71.01   Purpose and intent
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Road names
   
71.04   Administration and application
   
71.05   Display of road address numbers
   
71.06   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to provide a uniform system of
road addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the county in order
to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response
services and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for
public service agencies and the general public.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-61) (Ord. passed 6-30-1988; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADDRESS PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR. The official of the county charged with
the administration of this subchapter, including his or her authorized agent or
delegate.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or equipment. When
separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each portion
of the building may be deemed a separate building. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the term BUILDING may also include other human-made structures,
including but not limited to manufactured, mobile and modular homes.
      DRIVEWAYS. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot
abutting a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, giving
access from that public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or
private right-of-way, and leading to a building, use or structure on that lot.
A DRIVEWAY may not serve more than a single lot unless it runs along a lot line
shared by two lots and serves no more than two lots.
      OWNER.  A person or legal entity having a beneficial, de facto,
financial, legal, or record interest in either a building or in an address on
which a building is located. OWNER includes but is not necessarily limited to
those persons or entities who are deemed by the address program administrator
to be a beneficial, de facto, equitable, legal, part or record owner of a
building or address subject to this chapter.
      ROAD. A public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or
egress. The roads may be of various types including frontage roads, rear access
roads, roads with cul-de-sacs and dead-end roads. This definition includes
secondary roads, but does not include driveways.
      ROAD ADDRESS. The combination of numbers and road name assigned by the
county which uniquely identifies a particular building or lot.
   (B)   Except as specifically set forth in this subchapter, the definitions
in the county subdivision regulations shall govern the meaning of words and
phrases in this subchapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-62) (Ord. passed 6-30-1988; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 71.03 ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   The road names on file with the community development services agency
are hereby declared the official names of these roads, unless changed by action
of the County Board of Commissioners. The community development services agency
is hereby authorized to determine the need for road name changes and to
recommend the changes to the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All roads in the county shall be identified by a sign showing the
official name and state road number. These road signs shall be placed at all
intersections and shall identify both intersecting streets.
   (C)   Road name signs shall be uniform throughout the county in accordance
with the Governor’s Highway Safety Commission Program.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-63) (Ord. passed 6-30-88; Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 71.04 ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The address program administrator will be responsible for the
interpretation and administration of this subchapter, including:
      (1)   Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings;
      (2)   Maintaining address records of each property and building;
      (3)   Recommending change of existing addresses when necessary to
facilitate sequential house numbers along a road;
      (4)   Designating individual unit addresses within the multiple housing
units in conformity with this subchapter; and
      (5)   Assisting the public in complying with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   This section shall apply in all areas of the county not within a
municipality; except that it shall not apply in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of any municipality which has adopted similar provisions in its
zoning, subdivision or building inspection codes.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-64) (Ord. passed 6-30-1988); Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF ROAD ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Road address numbers must be clearly displayed so that the location
can be identified easily from the road.
      (1)   The official address number must be displayed on the front of a
building or at the entrance to a building which is most clearly visible from
the street or road during both day and night.
      (2)   If a building is more than 75 feet from any road, the address
number shall be displayed at the end of the driveway or easement nearest the
road which provides access to the building.
      (3)   Numerals indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least three inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the road.
      (4)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings
shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road.
      (5)   Numerals must be of contrasting color to the background.
      (6)    Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout
the park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The address
number of each lot must be clearly displayed on the lot so as to be legible
from the road rather than mounted on the mobile home unit.
   (B)   The address program administrator will have the right to authorize and
approve alternate methods of displaying house numbers which meet the intent of
this subchapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot reasonably be
met.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-65) (Ord. passed 6-30-1988; Ord. passed 2-5-2024) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued until an official house number has
been assigned for a lot. The record plat of any subdivision must show the
address for each lot created or recorded.
   (B)   No certificate of completion under §
150.051 of this code will be issued until road address numbers are properly
displayed.
   (C)   An owner of a building or of an address on which a building is
located, and an occupant of a building shall comply fully with this chapter.
The county may issue a written notice to any owner or occupant when this
chapter has not been fully met and specify in the notice means of compliance
within a time frame not to exceed 30 days. Notice under this chapter is
sufficient and proper if reasonably calculated to give actual or constructive
notice. Means of notice deemed sufficient and proper include but are not
limited to first class mail sent to the last known address of an owner or
occupant as ascertained from the county’s tax listings, posting on the front
door of the affected building, or hand delivery to an occupant of legal age
found at the affected building. The County Attorney may enforce this chapter by
any one or more of the remedies authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
(1984 Code, § 2-5-66) (Ord. passed 6-30-1988; Ord. passed 2-5-2024) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 72: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION *
Section
   
72.01   Title
   
72.02   Intent
   
72.03   Applicability of chapter
   
72.04   Authority of Fire Marshal to enforce
   
72.05   Adoption of North Carolina Fire Prevention Code
   
72.06   Fire inspection/violation fees
Statutory reference:
   Related statutes, see G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 11 Fire Protection
 
Notes
  *Editor’s note:
*    Pursuant to G.S. § 143-138(e), North Carolina State Building Code shall
  apply throughout the state, from the time of its adoption. Approved rules
  shall become effective in accordance with G.S. § 150B-21.3.
§ 72.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Fire Prevention and Fire Protection
Chapter of Wake County, North Carolina, and may be cited as that and referred
to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 72.02 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to prescribe regulations consistent
with nationally recognized good practice for the safeguarding of life and
property within the jurisdiction of the county from the hazards of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials, devices and from the use or occupancy of buildings and premises.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to hold the county responsible for
any damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection
authorized therein or failure to inspect or re-inspect or the permits issued or
denied as therein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any
equipment authorized therein.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 72.03 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter applies to all unincorporated areas of the county. In addition,
this chapter, in its entirety, may apply within the corporate limits of any
municipality located within the county, if a municipality, by resolution,
requests that this chapter be applicable within the municipality and executes a
memorandum of understanding with the county as to the applicability and the
cost of enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 72.04 AUTHORITY OF FIRE MARSHAL TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the County Fire Marshal and his/her
authorized representatives (collectively, the “Fire Marshal”) using civil
remedies authorized under G.S. §§ 143-139, 153A-123, and 160A-175, who shall be
certified by the North Carolina Code Officials Qualifications Board and any
other board, association or entity required by law. Appeals from the assessment
or imposition of such civil remedies shall be as provided in G.S. § 160D-1127.
   (B)   The County Fire Marshal shall have all of the duties set forth in G.S.
§ 153A-234.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 72.05 ADOPTION OF NORTH CAROLINA FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   For the purpose of regulating and governing the safeguarding of life
and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling
and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the
county and providing for issuance of permits for hazardous uses or operations,
that certain fire prevention code recommended by the North Carolina Building
Code Council, being particularly the International Fire Code with North
Carolina Amendments, and the whole thereof, as hereinafter modified or amended,
of which code a copy has been and now is filed in the office of the Clerk to
the Board of County Commissioners and such copy is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the county. Any amendments thereto shall be
effective at such time as the amendments are declared in effect by the North
Carolina State Building Code Council without further amendment to this chapter.
   (B)   A copy of the fire prevention and protection ordinance, and all
technical codes and standards adopted by reference shall be available for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk to the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
§ 72.06 FIRE INSPECTION/VIOLATION FEES.
   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-123, fees have been approved as part of the
county’s schedule of fees to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   PARADES AND PICKETING
      
94.   BEGGING, SOLICITATION, AND VEHICULAR INTERFERENCE
CHAPTER 90: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Response to alarm; determination of validity
   
90.03   Review of false alarm determinations
   
90.04   Discontinuance of response
   
90.05   Automatic dial protection devices prohibited
   
90.06   Prohibited acts
   
90.07   Enforcement of provisions
   
90.08   Effective date
   
90.09   Severability
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SIGNAL. A detectable signal, either audible or visual, generated by an
alarm system, to which law enforcement officers are expected to respond.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any single device or assembly of equipment designed to signal
the occurrence of an illegal entry, theft, robbery or any activity requiring
the immediate attention and to which the Office of Sheriff is expected to
respond, but does not include alarms installed on motor vehicles or fire
alarms.
   ALARM USER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity or any other entity owning or leasing an
alarm system, or on whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the
protection of the premises.
   AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICE. An automatic dialing device or an
automatic telephone dialing alarm system including any system which, upon being
activated, automatically initiates to any law enforcement agency or public
safety communications center a recorded message or code signal indicating a
need for law enforcement response.
   COUNTY. The County of Wake or its designee.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or
electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the
alarm user, his or her employees or agents, and signals activated to summon law
enforcement personnel unless law enforcement response was canceled by the alarm
user or his or her employee or his or her agent before law enforcement
personnel arrived at the alarm location. FALSE ALARM shall not include an alarm
which can reasonably be determined to have been caused or activated by
unusually violent conditions of nature nor does it include other extraordinary
circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm user. An alarm is
false within the meaning of this chapter when, upon inspection by law
enforcement personnel of the Sheriff, evidence indicates that no unauthorized
entry, robbery or other such crime was committed or attempted in or on the
premises which would have activated a properly functioning alarm system.
   SHERIFF. The Sheriff of Wake County, the Office of Sheriff of Wake County,
or his or her designee.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.02 RESPONSE TO ALARM; DETERMINATION OF VALIDITY.
   (A)   Law enforcement response. Whenever an alarm is activated in the
unincorporated area of the county and the Sheriff does respond to the alarm, a
law enforcement officer on the scene of the activated alarm system shall
inspect the area and shall determine whether the law enforcement response was
in fact necessary as indicated by the alarm system or whether the alarm was a
false alarm within the meaning of this chapter.
   (B)   Notification. If the law enforcement officer at the scene of an
activated alarm system determines the alarm to be false within the meaning of
this chapter, the officer shall make a report of the false alarm to the person
designated by the Sheriff to receive the reports.
   (C)   Inspection. The Sheriff or his or her designee shall have the right to
inspect any alarm system on the premises to which a law enforcement response
has been made at any reasonable time thereafter to determine whether the alarm
is being used in conformity with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.03 REVIEW OF FALSE ALARM DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Request for review. The Sheriff shall, when requested by an alarm
user, review the determination that an alarm was false. The review shall be
conducted only if the alarm user requests, in writing, a review.
   (B)   Review to include. The written request for review shall include:
      (1)   Alarm user name;
      (2)    Address at which the alarm is installed;
      (3)   Date of the contested false alarm; and
      (4)   Facts upon which the request for review of the false alarm
determination are made.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.04 DISCONTINUANCE OF RESPONSE.
   The failure of an alarm user to make payment of any penalties or fees
pursuant to this chapter shall result in a discontinuance of law enforcement
officer response to alarms occurring at the premises described in the alarm
user permit unless and until payment of assessed penalties and fees is
received.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.05 AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No automatic dial protection device shall be used to report, or cause
to be reported, any recorded message to the Sheriff or the communications
center of the Sheriff.
   (B)   The violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and any person
convicted of the violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate a burglary or robbery
alarm for the purpose of summoning law enforcement officers when no burglary,
robbery or other crime dangerous to life or property, is being committed or
attempted in or on the premises, or otherwise to cause a false alarm.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail to pay, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, for response(s) by the Sheriff to any
false alarm.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The county, its officers, employees and agents may enforce the provisions of
this chapter by one or a combination of any of the following methods:
   (A)   Prosecution for a misdemeanor where so provided within this chapter;
   (B)   Initiation of a civil action in the nature of a debt to collect the
civil penalties and fees provided for within this chapter; and/or
   (C)   Initiation of an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for an
injunction, abatement order or any other appropriate equitable remedy.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter adopted by the County Board of Commissioners on 4-1-1990.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is for any reason held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the subchapter which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this subchapter are declared to be severable.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Excessive false alarms. It is hereby found and determined that
three or more false alarms within a 12-month period is excessive and
constitutes a public nuisance.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   The third through the fifth false alarm within a 12-month period
will be assessed a $50 penalty per occurrence which shall be considered a debt
owed by the alarm user to the county and may be collected from the alarm user
as a civil penalty. Each $50 penalty incurred for the third through the fifth
false alarms at the premises described in the alarm user’s permit shall be paid
within 30 days from the date of the penalty notification.
         (b)   The sixth through eighth false alarms within a 12-month period
shall be billed at $100 per occurrence and collectable as in division (B)(1)
above.
         (c)   The ninth and tenth false alarms within a 12-month period shall
be billed at $150 per occurrence and shall be collectable as in division (B)(1)
above.
         (d)   All false alarms in excess of ten within a 12-month period shall
be billed at $250 per occurrence and shall be collectable as in division (B)(1)
above.
(Ord. O-96-5, passed 4-1-1996)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Establishment and composition of the Animal Control Section
   
91.03   General duties of Animal Control Section
   
91.04   General duties of keepers of animals
   
91.05   Cruelty to animals
   
91.06   Adequate feed, water and shelter
   
91.07   Animals at large
   
91.08   Animals creating nuisance
   
91.09   Destruction of animals that cannot be sized by reasonable means
   
91.10   Setting humane animal traps and authority to receive trapped animals
   
91.11   Confinement and control of inherently dangerous mammals
   
91.12   Confinement and control of dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.13   Requirements for dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.14   Requirements for attack training facility
   
91.15   Confiscation of dangerous dog
   
91.16   Required notification to Animal Control Section by owners of dangerous
dog or potentially dangerous dog
   
91.17   Appeal process for potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog
   
91.18   Teasing and molesting
   
91.19   Law enforcement dogs excluded
   
91.20   Interference with enforcement of chapter
Rabies Control
   
91.30   Compliance with state law, subchapter as supplement to state law
   
91.31   Inoculation of dogs, cats and other animals
   
91.32   Inoculation tag and proof of vaccination for dogs and cats
   
91.33   Evidence of inoculation of cats and ferrets
   
91.34   Report and confinement of animals biting persons or showing symptoms of
rabies
   
91.35   Management of dogs, cats and ferrets exposed to rabies
   
91.36   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
91.37   Postmortem diagnosis
   
91.38   Unlawful killing, releasing and the like of certain animals
   
91.39   Failure to surrender animal for quarantine or euthanasia
Community Cat Initiative
   
91.40   Community cats
   
91.41   Trap-Neuter-Return Programs
Impoundment
   
91.50   Generally
   
91.51   Notice to owner or community cat sponsoring organization
   
91.52   Redemption by owner or community cat caregiver generally
   
91.53   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animals generally
   
91.54   Procedure with respect to redemption or adoption of unvaccinated dog or
cat
   
91.55   Suspected rabid animals not to be redeemed or adopted
   
91.56   Destruction of wounded or diseased animals
   
91.57   Immediate placement for adoption or destruction of animal surrendered
by owner
   
91.58   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake, desert or give up an animal previously under the
custody or possession of a person without having secured another owner or
custodian or by failing to make reasonable arrangements for adequate care for
24 or more consecutive hours. A community cat caregiver who provides care to or
has temporary custody of a community cat in accordance with a Trap-Neuter-
Return Program as defined in this chapter is not deemed to have abandoned the
cat.
   ABUSE.
      (1)   Failing to provide an animal with adequate food and potable water
for more than 24 hours without written instructions from a veterinarian who has
recommended withholding food and water for medical reasons, or failing to
consistently provide food at intervals sufficient to maintain the animal's
health and well-being;
      (2)   Overworking or overdriving any animal causing physical pain,
suffering or death to the animal;
      (3)   Beating, torturing, molesting, harassing, injuring, tormenting,
poisoning or mutilating any animal causing physical pain, suffering or death to
the animal;
      (4)   Failing to provide adequate medical attention for any sick,
diseased or injured animal in order to prevent physical pain, suffering or
death to the animal;
      (5)   Keeping any animal under conditions which cause physical pain,
suffering, disability or death to the animal or which increase the probability
of the transmission of disease;
      (6)   Failing to provide an adequate shelter for an animal wherein the
animal can be protected from extremes of weather (heat, cold, rain, sun and the
like) and which is large enough to allow the animal to make normal body
movements;
      (7)   Failing to provide for animals, which are kept outside, a shelter,
which is surrounded on three sides, covered by a roof and has a floor
(excluding barns), and which is structurally sound, maintained in good repair
and constructed in the manner that it is water and wind resistant;
      (8)   Conveying any type of animal in a motor vehicle or in a wagon or
trailer pulled by a motor vehicle or in a truck or the back of a truck in the
way as to cause physical pain, suffering, disability or death to the animal; or
      (9)   Placing or confining an animal or allowing an animal to be placed
or confined in a motor vehicle under the conditions or for the period of time
as to cause physical pain, suffering or death to the animal due to temperature,
lack of food or drink or other conditions.
   ANIMAL. Excluding fish, any non-human vertebrate species, domestic or non-
domestic.
   ANIMAL BITE. An animal bite occurs when the teeth of the animal scratch or
break the skin of a human being or animal, regardless of the location of the
scratch or bite on the body.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is not under the
Restraint of a competent person when the animal is off the real property of the
owner. "Real property", in this context, includes curtilage and does not
include public rights-of-way or easements.
   ATTACK. An approach to a person by an unrestrained animal in a vicious,
terrorizing or threatening manner or apparent attitude of attack, without the
animal having been teased, molested, provoked, beaten, tortured or otherwise
harmed.
   ATTACK TRAINING FACILITY. Any person, group of persons, partnership or
corporation engaged in boarding, breeding, selling or training dogs or other
animals in mode of attack.
   COMMUNITY CAT. A cat that is abandoned, stray, lost, or feral and cared for
by a community cat caregiver pursuant to this chapter.
   COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER.
      (1)   A person who, in accordance with the Trap-Neuter-Return Program
defined in this chapter:
         (a)   Provides care, including food, shelter, or medical care to a
community cat; or
         (b)   Has temporary custody over a community cat.
      (2)   A COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER shall not be considered the owner or
keeper of a community cat.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has demonstrated a fierce or dangerous
propensity or tendency to do any act, which may endanger persons or property
and/or any non-domesticated animal indigenous to the state including hybrid
animals that are part wild. This would include, but not be limited to, any dog
which bites, attacks or inflicts severe injury on a human being without
provocation and/or which, while at large has killed or inflicted severe injury
on a pet or domestic animal. A potentially dangerous dog may be reclassified as
DANGEROUS DOG if it has two or more separate potentially dangerous dog
citations or violations (which fall under potentially dangerous dog) within 24
consecutive months. Exceptions: No dog is dangerous, pursuant to this
definition, if, at the time, the threat, injury or damage was sustained, the
person attacked was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or has
in the past teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. Nor shall a dog be considered dangerous, pursuant
to this definition, if it has attacked or injured a pet or domesticated animal
in defense of an attack by another animal or if it is protecting or defending
its young. A DANGEROUS DOG that has killed or inflicted severe injury on a pet
or domestic animal can have the designation removed if a) the dog and the owner
successfully pass an AKC Canine Good Citizen Test and b) have no reported
incidents to Animal Control for the 36 consecutive months after designation of
DANGEROUS DOG. It is the responsibility of the dog owner to submit a request
for designation removal to Animal Control after 36 consecutive months and
completion of AKC Canine Good Citizen Test. The Dangerous Dog designation
remains in effect until the dog owner receives written notification from Animal
Control that it has been removed.
   DEALER. Any person who is licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as
a dealer.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals such as horses, sheep, cattle,
goats, hogs, poultry and the like, domesticated by humans so as to live and
breed in a tame condition.
   EARTIPPING. The removal of the 1/4-inch tip of a community cat's left ear,
performed while the cat is under anesthesia, to identify the community cat as
being sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person who is licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture
as an exhibitor.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been EXPOSED TO RABIES within the meaning
of this chapter, if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known
or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that is not socialized.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The placement of an animal in the custody of the County Animal
Control Section or person or entity duly authorized by this chapter or the
Board of County Commissioners or by state law for the purpose.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS MAMMAL. Inherently dangerous mammal is any live member
of the canidae, felidae, or ursidae families, including hybrids thereof, which,
due to their inherent nature, may be considered dangerous to humans and which
include:
      (1)   CANIDAE. Any member of the dog (canid) family not customarily
domesticated by humans, or any hybrids thereof, including wolf hybrids which
are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog, but not including, domestic dogs
(Canis familiaris);
      (2)   FELIDAE. Any member of the cat family weighing over 15 pounds not
customarily domesticated by humans, or any hybrids thereof, but not including,
domestic cats (Fells catus); and
      (3)   URSIDAE. Any member of the bear family or any hybrids thereof.
   KENNEL, DEALER or BREEDER. Any person, group of persons, partnership or
corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male animal, which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal for more than five days. The owner is responsible for the
care, actions and behavior of his or her animals. In the event that the owner
of an animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of the minor shall be held
liable for noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter. A person, group
of persons, firm, partnership or corporation caring for or having temporary
custody of a community cat as a community cat caregiver shall not be considered
the owner or keeper of the cat.
   OWNER'S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog which, when unprovoked and at large, on
two separate occasions within the prior 24 month period, engages in any
behavior that requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily
injury; or (b) any dog which, when unprovoked and at large, bites a person
causing physical injury; or (c) any dog which, when unprovoked and at large
within the prior 24 month period, has seriously bitten, inflicted injury or
otherwise caused injury to a domestic animal. A POTENTIALLY DANGEORUS DOG may
be reclassified as a dangerous dog if it has two or more separate POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS DOG violations within 24 consecutive months. A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
DOG that does not have any reported violations for 36 consecutive months can
have the label of POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG removed. It is the responsibility
of the dog owner to submit a request for designation removal to Animal Control
after 36 consecutive months. The POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG designation remains
in effect until the dog owner receives written notification from Animal Control
that it has been removed.
   PREMISES. A definite portion of real estate, including land with its
appurtenances, a building or part of a building curtilage.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter
if (a) it is within the real property limits of its owner; (b) it is secured by
means of a leash or lead no more than six feet in length being held by an adult
capable of controlling the animal; (c) it is in a vehicle in a manner that
would prevent escape or contact with other persons or animals; or (d) it is
within the dwelling house. This definition does not apply to dogs that have
been deemed a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
   RESTRAINT OF A DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that has been deemed a dangerous dog is
under restraint within the meaning of this chapter if (a) it is within the real
property limits of its owner and securely confined thereon by a solid, physical
fence at least six feet in height and in the presence of an adult or securely
confined within the home or a secure enclosure or (b) when the dangerous dog is
off of the owner's real property, it is secured by means of a leash or lead no
more than six feet in length being held by a competent person capable of
controlling the dog and the dog is wearing an appropriately sized and secure
basket muzzle. If a dangerous dog does escape the above requirements for
RESTRAINT OF A DANGEROUS DOG, the owner may be required to install additional
security measures, which may include but are not limited to (a) a 45 degree
angled top to the fence to prevent the dog from climbing/jumping over the
fence, (b) building a secure enclosure in which to contain the dog within the
secure, solid fenced yard, (c) install preventative measures to prevent digging
under the fence.
   RESTRAINT OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that has been designated a
potentially dangerous dog is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if it is within the real property limits of its owner and securely confined
within a secure enclosure. While off the owner's real property, the definition
of restraint applies.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of adequate height, forming or
causing a humane enclosure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
prevent the entry of children. Underground fence is not a secure enclosure.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones, severe
lacerations, severe punctures, severe internal injuries or surgery.
   SPAYED. Any female animal, which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STERILIZATION. Any surgical or chemical procedure performed by a licensed
veterinarian that renders any male or female animal permanently incapable of
reproducing.
   STRAY. Any animal, which is running at large or appears to be lost, unwanted
or abandoned, or whose owner is unknown or not readily available.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN. The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, eartipping, and returning community cats to their
original location.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.02 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL SECTION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Animal Control Section of the county,
which shall be composed of the employees and/or officials, as shall be
determined by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Employees or agents enforcing this chapter shall be designated as
animal control officers. In the performance of their duties, animal control
officers shall have all the powers, authority and immunity granted under this
chapter and by the general laws and statutes of the state to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, relating to the care, treatment, control or
impounding of animals.
   (C)   Except as may be otherwise provided by statutes, laws or chapters, no
officer, agent or employee of the county charged with the duty of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws shall be personally liable
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of the duties.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.03 GENERAL DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL SECTION.
   (A)   The Animal Control Section shall be charged with the responsibility
of:
      (1)   Enforcing, in the county, all state and county laws, chapters and
resolutions relating to the care, custody and control of animals;
      (2)   Assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard
to animals and especially with regard to vaccination of animals against rabies
and the confinement or controlling of dangerous dogs;
      (3)   Investigating cruelty or abuse with regard to animals;
      (4)   Making the canvasses of the county, including the homes in the
county, as it deems necessary or as requested by law enforcement of the county
municipalities for the purpose of ascertaining that all animals are vaccinated
against rabies as required by local chapters or state statute; and
      (5)   Operating, pursuant to policies of the Board of County
Commissioners, the county animal shelter(s).
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Section to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
      (1)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the animal
shelter or shelters;
      (2)   Bite cases, violations and complaints, and investigation of same;
      (3)   All monies belonging to the county derived from impoundment fees,
penalties and sales of animals; and
      (4)   All other records deemed necessary by the County Environmental
Services Director or designee.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.04 GENERAL DUTIES OF KEEPERS OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse an animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession,
charge, custody or control of an animal to leave that animal on a street, road,
highway, public place or private property without having made adequate
provision for the animal’s care.
   (C)   Breeding and reproduction of diseased animals are prohibited. A person
owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of an animal shall not
breed, sell, give away or allow to reproduce any animal with a disease
contagious to animals or human beings.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse, molest, torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, beat, mutilate or kill, wound,
injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or
general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure the action. The words
“torture” and “torment” shall be held to include every act, omission or neglect
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted;
but the terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful shooting of birds, deer
and other game for human food; nor to prohibit an animal’s owner, a
veterinarian, the Director of Environmental Services or Animal Control Section
agents from destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane
manner, nor to prohibit the lawful use of animals in scientific research.
   (B)   Animal cruelty investigator(s) may be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners as provided under G.S. § 19A-45. An animal cruelty investigator
has the responsibility for carrying out the defined duties of an animal cruelty
investigator as mandated by G.S. § 19A, Article 4. An animal control officer
may be requested to accompany the investigator on animal seizures.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 ADEQUATE FEED, WATER, AND SHELTER.
   (A)   All dogs and cats shall be given adequate feed, adequate water and
adequate shelter. Adequate shelter is an enclosure of at least three sides, a
roof and a floor. The enclosure shall be ventilated and must have sufficient
room for the animal(s) to move about freely and to lie comfortably.
   (B)   Animals housed under the following conditions shall not constitute
adequate shelter:
      (1)   Underneath outside steps, decks and stoops;
      (2)   Inside of vehicles;
      (3)   Underneath vehicles;
      (4)   Inside metal or plastic barrels or cardboard boxes; and
      (5)   Rooms, sheds or other buildings without windows or proper
ventilation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit an animal to be at
large. This section shall not apply to a community cat caregiver.
      (2)   The Animal Control Section may confiscate any animal found to be at
large and impound it at the county animal shelter in accordance with §§
91.50 through
91.58.
   (B)   (1)   An owner may lawfully permit an animal which has not been deemed
a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog to be at large in the course of
a show, obedience school, tracking tests, field training or other events
sanctioned or supervised by a recognized organization. Hunting dogs may be at
large in the course of hunting if under the control of the owner.
      (2)   However, this provision does not exempt an owner from otherwise
complying with §
91.08 or any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession,
charge, custody or control of any dog to take the dog into or allow the dog to
enter any public park without being at all times under the restraint of a leash
unless the park is designated as a dog park.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession,
charge, custody or control of a female dog or female cat to allow that animal
to be at large during its estrus period. During this period, the owner or
person having possession of the animal must restrain the animal in an enclosure
in the manner that will prevent the animal from coming in contact with a male
of its species. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the intentional
breeding of animals on the premises of the owners or keepers of the animals
involved.
   (E)   Any owner reclaiming a cat or dog that has been running at large shall
be required to have his or her animal microchipped by a licensed veterinarian
within ten business days.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2017)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in the manner so as to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The actions of an animal constitute a nuisance when an animal disturbs
the rights of, threatens the safety of or damages a member of the general
public or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of private or public
property:
      (1)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly disturbs,
interferes with or annoys human beings;
      (2)   Maintaining an animal that tips over garbage pails or damages
gardens, flowers or vegetables;
      (3)   Failing to confine in a building or secure enclosure a female dog
while in estrus;
      (4)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, howl or yowl in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion, or to make other noise in the manner
so as to result in a serious annoyance or interference with the reasonable use
and enjoyment of neighboring premises. Any person lodging the complaint shall
be responsible for pursuing available judicial remedies by filing the action
with the appropriate judicial authority;
      (5)   Maintaining an animal that chases, snaps at, attacks or otherwise
molests pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers or farm stock or
domestic animals;
      (6)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or continuously loiters on
public places; and
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the health
of the public unless under the care of a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS THAT CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that cannot
be seized by reasonable and normal means, retrieved by an animal control
officer, trapped in a humane, live-capture animal trap provided by the Animal
Control Section, or tranquilized by animal control personnel, may be humanely
destroyed in the field upon the authorization of the Animal Control director or
the director’s designee. Provided, a vicious animal, a dangerous animal so
designated by the Animal Control Section, or an animal attacking a human being,
another pet or livestock may be immediately destroyed if, in the opinion of the
Animal Control Section Field Supervisor or designee or animal control officer,
the destruction is necessary for the protection of the public health and safety
of the public or livestock.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.10 SETTING HUMANE ANIMAL TRAPS AND AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE TRAPPED ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Section is authorized to place, upon request of the
property owner or lessee, live-capture animal traps on private or public
property to trap and remove stray, at large, abandoned or nuisance animals. It
is unlawful for any person other than an animal control officer or the
officer’s designee to remove any animal from the trap or to damage, destroy,
move or tamper with the trap. The Animal Control Section is authorized to
receive and impound animals that are trapped by other agencies or persons. The
Animal Control Section shall offer to a property owner, lessee, or other
resident who calls about stray or community cats information about Trap-Neuter-
Return, and shall offer to refer the individual to a Trap-Neuter-Return
Program.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF INHERENTLY DANGEROUS MAMMALS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep an inherently
dangerous mammal within the county.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Any nonprofit institution or exhibitor or dealer, which owns or
harbors inherently dangerous mammals for research; provided that, the
institution/facility/premises are licensed by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture or Interior;
      (2)   Traveling fairs, circuses and carnivals shall also be exempt from
this section; and
      (3)   Any inherently dangerous mammal registered with the Animal Control
Section prior to 6-3-1990.
   (C)   Recapturing. The owner of any inherently dangerous mammal shall
reimburse the county for all costs incurred while attempting to recapture any
mammal. If the animal is sheltered or euthanized by Animal Control, the owner
shall also pay these costs.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF DANGEROUS DOGS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
DOGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner to maintain or harbor unrestrained any
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
   (B)   For a dangerous dog, the owner shall post a plainly visible sign upon
the premises warning that a dangerous dog is on the premises. The sign shall be
deemed an incidental sign for the purposes of the County Zoning Ordinance. The
sign's placement will be determined and approved by the Wake County Animal
Control Section.
   (C)   A dog deemed a "dangerous dog" shall be under constant restraint,
under the definition for restraint of a dangerous dog, from the date that the
dog is deemed dangerous and during any appeal process. If the appeal process is
exhausted and the dangerous dog designation upheld, the dog will be kept under
"restraint of a dangerous dog" from that point on until any such time that said
designation may be removed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A dog deemed "potentially dangerous" shall be under constant
restraint, under the definition for restraint of a potentially dangerous dog,
from the date that the dog is deemed a potentially dangerous dog and during any
appeal process. If the appeal process is exhausted and the potentially
dangerous dog designation upheld, the dog will be kept under "restraint of
potentially dangerous dog" from that point on until any such time that said
designation may be removed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Dogs trained or being trained in mode of attack are subject to this
section.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 REQUIREMENTS FOR DANGEROUS DOGS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   If a dog is declared to be a "dangerous dog" by the Animal Control
Section, the dog's owner shall have the dog sterilized within 30 days of a
final determination of being "Dangerous" and exhaustion of any appeal(s)
thereof, and shall provide proof that the dog has been sterilized to the Wake
County Animal Control Section.
   (B)   If a dog is declared to be a "dangerous dog" by the Wake County Animal
Control Section, the dog's owner shall have the dog microchipped within ten
business days of final determination of dangerous dog and shall provide proof
that the dog has been microchipped to the Wake County Animal Control Section.
   (C)   If a dog is declared to be a "potentially dangerous dog" by the Wake
County Animal Control Section, the dog's owner shall have the dog microchipped
within ten business days of being declared a "potentially dangerous dog" and
shall provide proof that the dog has been microchipped to the Wake County
Animal Control Section.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 REQUIREMENTS FOR ATTACK TRAINING FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons, partnership or
corporation to conduct training in mode of attack for dogs or other animals at
any location unless the training is conducted within a secure enclosure.
   (B)   The training within a secure enclosure is within the meaning of this
chapter if it is performed within a fence or structure of adequate height to
prevent the dog or animal from jumping, climbing or otherwise escaping from the
enclosure, and the training is conducted in the presence of the owner(s) or
trainer(s) at all times.
   (C)   Any dog or animal trained or being trained in mode of attack is deemed
to be dangerous and is subject to all the provisions of this chapter relative
to dangerous dogs or dangerous animals.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 CONFISCATION OF DANGEROUS DOG.
   Any dangerous dogs not kept in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter may be confiscated by the animal control officer and harbored at the
owner’s expense until the owner complies with the requirements of this chapter,
or disposed of as provided in §
91.12.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.16 REQUIRED NOTIFICATION TO ANIMAL CONTROL SECTION BY OWNERS OF DANGEROUS
DOG OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall inform the
Animal Control Section as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours,
after the occurrence of any of the following:
   (A)   An assault, attack or biting upon a human committed by any such animal
in the owner's care or control;
   (B)   An attack or biting upon any domesticated animal or pet while the dog
is at large;
   (C)   The roaming or escape of any dog required to be restrained.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 APPEAL PROCESS FOR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG OR DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Owners of dogs that have been deemed a potentially dangerous dog or a
dangerous dog have the right to appeal the designation to the Wake County Human
Services Board. A request to appeal shall be addressed to the Animal Services
Director.
   (B)   Any such appeal shall be governed by the process set forth in the Wake
County Human Services Board Rules of Appeal. A copy of these rules will be
presented to the dog owner at the time of designation by Animal Control. The
rules can also be found on the Wake County Government website.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 TEASING AND MOLESTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease or molest any animal.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 LAW ENFORCEMENT DOGS EXCLUDED.
   Any dog used by a law enforcement agency in the investigation of crimes or
as otherwise necessary in the enforcement of the law is excluded from
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.20 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest
Animal Control Section agents or officers or veterinarians in the performance
of any duty authorized by this chapter, or to seek to release any animal in the
custody of the agents or officers.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.30 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW, SUBCHAPTER AS SUPPLEMENT TO STATE LAW.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 INOCULATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog, cat or ferret four months
of age or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the County Environmental
Services Director, the County Human Services Director, the County Manager or
the state’s Public Health Veterinarian that other animals be inoculated to
prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be
unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current inoculation against rabies for
that animal(s).
   (B)   When a licensed veterinarian administers a rabies vaccine to a dog or
cat, the dog or cat shall be re-vaccinated one year later and every three years
thereafter, if a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture
as a three-year vaccine is used. Annual re-vaccination shall be required for
all rabies vaccine used other than the U.S. Department of Agriculture three-
year vaccine. When a certified rabies vaccinator administers rabies vaccine to
a dog, cat or ferret, the dog, cat or ferret shall be re-vaccinated annually.
   (C)   When a licensed veterinarian administers rabies vaccine to a ferret,
the ferret shall be re- vaccinated one year later and every year thereafter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 INOCULATION TAG AND PROOF OF VACCINATION FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)    Upon complying with the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.39, there shall be issued to the owner of the animal inoculated a numbered
metallic tag, stamped with the number and the year for which issued, and
indicating that the animal has been inoculated against rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide the dog with
a collar to which a current tag issued under this section is securely attached.
The collar with attached tag, must be worn at all times, except during the time
the dog is hunting or is performing at shows, obedience trials, tracking tests,
field trials, schools or other events sanctioned and supervised by a recognized
organization.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to use for an animal a rabies inoculation tag
issued for another animal.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog or cat to
fail to provide written proof that the animal has a current rabies inoculation
when the Animal Control Section demands written proof.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 EVIDENCE OF INOCULATION OF CATS AND FERRETS.
   Cats and ferrets shall not be required to wear the metallic tag referred to
in §
91.32 of this chapter, but the owner of a cat or ferret shall maintain the
rabies vaccination certificates as written evidence to prove that the cat has a
current rabies inoculation. A cat that has been eartipped is presumed to have
been vaccinated at least once.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012; Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.34 REPORT AND CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS BITING PERSONS OR SHOWING SYMPTOMS OF
RABIES.
   (A)    Every dog, cat or ferret which has bitten any person shall be
confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the Animal Control
Section and, thereupon, shall be securely quarantined, at the direction of the
Animal Control Section, for a period of ten days, and shall not be released
from the quarantine except by documented permission from the Animal Control
Section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to report as soon as
possible that an animal has bitten a person. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to inform the Animal Control Section of the whereabouts of an
animal that has bitten a person, if the owner or keeper has given the animal
away or in any way caused the animal to be taken from the owner’s or keeper’s
premises.
   (C)   If there is any evidence that an animal bite may have occurred, it
shall be assumed by law that a bite did occur, and quarantine procedures shall
apply if required.
   (D)   Every dog, cat or ferret quarantined under this section shall be
confined at the expense of its owner or keeper in a veterinary hospital or at
the county animal shelter, if space is available; provided, however, that, if
an animal control officer determines that the owner or keeper of a dog, cat or
ferret which must be quarantined has adequate confinement facilities upon his
or her own premises, the animal control officer may authorize the dog, cat or
ferret to be confined on the premises upon proof of current vaccination against
rabies. If the dog, cat or ferret is confined on its owner’s or keeper’s
premises, an animal control officer shall revisit the premises for inspection
purposes on the fifth and tenth day of the confinement period. If the owner or
keeper fails to provide continuous quarantine of the dog, cat or ferret on his
or her premises as instructed, the animal shall be removed by an animal control
officer and quarantined at a veterinary hospital or at the county animal
shelter at the owner’s cost. The owner or keeper shall agree in writing to the
above conditions prior to the animal control officer authorizing confinement on
the owner or keeper’s property.
   (E)   In cases of stray animals of unknown ownership, the supervised
quarantine required shall be at the county animal shelter or at a licensed
veterinary hospital, or in lieu of supervised quarantine at the direction of
the Animal Control Section, the animal may be euthanized, and the head examined
for rabies.
   (F)   If rabies does not develop within ten days after a dog, cat or ferret
is quarantined under this section, the dog, cat or ferret may be released from
quarantine with the documented permission of the Animal Control Section. If the
dog, cat or ferret has been confined in the county animal shelter, the owner
shall pay any necessary veterinarian fees and a boarding fee approved by the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (G)   In the case of a non-dog, cat or ferret or bat suspected of carrying
rabies, the animal may be euthanized, and the head examined for rabies.
   (H)   (1)   The Animal Control Section will make a determination as to
whether any stray, owner-surrendered, or abandoned animal that has bitten a
person is to be considered adoptable. If the animal is not determined to be
adoptable, it may be disposed of as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Determination of whether or not a bite animal will not be
considered adoptable is guided by the Bite Waiver Policy in place at the county
animal shelter.
   (I)   Every dog, cat or ferret which shows symptoms of rabies shall be
confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the Animal Control
Section and, thereupon, humanely euthanized by either a licensed veterinarian
or at the Wake County Animal Center. If any exposure to a person or other
animal is suspected, the dog, cat or ferret will have the head examined for
rabies.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35 MANAGEMENT OF DOGS, CATS AND FERRETS EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   When the local health director or designee reasonably suspects that a dog,
cat or ferret has been exposed to the saliva or nervous tissue of a proven
rabid animal or animal reasonably suspected of having rabies that is not
available for laboratory diagnosis, the dog, cat or ferret shall be considered
to have been exposed to rabies. The recommendations and guidelines for rabies
post-exposure management specified by the National Association of State Public
Health Veterinarians in the most current edition of the Compendium of Animal
Rabies Prevention and Control (the “Compendium”) shall be the required control
measures.
   (A)   For purposes of applying the required control measures set forth in
the Compendium, appropriate documentation of prior rabies vaccination shall be
a valid rabies vaccination certificate or an official veterinary record of a
prior rabies vaccine for that specific animal, provided by the animal’s owner.
It is the sole responsibility of the animal’s owner to provide appropriate
documentation of the animal’s prior rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Dogs, cats and ferrets exposed to rabies shall be seen by a North
Carolina licensed veterinarian immediately for wound care and guidance on post-
exposure management.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.36 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)    When reports indicate a cluster of positive rabies cases, the local
health director or designee may order an area-wide emergency quarantine for the
period as he or she deems necessary. Upon invoking an emergency quarantine, no
dog, cat, ferret or other carnivores shall be taken into the streets or
permitted to be in the streets during the emergency quarantine period. During
the emergency quarantine, no dog, cat or ferret or other carnivore may be taken
or shipped from the county without written permission of the Animal Control
Section, and the municipal police departments located within Wake County, and
the Wake County Sheriff’s Office, are hereby directed during the emergency
quarantine to impound any dog, cat, ferret or other carnivore found running at
large in the county. During the quarantine period, the Animal Control Section
or local health authorities shall provide for a section of mass immunization by
the establishment of temporary emergency rabies vaccination facilities located
throughout the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, the period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the local health director or designee.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.37 POSTMORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)    If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of the
animal shall be submitted to the State Laboratory of Public Health for rabies
diagnosis.
   (B)   The carcass of any animal suspected of dying of rabies which came in
contact with a person or other domestic animal capable of contracting rabies,
shall be surrendered to the Animal Control Section. The head of the animal
shall be submitted to the State Laboratory of Public Health for rabies
diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.38 UNLAWFUL KILLING, RELEASING AND THE LIKE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies,
or any animal biting a human, or to remove the animal from the county without
permission from the Animal Control Section.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR QUARANTINE OR EUTHANASIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or euthanasia as required in this subchapter or when the
Animal Control Section makes demand.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
91.99
COMMUNITY CAT INITIATIVE
§ 91.40 COMMUNITY CATS.
   The County of Wake adopts this community cat initiative subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 91.41 TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Organizations or individuals that engage in Trap-Neuter-Return are
encouraged to register through a sponsoring organization. Organizations
performing or supporting Trap-Neuter-Return in Wake County shall identify and
nominate a community cat sponsoring organization, which shall be recognized by
the Wake County Environmental Services Director or his designee.
   (B)   The community cat sponsoring organization shall make available to the
public information about Trap-Neuter-Return and feral cats, shall attempt to
notify the appropriate community cat caregiver when notified by the Animal
Services Division about an impounded eartipped cat, and shall provide a single
point of contact to the Animal Services Division for the coordination of Trap-
Neuter-Return, calls about at large cats, and calls about complaints related to
community cats.
   (C)   Responsibilities of the community cat caregiver:
      (1)   Cats must be trapped using humane trapping techniques;
      (2)   Cats must be assessed by a veterinarian and deemed healthy at the
time of spay/neuter surgery;
      (3)   Cats must be spayed or neutered;
      (4)   Cats must be vaccinated for rabies and FVRCP (Feline Viral
Rhinotracheitis, Calicivirus, and Panleukopenia);
      (5)   Cats must be eartipped;
      (6)   Cat bites must be reported to Wake County Animal Control.
   (D)   Responsibilities of Wake County Animal Services Division.
      (1)   Persons that contact Wake County Animal Services about stray or
community cats shall be provided information about Trap-Neuter-Return and
referred to the community cat sponsoring organization.
      (2)   When a person contacts Wake County Animal Services with a complaint
about an eartipped community cat, county staff will contact the community cat
sponsoring organization for assistance in resolving the complaint.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.50 GENERALLY.
   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or unwanted, or which is not
wearing a valid rabies vaccination tag, as required by state law or this
chapter, and found at large, may be impounded by the Animal Control Section and
confined in an animal shelter. Impoundment of the animal shall not relieve the
owner thereof from any penalty, which may be imposed for violation of this
chapter. An eartipped cat shall not be impounded under this section unless a
complaint has been lodged against the cat pursuant to other applicable sections
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 91.51 NOTICE TO OWNER OR COMMUNITY CAT SPONSORING ORGANIZATION.
   Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal Control Section shall make
reasonable effort to notify the owner or community cat sponsoring organization
and inform the owner or community cat sponsoring organization of the conditions
whereby the animal may be redeemed. If the owner or community cat sponsoring
organization is unknown or cannot be located, the animal shall be assigned an
impoundment identification number and release date. The impoundment
identification number and release date shall be posted on the animal’s cage or
kennel at the animal control shelter for a minimum of three business days and
any information about the animal, including the time and place of the taking of
the animal and the time and date of posting the notice of impoundment, shall be
available at the animal control shelter by reference to the impoundment
identification number.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 91.52 REDEMPTION BY OWNER OR COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER GENERALLY.
   (A)   The owner or community cat caregiver of an animal impounded under this
chapter may redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within 72 hours or
three business days after notice of impoundment is given or posted, as required
by §
91.51 by complying with all applicable provisions of this chapter and paying
any necessary veterinarian’s fee, boarding fee and cost incurred in capture
approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   No animal owner or community cat caregiver may be permitted to adopt
his or her own animal under the provisions of §
91.53 in order to reclaim an animal that has been impounded pursuant to state
law or this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 91.53 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within the period
prescribed in §
91.52, it may be destroyed in a humane manner or shall become the property of
the animal shelter and offered for adoption. A new adult owner or community cat
caregiver who agrees to comply with this chapter may acquire an impounded
animal; however, any prospective new owner or community cat caregiver shall not
be an animal dealer who acquires animals for resale. The prospective new owner
or community cat caregiver must pay any required fees. The county will not
purposefully release for adoption any animal that has previously bitten a
person, is aggressive or is potentially dangerous. Fees may be waived at the
discretion of the Environmental Services Director or designee for rescue groups
and other animal welfare groups that apply in writing to the section. The
placement of animals with these organizations will be determined on a case-by-
case basis.
   (B)   All unsterilized dogs and cats five months of age or older adopted
from the county animal shelter shall be either spayed or neutered within 30
days of their adoption. All animals adopted under five months of age shall be
spayed or neutered at six months of age. The adopter shall promptly provide
written proof of the sterilization to the Animal Control Section. The adoption
of any animal not sterilized pursuant to this section shall be deemed to
violate the provision of this section and must be returned by the applicant for
re-adoption to the county animal shelter. The Animal Control Section is
authorized to obtain an adoption agreement from an applicant to implement the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   (1)   The animal shelter shall require from the adopter a
sterilization deposit fee established by the Board of Commissioners to ensure
that sterilization is obtained in addition to the established adoption fee if
the animal has not been sterilized prior to its being adopted.
      (2)   When written proof that a licensed veterinarian has performed the
required sterilization is returned to the Animal Control Section, a fee equal
to the sterilization portion of the deposit will be reimbursed to the adopter.
A person who fails within the specified time to arrange for the sterilization
of an unsterilized cat or dog adopted from the animal shelter forfeits the
sterilization deposit fee and shall surrender the cat or dog to the animal
shelter.
   (D)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray and
unclaimed shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter during a
period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant to §
91.36 except by special authorization of the Director of Environmental
Services.
   (E)   Any animal that exhibits fierce, dangerous or aggressive behavior will
not be offered for adoption.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 91.54 PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT TO REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOG OR
CAT.
   (A)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, every
person who either adopts or redeems a dog or cat at the animal shelter shall
have his or her animal vaccinated for rabies. A one-year vaccination may be
obtained at the time of reclaim or adoption at the county animal shelter. Each
redeemed community cat shall be vaccinated at the animal shelter. If the owner
or adopter wishes to receive the vaccine for his or her animal at a veterinary
practice of their choice, they will be given a “proof of rabies vaccination
card” at the time of the redemption or adoption. This card will be stamped with
a date stating the maximum time limit allowed to take the dog or cat to the
veterinarian of the person’s choice for rabies vaccination. The time limit for
dogs and cats four months and older will be 72 hours, with Sundays and holidays
excluded. For puppies and kittens under four months, the Environmental Services
Director or his or her designee will determine the time limit according to
their age within 72 hours of the designated date.
   (B)   The “proof of rabies vaccination card” will be completed and returned
to the animal shelter by the veterinarian. If this card is not returned to the
animal shelter within the time limit specified on the card, an animal control
officer will be dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat.
   (C)   Payment for the rabies vaccination provided for in this section will
be the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the animal.
   (D)   The adoption agreement will be completed at the time of adoption. If
the adopter fails to comply with the agreement, an animal control officer may
be dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat if corrective action has not been
taken by the animal’s owner.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.55 SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS NOT TO BE REDEEMED OR ADOPTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, animals impounded which
appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but shall
be dealt with in accordance with §§
91.30 through
91.39 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.56 DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any animal
impounded, which is seriously wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and
has no identification shall be destroyed immediately. If the animal has
identification, the Animal Control Section shall attempt to notify the owner
before disposing of such, but if the owner cannot be reached readily, and the
animal is suffering, the Animal Control Section may destroy the animal, at its
discretion, in a humane manner.
   (B)   The Animal Control Section has the authority to humanely destroy
severely injured livestock upon the owner’s request or when the owner is
unknown.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.57 IMMEDIATE PLACEMENT FOR ADOPTION OR DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL SURRENDERED
BY OWNER.
   An animal surrendered by its owner to the Animal Control Section may be
immediately placed for adoption or humanely destroyed at the discretion of the
Environmental Services Director or the Director’s designee without compliance
with §
91.51 when the owner:
   (A)   Affirmatively represents in writing that he or she is the legal owner
of the animal;
   (B)   Agrees to hold the county and its officials and employees harmless
from any liability, claims or damages that may be sustained by reason of the
adoption or destruction of the animal; and
   (C)   Transfers ownership of the animal to the Animal Control Section.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.58 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter supercedes the County Animal Control Ordinance passed 6-3-1990.
This chapter is adopted on 5-3-2004.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be fined a civil penalty of $200. If the
violation is continued, each day’s violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Payment of the penalties shall be made within ten days. Civil
penalties may be assessed by citation and recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   If any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall, when
unprovoked, attack, assault, wound, bite or otherwise injure or kill a human,
the owner shall pay a $500 civil penalty and, after a ten- day waiting period
exclusive of Sundays and holidays, the dog shall be destroyed by the Animal
Control Section. For each owner’s subsequent violation, the owner shall pay a
$1,500 civil penalty for owning or keeping a dangerous dog which attacks,
assaults, wounds, bites or otherwise injures or kills a human.
      (3)   If any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall, when
unprovoked, kill, wound or assist in killing or wounding any domestic animal or
pet, the owner of the dog shall pay a $250 civil penalty. The Animal Control
Section shall confiscate and, after the expiration of a ten-day waiting period
exclusive of Sundays and holidays, destroy the dangerous dog. For each
subsequent violation, the owner shall pay a civil penalty of $500.
      (4)   Violation of this chapter may subject the violator to criminal as
well as civil action. In addition to the civil penalties or fees imposed under
this chapter, violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor for which a
criminal summons may be issued. Each day’s violation of this section is a
separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to
this division does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes,
civil penalties or fees imposed under this chapter.
      (5)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner permitting an animal to be at large, under §
91.07, shall pay a civil penalty of:
         (a)   First violation: $100, plus shelter reclaim fee and any boarding
fee;
         (b)   Second violation: $150, plus shelter reclaim fee and any
boarding fee; and
         (c)   Succeeding violation: $200, plus shelter reclaim fee and any
boarding fee.
      (2)   The penalty shall be paid within 72 hours of the issuance of a
citation for violation of §
91.07.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Prohibition of noise pollution
   
92.04   Exceptions to prohibition of noise pollution
   
92.05   Prohibited noises
   
92.06   Burden of persuasion regarding exceptions to noise restrictions
   
92.07   Enforcement and penalty
   
92.08   Severability
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Noise Pollution
Ordinance of Wake County.” This chapter applies to the control of all noise
originating within the unincorporated limits of Wake County.
   (B)   The Wake County Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) regulates non-
residential uses and subjects them to site performance standards, which include
noise limitations. When the UDO performance standards are applied, those non-
residential uses are not subject to the standards specified in this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-36) (Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord. passed 10-4-2004; Res.
passed 12-4-2023)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION. On-site erection, fabrication, installation, alteration,
demolition or removal of any structure, facility or addition thereto, including
all related activities, including, but not restricted to, clearing of land,
earth moving, blasting and landscaping.
   DAYTIME HOURS. 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., local time.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition,
work required to protect, provide or prevent persons or property from danger or
potential danger; or work by private or public utilities when restoring utility
service.
   NIGHTTIME HOURS. 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., local time.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound or vibration caused by sound that can be detected
by a reasonable person of ordinary sensitivities using their unaided hearing
faculties.
   REASONABLE PERSON. A person of normal and ordinary sensitivities who is
within the area of the audibility or perceptibility of the noise or vibration
that transmits sounds which disrupt the reasonable conduct of basic human
activities, such as conversation, sleep, work and other such activities.
   SOUND-MAGNIFYING DEVICE. Any device or machine for the amplification of the
human voice, music or any other sound. SOUND MAGNIFYING DEVICE shall not
include factory-installed automobile radios when used and heard only by
occupants of the vehicle in which the device was installed; warning devices on
police, fire, ambulance or other emergency vehicles or vehicles used solely for
traffic safety purposes; or horns or steam whistles which are used for purposes
authorized by §§
92.05(A) and (E) respectively.
   UNREASONABLE NOISE. The making of, or knowingly and permitting to be made,
any sound that a reasonable person finds unreasonably loud, boisterous, or
unusual noise, disturbance, commotion, or vibration due to bass levels or other
sources from any dwelling, building, other structure, or privately-owned
outdoor property, or upon any public street, park or other place or building.
Any sound that is ordinary and normal to the operation of these places when
conducted in accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner
that will not unreasonably interfere with the peace and comfort of neighbors or
their guest, or operators or customers in places of business, or detrimentally
or adversely affect such residences or places of business, shall not be
enforced as an unreasonable noise.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-37) (Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord. passed 10-4-2004; Res.
passed 12-4-2023)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITION OF NOISE POLLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the
emission of any unreasonable noise in the county. Specifically, it shall be
unlawful to create or emit noise of the character, intensity or duration as to
be detrimental to the health of any individual.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to play any radio, music player, television,
audio system or musical instrument in the manner or at the volume as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of neighboring inhabitants or at a
volume which is plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the
premises in which the device or instrument is played and who are voluntary
listeners thereto.
      (3)   Except for organized events which have received any type of permit
required in conjunction with the event, it shall be unlawful to play any radio,
music player, television or audio system upon a public right-of-way or upon
other public property in the manner or at the volume as to disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of other persons.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-38)
    (B)   No person shall play any radio, music player or audio system in a
motor vehicle at the volume as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other
persons or at a volume which is plainly audible to persons other than the
occupants of the vehicle.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-38.1)
   (C)   (1)   No sound magnifying device mounted on a vehicle shall be
operated between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. or at any time within
500 feet of any school, church or hospital in the manner or at a volume which
is plainly audible to persons other than the occupants of the vehicle.
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to sound magnifying
devices and controlled by any governmental entity or to private ambulances
which are engaged in responding to emergency calls.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-38.2)
(Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord. passed 4-4-1994; Ord. passed 10-4-2004; Res.
passed 12-4-2023) Penalty §  
10.99
§ 92.04 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION OF NOISE POLLUTION.
   (A)   The following are exceptions to the prohibition of noise pollution:
      (1)   Emergency warning devices or safety signals.
      (2)   Lawn care equipment and agricultural activities during the daytime
hours.
      (3)   Equipment being used for construction during daytime hours,
provided that all equipment, manufacturers’ mufflers and noise reducing
equipment is operated with all standard equipment, manufacturers’ mufflers and
noise reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition.
      (4)   Parades, fairs, circuses, other similar public entertainment,
sporting events taking place during daytime hours in areas set aside for such
activities, or any activities normally associated with any of the above,
provided that in any sporting event utilizing motor vehicles the vehicles be
equipped with properly operating mufflers and noise reducing equipment as would
be required for operation of the motor on the public streets.
      (5)   Chimes and similar devices which operate during daytime hours for a
duration of no longer than five minutes in any given period.
      (6)   Emergency work.
      (7)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways during
nighttime hours when the public welfare and convenience renders it impractical
to perform the work during daytime hours.
      (8)   Stadiums, arenas, and outdoor sports or entertainment facilities as
defined under the Unified Development Ordinance.
      (9)   Sound associated with the delivery of public services.
      (10)   Outdoor school and playground activities, reasonable activities
conducted on public playgrounds and public or private school grounds, which are
conducted in accordance with the manner in which such spaces are generally
used, including, but not limited to, school athletic and school entertainment
events during daytime hours.
      (11)   Airport operations and any aircraft in conformity with, or
pursuant to federal law, federal air regulations, and air traffic control
instruction used pursuant to and within the duly adopted federal air
regulations.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-40) (Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord. O-94-6, passed 4-4-1994;
Ord. passed 10-4- 2004; Res. passed 12-4-2023) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 92.05 PROHIBITED NOISES.
   In addition to any other violation of this section, the following acts are
specifically declared to be plainly audible unreasonable noise, the creation or
emission of which shall be unlawful. The enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound or the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (B)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, so modified, or driven in such a manner as to be plainly
audible upon any reasonable person so as to create unreasonably loud grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise.
   (C)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police, fire,
ambulance or other emergency vehicles.
   (D)   The playing of any sound magnifying device, radio, television, stereo,
phonograph amplifier system, tape deck, tape recorder or other musical
instrument in such a manner or with such volume, during nighttime hours, as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any reasonable person in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence.
   (E)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger.
   (F)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
unreasonable noise therefrom.
   (G)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless the
noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced.
   (H)   The creation or emission of plainly audible unreasonable noise
associated with the erection, alteration, substantial repair, or demolition of
any building, earth moving activities, street paving or utility construction,
in a residential or business district during nighttime hours except in the
following instances:
      (1)   Where the construction as stated above is 1,000 feet from the
nearest dwelling, hotel, motel or other type of residence or business
establishment.
      (2)   When the residents of all dwellings, hotels, motels or other types
of residences or business establishments located less than 1,000 feet from the
construction as stated above give their written permission for the construction
to continue at all hours.
      (3)   Where the construction as stated above, because of the very nature
of the construction, must be continuous at all hours or because of either
federal or state law or regulation must be continuous at all hours.
      (4)   Emergency work or construction for the preservation of public
health or safety is permitted at any time.
   (I)   The creation of plainly audible unreasonable noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicles, or the opening, closing or destruction of
bales, boxes, crates and containers.
   (J)   The creation of plainly audible unreasonable noise in connection with
the shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers or vendors which disturbs
the quiet and peace of the neighborhood. This section is to be applied only to
those situations where the disturbance is not a result of the content of the
communication, but due to the volume, location, timing or other factors not
based on content.
   (K)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of plainly audible unreasonable
noise to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise. However, this
section does not apply to noise created by devices, bands or musical
instruments used in any public parade or public procession, nor to a public
fair, public circus or public athletic event.
   (L)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause plainly audible unreasonable
noise to be emitted therefrom during nighttime hours.
   (M)   The firing or discharging of firearms in the streets or elsewhere for
the purpose of making noise or disturbance.
   (N)   The conducting of contests of "turkey shoots" where firearms are
discharged in trials of skill and the contestants shoot for turkeys or other
prizes, except during daytime hours.
   (O)   The keeping of any bird, livestock or other animal which by causing
frequent or long continued plainly audible unreasonable noise disturbs the
comfort or repose of any reasonable person in the vicinity.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-41) (Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord. passed 10-4-2004; Res.
passed 12-4-2023) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 92.06 BURDEN OF PERSUASION REGARDING EXCEPTIONS TO NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   In any proceeding pursuant to this section, if an exception may be
applicable to limit an obligation to comply with the regulations herein, the
person who would benefit from the application of the exception shall have the
burden of persuasion that the exception applies and that the terms of the
exception have been met.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-43) (Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord. passed 10-4-2004; Res.
passed 12-4-2023)
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   The Wake County Sheriff's Office shall be responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter and determining violations.
   (B)   Upon determination that there is probable cause to believe that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, the Wake County Sheriff's Office shall
determine, if feasible, the source of the unreasonable noise and promptly
notify the person responsible for the unreasonable noise of the fact that a
violation has occurred.
   (C)   Failure on the part of the person or persons responsible to timely
comply with the Wake County Sheriff's Office directive to eliminate the
violation or to otherwise abate the violation, after notification, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter of this code of ordinances shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500 and each day that
any of the provisions of this chapter of this code of ordinances are violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-44) (Ord. O-93-13, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 10-4-2004;
Res. passed 12-4-2023)
§ 92.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is for any reason held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or applications of the chapter which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of
this chapter are declared to be severable.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-44) (Ord. O-93-13, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 10-4-2004;
Res. passed 12-4-2023)
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND PICKETING  
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permit required; exceptions
   
93.03   Permit, application
   
93.04   Permit, request for issuance; findings; appeals from denial
   
93.05   Permit, revocation
   
93.06   Standards of conduct; parades and picketing
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVITY CHAIRPERSON. The person who is physically responsible for the
conduct of the parade and the person to whom all notices and communications
from the Sheriff may be given. The ACTIVITY CHAIRPERSON, or his or her
designee, must be present and participate in the parade, or the parade permit
is void.
   APPROVED LOCATIONS. All county-owned property, property leased by the
county, property exclusively controlled by the county and any portion of the
state right-of-way of any road or highway within the county which:
      (1)   Is not under the control of the state’s Board of Transportation or
of any municipality within the county;
      (2)   The state’s Board of Transportation has not promulgated or
implemented regulations controlling or regulating pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or parades; and
      (3)   The Sheriff of the county, in accordance with the standards in this
subchapter, determines it is reasonably safe for the participants of the
parade, and can reasonably accommodate the ordinary needs and requirements of
the community without destruction of property or injury to persons.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, pageant, promotion or procession of any
kind in or upon any street, sidewalk, park or other public place.
   PARADE PERMIT. A written authorization as required by this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization, formal or informal, of any kind.
   PICKETING. The activity or circumstance whereby any person participates in
any vigil, protest, observation or other action which primarily promotes or
objects to a policy or action and occurs upon those portions of the public ways
not used primarily for vehicular parking and moving traffic and which does not
constitute a parade.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-16) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986)
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any
parade unless a permit shall have been obtained from the Sheriff. No person may
conduct or otherwise participate in any parade except during the times as the
permit provides. Provided, that no permit shall be required for peaceful
picketing where otherwise lawful and in conformance with the provisions of §
93.06, so long as the application and notice requirements of this subchapter
are met. It shall be unlawful to engage in any such picket without conforming
to the notice requirements and other applicable provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions supervised by a licensed mortuary; and/or
      (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-17) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PERMIT, APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit or giving notice of intent to
picket shall file with the Sheriff on forms provided by the county and shall
provide a duplicate copy to the office of the County Manager at the same time.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a permit or notice of intent to
picket shall be filed with the Sheriff not less than five working days,
excluding weekends and holidays, before the time when it is proposed to conduct
the parade or picket. Provided, however, that a permit may be issued if filed
less than five working days before the time for commencement of the parade when
the Sheriff finds that there is no conflict in schedule with some other event
and that the time for filing is sufficient to prepare for the parade or picket
pursuant to the standards set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Contents. The application for a parade permit or the notice of intent
to picket shall be signed by the applicant, notarized and shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade or picket;
      (2)   If the parade or picket is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf
of, or by any organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads
of the organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone of the person who will be the
activity chairperson, and will specify who will be responsible for conduct of
the activity, if different from the activity chairperson;
      (4)   The date when the parade or picket is to be conducted and the hours
when the parade or picket will start and terminate;
      (5)   The proposed route to he or she traveled, the starting point and
the termination point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade or picket; the type of animals and description of the
vehicles, if applicable;
      (7)   Whether persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate;
      (8)   The location, by street, and designation, by time, of an assembly
area of the activity prior to the initiation of the parade or picket;
      (9)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of, or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file
with the Sheriff a communication, in writing, from the person proposing to hold
the parade, authorizing the person proposing to hold the parade to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (10)   Any additional information which the Sheriff shall reasonably find
necessary to a fair determination of the logistical considerations.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-18) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986)
§ 93.04 PERMIT, REQUEST FOR ISSUANCE; FINDINGS; APPEALS FROM DENIAL.
   (A)   Persons who otherwise meet the requirements for a parade permit and
who receive a parade permit are entitled to exercise their First Amendment
rights in all areas of the county. In order to better protect the participants,
and the citizens of the county, and the property of the citizens, and to
facilitate the flow of the parade, and of traffic in general, certain places in
the county have been approved as locations which the participants may use for
the parade. These locations are defined as “approved locations” and the
applicant for a parade permit shall identify specific areas within the approved
location where he or she wishes to conduct the parade. The Sheriff shall retain
the power, however, to modify, restrict, expand, alter or otherwise specify the
precise route of the parade.
   (B)   The Sheriff shall issue the parade permit if the conditions set forth
in this subchapter are met. Among the factors the Sheriff shall consider with
respect to the timing, route, date and other procedural matters of any parade
are the following:
      (1)   There is adequate provision for the safe and orderly movement of
the parade and of other traffic, pedestrian and vehicular, along or
intersecting its route. This consideration shall include, but is not limited
to, the possible existence of impeding pedestrian or traffic congestion in the
area due to the number of participants and numbers of residents living within
the area, safety concerns as to participants or residents due to the lack of
sidewalks, width of the street or similar considerations;
      (2)   Adequate provision can be made for law enforcement protection which
will not require diversion of so great a number of law enforcement officers of
the county to police properly the lines of movement and the areas contiguous
thereto so as to prevent or impede normal police protection to the remainder of
the county;
      (3)   The applicant for the parade permit has agreed to abide by the
standards set forth in this subchapter, which are necessary measures to promote
the safety and welfare of the community; and
      (4)   There appears to be no other parade, public activity or emergency
for which the Sheriff must provide security simultaneously with the proposed
parade and which would substantially impair the Sheriff’s ability to provide
security to the parade participants and the community at large. Provided
further, that any declared state of emergency, any public crisis or disaster,
rioting or similar public emergency shall suspend the power of the Sheriff to
authorize parades under this subchapter for the duration of the emergency.
   (C)   If the Sheriff determines that he or she cannot make the required
findings needed for approval of the permit, then the Sheriff shall notify the
parade applicant:
      (1)   Of his or her right to submit a modified plan for the parade which
would meet the criteria set forth herein;
      (2)   Of his or her right to appeal the findings of the Sheriff directly
to the full Board of Commissioners; or
      (3)   In writing, of the specific reasons why the proposed parade does
not permit findings by the Sheriff.
   (D)   Any applicant for a parade permit may appeal the denial, within three
days of notification of a denial of a parade permit, by delivering to the
County Manager or Clerk to the Board of Commissioners a written notice of
appeal. Upon receipt of the notice, the Chairperson of the Board shall schedule
a hearing as soon as is practicable to reconsider those unfavorable findings of
the Sheriff which resulted in denial of the permit.
   (E) If the Board of Commissioners does not concur with the relevant
unfavorable findings of the Sheriff, the Board may issue the permit under the
terms and conditions as it sees fit, consistent with this subchapter.
   (F) If the Board of Commissioners approves of any finding of the Sheriff
which would preclude issuance of the permit, then no permit shall be issued.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-19) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986)
§ 93.05 PERMIT, REVOCATION.
   The Sheriff or his or her designated agent may revoke without notice any
permit granted for a parade at any time, prior to or during the parade, if:
   (A)   Any person violates the standards for the conduct of parades set out
in this subchapter;
   (B)   Any participant violates any provision of the criminal law during the
course of the parade or in the preparation therefor;
   (C)   Unforeseen circumstances render the intended route or circumstances of
the parade unsafe or otherwise violative of the considerations for issuance of
the permit; or
   (D)   Any participant in a parade fails to comply with the formation, terms
and conditions set out in the application and permit or fails to comply with
the terms of this subchapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-20) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986)
§ 93.06 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT; PARADES AND PICKETING.
   (A)   The following requirements shall apply equally to parades and pickets.
      (1)   Firearms and weapons. No firearms or dangerous weapons of any kind
may be possessed, either exposed or concealed, by any participant in the
parade, or any person affiliated with and present at the parade, or any person
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within 500 feet of the parade.
This restriction shall not apply to law enforcement officers, park rangers,
soldiers and officers of the Armed Forces and National Guard, while within the
course and scope of their official duties and when reasonably necessary to
perform official governmental duties of the organization.
      (2)   Signs and posters. No hand-carried signs or posters transported in
any parade or picket shall be of greater density than eight-ply, .030 thickness
cardboard. No support for the sign or poster shall be of a metallic substances,
nor thicker than one inch by two inches.
      (3)   Responsibility for conduct. The person designated on the
application or notice as the activity chairperson or comparable party shall be
physically present and shall accept responsibility for compliance with any and
all relevant conditions and restrictions. This person shall carry the parade
permit or receipt of notice issued by the Sheriff on his or her person at all
times from initial assembly through final dispersement.
      (4)   Waiver. The applicant shall file with the Sheriff a waiver, signed
by the applicant, releasing and saving all officers, appointees, officials,
deputies, employees of the county and the Sheriff of the county harmless for
any claims, actions and lawsuits arising out of the conduct of the parade or
picket, excepting those injuries or damages unlawfully and proximately caused
by those persons named herein.
      (5)   Interference with activity. Every parade shall follow the route
designated and approved in the permit issued. No person shall unreasonably
hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade assembly or picket, or
with any person, vehicle or animal participation or used in a parade or picket.
      (6)   Assembly prior to beginning. At any time prior to actual
commencement of the parade or picket, the Sheriff or his or her authorized
representative may request the parade chairperson or other responsible party to
have all participants in the parade make available all signs, posters and
supports for inspection to ensure compliance with this section. Failure or
refusal to cooperate with the inspection shall void and invalidate the parade
permit until the time as the items are either made available for inspection,
removed at least 500 feet from the parade or picket route or all participants
who possess the items withdraw physically to a position at least 500 feet from
the parade or picket route. No such inspection or compliance procedure shall
alter in any manner the permitted time periods for any parade.
   (B)   The following standards shall apply to the conduct of pickets or
picketing activities.
      (1)   Picketing shall be conducted only on portions of the public ways
not otherwise regulated and not used primarily for vehicular parking or moving
traffic.
      (2)   Any signs or posters carried by any picket must not exceed 24
inches on any side and must otherwise comply with the conditions of this
section.
      (3)   Pickets must, if marching, march in single file, not abreast, and
may not march closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
Pickets not marching shall remain at least 15 feet apart.
      (4)   If pickets promoting different objectives, causes, actions or
policies desire to use a sidewalk or public right-of-way that is already used
for picketing, the Sheriff or his or her designated agents may allot a number
of pickets promoting each objective to use the sidewalk or public way on an
equitable basis, proportionate to the number of objectives being promoted.
      (5)   Pickets shall be restricted to the use of the outermost half of the
sidewalk or other public way nearest the street and shall not at any time nor
in any way obstruct, interfere with, or block persons entering or exiting from
vehicles, persons crossing streets or otherwise using the public way, the
entrance or exit to any building or access to property abutting the street or
sidewalk or pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-21) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful to violate any provision of this chapter. Violations
shall be punishable by not more than 30 days imprisonment or $50 fine, or both,
in the discretion of the presiding judge.
(1984 Code, § 2-12-22) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986)
CHAPTER 94: BEGGING, SOLICITATION, AND VEHICULAR INTERFERENCE  
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Provisions; exceptions
   
94.03   Permit application
   
94.04   Permit application fee
   
94.05   Permit issuance, denial, and appeal
   
94.06   Permit expiration and renewal
   
94.07   Permit revocation
   
94.08   Appeal of denial or revocation
   
94.09   Standards of conduct for begging and panhandling with a permit
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRESSIVELY BEG. Begging which intimidates or is intended to intimidate
another person into giving money or goods.
   BEG. To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means.
   INTIMIDATE. To intentionally say or do something, or to say or do something
that a reasonable person should know, would cause a person of ordinary
sensibilities to be fearful of bodily harm. For the purposes of this chapter,
it is not necessary to prove that the victim was actually frightened, and
neither is it necessary to prove that the behavior of the person was so violent
that it was likely to cause terror, panic or hysteria.
   OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC. To walk, stand, sit, lie,
or place an object in such a manner as to block passage by another person or
vehicle, or to require another  person or a driver of a vehicle to take evasive
action to avoid physical contact. Acts authorized pursuant to the county's
picketing and parade ordinances and regulations are exempt from the coverage of
this chapter.
   PANHANDLE. To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means in a public place.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view and includes alleys,
bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks, and
streets open to the general public, including those that serve food or drink or
provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings
and the grounds enclosing them.
   SOLICITING.  The act of asking for money or objects or value, with the
intention that the money or object of value be transferred at that time, and at
that place. SOLICITING shall include traveling from place to place taking or
offering to take orders for the sale of any goods, including but not limited to
wares, merchandise, food, or periodicals for future delivery, or for personal
services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or
money is collected in advance; and/or using or occupying any building,
location, or public right of way for the sole purpose of asking for money or
objects of value whether or not the proposed taking is in exchange for goods or
services or solely for the personal benefit of the solicitor.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.02 PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg, panhandle, or solicit for
personal benefit of the solicitor upon the streets or any other public property
in the unincorporated areas of Wake County without obtaining the written
permission of Wake County, as evidenced by obtaining a permit from the
Department of Environmental Services. A permit shall be valid for six months
from the date of issuance. In the event a holder violates any provision of this
chapter, Wake County may revoke the holder's permit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct pedestrian traffic or
vehicular traffic while engaging in any activity permitted under this section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The lawful solicitation of contributions from the public for
personal, charitable or eleemosynary purposes if in areas and a manner
otherwise permitted by law;
      (2)   The promotion or expression of views concerning political, social,
religious, and other like matters if in areas and a manner otherwise permitted
by law;
      (3)   Licensees, employees, or contractors of the Department of
Transportation or of any municipality engaged in construction, maintenance, or
in making traffic or engineering surveys;
      (4)   Distribution of newspapers on the non-traveled portion of any
street or highway except when those distribution activities impede the normal
movement of traffic on the street or highway.
   (D)   If this chapter or application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the chapter which can be given separate effect and to this end,
the provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit to engage in begging or panhandling in
Wake County shall apply in person or by mail between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday (excluding holidays) to the Department of Environmental
Services, Waverly F. Akins Wake County Office Building, 337 S. Salisbury
Street, Raleigh, North Carolina 27601, phone (919) 856-7400. The county may
establish alternate permit application locations at other county facilities.
The application shall be on a form provided by the Department, signed by the
applicant, notarized or signed in the presence of the employee accepting the
application, and shall set forth the following information:
   (A)   The name, permanent address (or if no permanent address a temporary
address in the vicinity of Wake County), a phone number (if available), and
next of kin (if available) of the applicant;
   (B)   Picture identification of the applicant, to be provided through
presentation of an original driver's license or other legally recognized form
of photo identification. If picture identification is impractical, the
applicant shall provide other documentation that reasonably establishes
identity;
   (C)   A brief description of the activity to be conducted, including if
applicable, any items or services to be sold or offered for sale;
   (D)   The age, height, weight, and other identifying information of the
person proposing to engage in the peddling or panhandling.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.04 PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   There shall be no fee for this permit application.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.05 PERMIT ISSUANCE, DENIAL, AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Procedure for application review. Within five business days of receipt
of an application, Wake County or designee (hereafter "county") shall issue a
permit unless the applicant:
      (1)   Has not submitted a completed application;
      (2)   Has submitted false information;
      (3)   Is under 18 years of age
   (B)   Possession of permit. Any person authorized by permit to engage in
begging or panhandling shall at all times that he or she is engaged in the
permitted acts carry the issued permit in his or her possession. In addition, a
permittee shall exhibit his or her permit when requested to do so by any
prospective customer or law enforcement officer. It shall be unlawful for any
person to alter or falsify a permit issued under this section; and/or for any
person other than the permittee to use a permit issued under this section.
   (C)   Denial. In the case of denial, the county's denial and the reasons for
denial shall be noted on the application, and the applicant shall be notified
that his application is denied and no permit shall be issued. Notice shall be
mailed to the applicant at the last known address shown on the application form
if given.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.06 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   Unless renewed, all permits issued pursuant to §
94.05 shall expire six months from issuance. A permit may be renewed for an
unlimited number of six months periods provided that the applicant completes a
current application and that the applicant continues to be in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.07 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   A permit issued under § 94.05 may be revoked or suspended by the
county for the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
permit application;
      (2)   Begging or panhandling in a manner inconsistent with the provisions
in the issued permit;
      (3)   Conviction of a crime or existence of any circumstance that would
have prevented issuance of the permit under this section; and/or
      (4)   Conducting begging or panhandling in such a manner as to create a
breach of the peace or endanger the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
   (B)   Upon revocation, the permit issued must immediately be surrendered to
the county.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.08 APPEAL OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   Any applicant who has been denied issuance of a permit under §
94.05 or who has had a permit revoked pursuant to §
94.07 may appeal such action by within ten days of the date of denial or
revocation delivering a written notice of appeal, specifying with particularity
the ground(s) for the appeal to the Wake County Manager, Waverly F. Akins Wake
County Office Building, 337 S. Salisbury Street, Raleigh, North Carolina 27601
(phone (919) 856-6160). Upon receipt of the notice, the County Manager shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, shall give due notice to
the appealing party and the Wake County Department of Environmental Services,
and shall render a decision within a reasonable time. The decision of the
County Manager shall constitute the county's final action.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 94.09 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR BEGGING AND PANHANDLING WITH A PERMIT.
   The following requirements shall apply to begging and panhandling with a
permit:
   (A)   Begging or panhandling shall only be permitted between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (B)   Begging or panhandling shall not be permitted within 100 feet of any
automatic teller machine or any other machine at which money is dispensed to
the public.
   (C)   Begging or panhandling shall not be permitted within 100 feet of any
financial institution open for business.
   (D)   Begging or panhandling shall not be permitted in the travelled
portion, including the shoulders and the median, of any street, highway, or
right-of-way.
   (E)   Begging or panhandling shall not be conducted in such a way to
obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit to be aggressive,
threatening, or intimidating to a person while begging or panhandling.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit to approach an
individual or individuals in groups of three or more.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit to make a false
or misleading representation in the course of soliciting, including but not
limited to representing himself or herself in any manner whatsoever as blind,
deaf, dumb, or crippled, or otherwise physically defective, including wearing
an indication of physical or mental disability when the solicitor does not
suffer the disability indicated.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful to violate any provision of this chapter.
Violations shall be punishable by not more than 30 days imprisonment or $50
fine, or both, in the discretion of the presiding judge.
   (B)   In addition to any criminal enforcement, the county or any aggrieved
person may pursue any available civil remedies deemed appropriate and
necessary.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
      
111.   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AND AMBULANCE SERVICES
      
112.   MASSAGE PARLORS AND HEALTH SALONS
CHAPTER 110: COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Franchise required; exceptions
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CATV. See COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM (hereinafter called CATV SYSTEM). A
system of antennas, coaxial cables, wires, wave guides or other conductors,
equipment or facility designed, constructed or used primarily for the
interception and receipt of television or radio signals, directly or indirectly
off the air, and the distribution or transmission of the signals by means of
cables or other similar devices to subscribers; but the term shall not include:
      (1)   Any facility that serves fewer than 50 subscribers;
      (2)   Any facility that serves only the residents of one or more
apartment dwellings under common ownership, control or management, and
commercial establishments located on the premises of the apartment house; and
      (3)   Any facility that serves only the residents of one or more
overnight residential business establishments (for example, hotels, motels and
the like) or any commercial establishments or private organizations or
associations that services only its own employees, members of the general
public upon its own premises, or its own members as the case may be.
   FRANCHISE. The permission, license, franchise or authority given hereunder
to conduct and operate a community antenna television system in the county.
   GRANTEE. The person defined to whom or to which a franchise is granted by
the Board of Commissioners under this chapter or anyone who succeeds the person
in accordance with the provisions of the franchise.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-16) (Ord. passed 1-4-1982)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   In the public interest and for the promotion of the public health, safety,
welfare and convenience, and pursuant to statutory authority contained in 153A-
121 and other applicable laws, the rules promulgated in this chapter are
adopted, which rules set forth the conditions, limitations, restrictions and
requirements under which a person may construct or cause to be constructed,
operate and maintain a community antenna television system, and engage in the
business of providing a community antenna television service in the
unincorporated areas of the county.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-17) (Ord. passed 1-4-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to regulate and license businesses, trades and the like,
see G.S. §§ 153A-134 et seq., 153A-152 et seq.
   Commerce and business, see G.S. Ch. 66
   License taxes, see G.S. §§ 105-33 et seq. 
§ 110.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Franchise required. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the construction, operation or maintenance of a CATV system in the
unincorporated areas of the county unless the person or the person for whom the
action is being taken shall have first obtained and shall currently hold a
valid franchise granted pursuant to this chapter. It shall also be unlawful for
any person to provide a CATV service in the unincorporated areas of the county
unless the person shall have first obtained and does currently hold a valid
franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. It shall not be unlawful for a CATV system to continue to
serve subscribers located outside of the corporate limits of a municipality
from lines already in place on the effective date of this chapter. Nor shall it
be unlawful to construct a dedicated trunk line (one directly serving no
customers) from outside the corporate limits of a municipality into the
corporate limits of a municipality for the purpose of serving subscribers
within the corporate limits of a municipality.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-18) (Ord. passed 1-4-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AND AMBULANCE SERVICES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Wake County Emergency Medical System
   
111.04   Ambulance service franchises
   
111.05   Enforcement; violation; sanctions
   
111.06   Territorial jurisdiction
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a Wake County Emergency
Medical Services System and for the regulation of other ambulance services in
Wake County to the extent not otherwise limited by any municipality regulating
ambulance services under G.S. § 153A-250(c).
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle that is specially
designed, constructed or modified and equipped, and is intended to be used for
and is maintained or operated for the transportation upon the streets and
highways in the state of persons who are sick, injured, wounded or otherwise
incapacitated. (See also G.S. § 131E-155(1))
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. A publicly or privately owned enterprise that is engaged
in the transportation of patients to emergency and/or nonemergency medical
facilities.
   BOARD. The Wake County Board of Commissioners.
   CONTRACT EMS AGENCY. A municipal agency or a private, nonprofit organization
which contracts with the county to provide emergency medical services as part
of the county EMS system.
   CONVALESCENT AMBULANCE SERVICE. Ambulance services provided to individuals
who are medically stable and need transportation but are unable to utilize
regular ambulatory style transportation. Such services normally include the
transportation of medically stable patients who are unable to sit up to and
from their home.
   COUNTY. Wake County, North Carolina.
   DEPARTMENT. Wake County Department of Emergency Medical Services.
   DIRECTOR. Wake County Department of Emergency Medical Services Director or
his/her designee.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES or EMS. Services rendered by emergency medical
services personnel as defined in G.S. § 131E-155(7) in responding to address an
individual’s need for immediate emergency medical care in order to prevent loss
of life or further aggravation of illness or injury. (See also G.S. § 143-507
(d))
   FIRST RESPONDER. The first dispatched medical or rescue aid to arrive at the
scene and provide emergency medical assistance to stabilize the patient while
waiting for further medical aid and/or transport.
   FRANCHISE. A permit issued by the county under the authority of G.S. § 153-
250 for the operation of an ambulance service.
   MEDICAL DIRECTOR. The physician responsible for the medical aspects of the
management of the Wake County EMS System. (See also 10A NCAC 13P .0102 (40))
   NON-EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE. Ambulance services other than those
provided by the Wake County EMS System or a licensed specialty care transport
program. Such services normally include transportation of medically stable
patients to health care facilities, medical offices and facilities and long-
term care facilities.
   OEMS. The Office of Emergency Medical Service of the North Carolina
Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Health Service Regulation.
   OEMS RULES. North Carolina Administrative Code rules codified at 10A NCAC
13P, Emergency Medical Services and Trauma Rules.
   PEER REVIEW COMMITTEE. The committee established under 10A NCAC 13P .0408
for the Wake County EMS System.
   PREMIS SYSTEM. The Pre-Hospital Management Information System established by
OEMS.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by a public or private agency involving
participation of persons in such numbers or in such circumstances where the
presence of additional emergency medical or ambulance services resources are
requested by the event sponsor or deemed necessary by the Department.
   SPECIALTY CARE TRANSPORT PROGRAM. A program designed and operated for the
provision of specialized medical care and transportation of critically ill or
injured patients between health care facilities or between such facilities and
residences or residential facilities. (See also 10A NCAC 13P .0102 (56))
   SYSTEM. The Wake County Emergency Medical System.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 111.03 WAKE COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Composition. The Wake EMS System shall consist of the Department,
contract EMS agencies, first responders, and the Wake County 911 emergency
telecommunications system, to the extent it is utilized for the provision of
emergency medical care, and the Wake County EMS Peer Review Committee.
   (B)   Duties of the Department. The Department will enforce the regulations
set forth in this chapter and will perform related function, such as:
      (1)   Establish performance standards for the EMS system;
      (2)   Negotiate and prepare agreements for approval by the Board for such
contract EMS agencies as may be necessary for effective delivery of emergency
medical services with the EMS system;
      (3)   Inspect the premises, vehicles, equipment and staff qualifications
of contract EMS agencies and franchisees to ensure compliance with this chapter
and applicable regulations;
      (4)   Maintain records related to credentials of all personnel within the
EMS system; and
      (5)   Screen and evaluate all franchise applications from ambulance
service providers and monitor franchisees, specifically:
         (a)   Make recommendations to applicants when information is
incomplete or otherwise fails to meet chapter requirements;
         (b)   Present the Department’s evaluation of franchise applications to
the Board and recommend grant or denial of franchises;
         (c)   Recommend that the County Manager suspend a franchise or impose
other sanctions under this chapter when it determines a franchisee to be in
violation of this chapter; and
         (d)   Investigate complaints from the public and agencies or health
facilities related to franchised ambulance services.
   (C)   Duties of the Director. The Director, or his/her designee, shall:
      (1)   Direct and oversee operational aspects of the EMS system;
      (2)   Report to the Board on the state of the EMS system, non-emergency
ambulance services, and convalescent ambulance services in Wake County;
      (3)   Present ambulance franchise applications to the Board;
      (4)   Promulgate policies and procedures related to the operation of the
system and declarations of emergency applicable to system, non-emergency
ambulance providers, convalescent ambulance providers, and specialty care
transport providers;
      (5)   Provide for the necessary continuing professional education for
credentialed EMS personnel in the system;
      (6)   Provide, coordinate, approve and oversee the provision of emergency
medical services for special events as designed herein;
      (7)   Promulgate operational and clinical performance measures by which
the system is evaluated and publicly reported; and
      (8)   Establish fees associated with this chapter during the county’s
regular budget process.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 111.04 AMBULANCE SERVICE FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Purpose. The best interests of the citizens of Wake County are served
by franchising non-emergency ambulance service, convalescent ambulance
services, and specialty care transport services to assure adequate and
continuing ambulance service and to preserve, protect, and promote the public
health, safety and welfare. (See also G.S. § 153A-240(a))
   (B)   Franchise required. No person may furnish, operate, conduct, maintain,
advertise or otherwise engage in or profess to be engaged in the provision of
non-emergency ambulance service, convalescent ambulance service, or specialty
care transport service within the geographic boundaries of Wake County unless
the person has been either granted a franchise to do so by the Board pursuant
to this chapter or exempted from a franchise pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   No franchise shall be required for the provision of emergency
ambulance service within Wake County. The provision of emergency advanced life
support ambulance service is the sole responsibility of the Wake County EMS
System. Therefore, no franchise shall be required for operation of ambulances
by:
         (a)   Employees of Wake County EMS;
         (b)   A contract EMS agency as defined in this chapter; or
         (c)   An entity rendering assistance to the system at the request of
the Director during a major emergency or when system resources are insufficient
resources to meet the needs of the community for EMS or non-emergency ambulance
service.
      (2)   No franchise shall be required for the provision of ambulance
transportation by a specialty care transport program operated by a hospital
that is physically located within the geographic limits of Wake County.
      (3)   The county may limit the number of ambulance franchises awarded
consistent with the needs of the community. The county expressly reserves the
right to amend, suspend, or revoke a franchise for any reason.
   (D)   Application for franchise. Application for a franchise to provide non-
emergency ambulance services, convalescent ambulance services or specialty care
transport services in Wake County shall be made upon forms prepared or
prescribed by the Department and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, who shall be the owner of
the entity and any ambulances to be operated under the franchise. If the owner
is a corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation must be
attached.
      (2)   The address of the location in Wake County where the applicant will
maintain a business office for transaction of business, including payment of
bills.
      (3)   The trade names under which the applicant does business, with a
certified copy of an assumed name certificate or articles of incorporation
stating such name.
      (4)   Training, credentials and experience of the applicant, its agents
and employees related to operation of non-emergency ambulance services and
patients care.
      (5)   A description of each ambulance owned or operated by the applicant,
including chassis manufacturer, ambulance maker, year of manufacture, vehicle
identification number, and NCOEMS permit number, if already permitted. A
franchise may not be granted to applicant who owns/leases no ambulance
vehicles.
      (6)   An inventory of all equipment that will be carried aboard each
ambulance. This equipment may not exceed the scope of practice of an EMT-Basic
except when franchised by the Board of County Commissioners of another county
to provide services in excess of the EMT-Basic scope of practice.
      (7)   The location and description of places of business in Wake County
where the applicant intends to locate ambulances.
      (8)   A description of the applicant’s capability to provide non-
emergency ambulance services on a 24-hour per day, seven-day per week basis.
      (9)   An official criminal record of the applicant if a sole
proprietorship, of any partners if the applicant is a partnership, or any
officers, directors, or managers of the applicant if a corporation or other
business entity.
      (10)   A statement that the applicant will not discriminate as to any
person with regard to race, color, creed, national origin, or gender.
      (11)   An audited financial statement, in such form and detail as the
county may require.
      (12)   A certificate of insurance currently in force, issued by an
insurance company licensed to provide insurance in the State of North Carolina
evidencing the following insurance coverage:
         (a)   Vehicle insurance. For every ambulance owned or operated by the
applicant providing for the payment of damages in the sum of $1,000,000 for
injury to or death of individuals in accidents resulting from any cause for
which the owner of said vehicle would be liability on account of liability
imposed on him/her by law, regardless of whether the ambulance was being driven
by the owner, his/her agent, or any other person, and in the sum of $1,000,000
for the loss of or damage to the property of another, including personal
property.
         (b)   General comprehensive liability insurance. A certificate of
insurance currently in force and effect, issued by an insurance company
licensed to provide insurance in the State of North Carolina, providing for the
payment of damages in the sum of $3,000,000 for general (non-vehicular)
liability including medical malpractice.
      (13)   A notarized statement certifying that the applicant is not
debarred from receiving Medicare or Medicaid programs, nor currently the
subject of debarment proceedings, and is and will remain in compliance with
this chapter, OEMS rules and all applicable state and federal statutes and
regulations.
      (14)   A non-refundable application fee, to defray the costs associated
with processing the application, conducting investigations, providing such
public notice as may be required by law, and ongoing oversight.
   (E)   Departmental review. Upon receipt of a complete application for a
franchise, the Department will:
      (1)   Review the application for completeness and compliance with this
chapter;
      (2)   Cause such investigation to be made as the Department deems
necessary;
      (3)   Determine whether the applicant meets the requirements for the
award of a franchise under this chapter;
      (4)   Make a recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners on
whether to grant the application for franchise; and
      (5)   Schedule a public hearing before the Board after providing all
required public notices.
   (F)   Board action. The Board may grant a franchise upon finding the
following fact:
      (1)   The public will be served by granting the applicant a franchise,
consistent with the policy set forth in §
111.01 of this chapter;
      (2)   The application is accurate, complete and correct;
      (3)   The applicant has produced adequate evidence of its ability to
provide adequate and responsible non-emergency or convalescent ambulance
service, and evidence that no owner, operator, agent or employee has been
debarred from the Medicare or Medicaid program, or any other public benefit
program of the United States or any other state; and
      (4)   The applicant holds all necessary licenses and permits from OEMS or
will be fully qualified to obtain all necessary licenses and permits upon the
award of the franchise.
   (G)   Conditions of franchises granted by the Board.
      (1)   A franchise issued by the county shall be valid for the term
specified by the Board, not to exceed five years.
      (2)   A franchise may be extended for additional term of the same number
of years for which it was initially granted upon written application,
submission of a renewal fee, and certification that the applicant has been
continuously in compliance with all county and OEMS requirements and retains
all necessary licenses and permits from OEMS.
      (3)   No franchise may be sold, assigned, or transferred to or in any way
vest in any person other than the applicant to whom the franchise is granted.
      (4)   The applicant must maintain continuous insurance coverage in the
amounts specified in division (D) above and submit new insurance certificates
when coverage is changed or renewed.
      (5)   Any change of ownership of a franchised ambulance service,
including the acquisition of more than 10% of the common stock of any
corporation by an individual not named as an owner in the original application,
shall be considered a material change necessitating a new franchise application
and issuance of a new franchise.
   (H)   Administrative requirements for franchised ambulance providers. Each
franchised ambulance provider must:
      (1)   Affiliate with the Wake County EMS system.
      (2)   Submit data to the PreMIS system, CIS, and the Department, as
required by OEMS or the Department.
      (3)   Permit representatives of the Department to inspect vehicles,
facilities, personnel, and records at times and in locations specified by the
Department.
      (4)   Employ, contract, or otherwise obtain the services of a medical
director, as required by OEMS rules. The county’s Medical Director shall not
serve as the medical director for any franchised ambulance service.
      (5)   Immediately transfer to the appropriate 9-1-1 center any call which
reasonably appears to require emergency medical services or advanced life
support services, including but not limited to Medical Priority Dispatch System
classifications of CHARLIE, DELTA, or ECHO.
      (6)   Submit a plan for delivery of the following services to the
Department, not later than June 30 of each year:
         (a)   Medical direction of the franchised service and the development
and enforcement of medical protocols consistent with OEMS rules and Wake County
EMS System protocols.
         (b)   Receiving calls and dispatching ambulances, including the
criteria for screening calls, identifying calls not appropriate for their
franchised level of response, and referring those calls to the appropriate 9-1-
1 center.
         (c)   Continuing education for every level of EMS personnel provided
by the franchisee.
         (d)   Employee background checks to assure that personnel employed in
the delivery of franchised ambulance services have acceptable criminal and
driving records.
         (e)   Radio communications between ambulances, dispatch points and
hospitals, as described in OEMS rules. Cellular telephone or other common
carrier services may only be used as secondary communications for non-emergency
ambulance service providers. The franchise shall provide county with a copy of
the license(s) issued by the Federal Communications Commission authorized the
use of license frequencies.
         (f)   Telephone communications, including at least one land-line
telephone which shall provide 24-hour per day access to ambulance dispatch
service.
         (g)   Participation in the franchised ambulance rotation program
operated by the Department for those patients who access the 9-1-1 system, are
assessed by EMS system personnel, and are determined to require ambulance
transportation but not to require the services of an emergency ambulance. The
Director shall promulgate standards for the franchised ambulance rotation
program. A franchised ambulance service operated by a hospital system for the
sole purposes of moving patients to and from its facilities is not required to
participate in the franchised ambulance rotation program; however the non-
participating sendee will not be permitted to pick up patients within Wake
County from any but its own facilities.
         (h)   Assuring that vehicles, personnel, equipment, and operating
procedures are in compliance with applicable OEMS rules and statutes.
   (I)   Operating requirements for non-emergency ambulance services.
      (1)   Franchisees shall maintain all licenses and permits required by
OEMS, and shall at all times be in compliance with OEMS rules.
      (2)   Except when providing emergency services to the EMS system during a
period of major emergency, as directed by the Director, or in other situations
where the life or health of a patient so require, non-emergency ambulance
providers shall not operate ambulances vehicles using emergency warning
equipment (red lights and sirens) in Wake County.
      (3)   In any circumstances where emergency warning lights and sirens are
used by a non-emergency ambulance provider (except a specialty care transport
provider) without prior authorization by the Director, the manager or owner of
the franchise shall file a report with the Director disclosing the date, time,
location, and justification for use of emergency warning equipment.
Inappropriate use of emergency warning equipment by non-emergency ambulance
providers may constitute grounds for sanctions or revocation of the franchise.
This requirement does not apply to ambulance transports originating outside of
Wake County.
      (4)   The Director may promulgate operational performance standards for
non- emergency and convalescent ambulance services, which apply to all
franchisees.
      (5)   Upon the Director’s declaration of major emergency, the Director
may restrict or suspend non-emergency and convalescent ambulance operations in
order to make ambulances available to the system. The Director shall promulgate
and publish major emergency procedures, which will include reasonable
compensation to nonemergency and convalescent ambulance services for such
services provided to the county.
      (6)   Franchisees must make its records, premises and equipment available
for inspection by the Director during normal business hours after reasonable
notice to the franchisee, in order to insure compliance with this chapter and
any franchise granted hereunder. Franchisee must permit the Director to inspect
any ambulance and interview the personnel assigned thereto at any time and
without prior notice except while the ambulance is actually transporting a
patient.
      (7)   Reporting requirements.
         (a)   Annually, at least 45 days prior to the anniversary date of the
issuance of the franchise, the franchisee shall report to the county in writing
and under oath its compliance with this chapter, OEMS rules, and applicable
state statutes during the previous year.
         (b)   Monthly, franchisees must submit to the Director a report that
details the following information concerning the prior month of operation:
            1.   Number of requests for ambulance transportation;
            2.   Number of patients transported;
            3.   For requests for service scheduled in advance, the percentage
of on-time arrivals and the average delay for those calls for the ambulance did
not arrive on time;
            4.   For requests for service not scheduled in advance (either
immediate or as soon as possible), the 90th percentile interval between the
time of the requests and the arrival of the ambulance at the curb side of the
building for which the request was made;
            5.   Written details of any critical vehicle failure (failure of a
vehicle after dispatch to a request for service or while transporting a
patient;
            6.   Written details of any vehicle collision after dispatch to a
request for service or while transporting a patient; and
            7.   Number of calls to the service deemed to be emergent and
referred to a 9-1-1 center for disposition.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 111.05 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION; SANCTIONS.
   (A)   The Department shall monitor and initiate enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Administrative remedies. In the event of a violation of any section of
this chapter or of any term or condition of a franchise issued hereunder, the
violator may be assessed a penalty by the County Manager in the amount of $500
or for each violation. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate violation. Notice of assessment of penalties may be appealed to the
County Manager within 20 days of receipt of the notice, and the County Manager
will schedule and hold a hearing on the assessment. Penalties may be recovered
in the nature of a debt and the county may suspend or revoke a franchise, if
the violator does not pay the penalty within ten days after being notified of
the hearing decision. (See also G.S. § 153A-123(c) and (g))
   (C)   Civil actions. The county may seek an injunction, abatement order, or
other appropriate equitable or legal remedy to insure compliance with this
chapter. (See also G.S. § 153A-123(d))
   (D)   Criminal penalties. Nothing herein shall prevent the county from
initiating criminal action against any person, firm or corporation for
violating any provision of this chapter or any term or condition of a franchise
granted hereunder as provided in G.S. § 14-4. (See also G.S. § 153A-123(b))
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 111.06 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas within the
geographic boundaries of Wake County, including areas within a municipality
unless the municipality’s area has been specifically excluded by the Board.
(See also G.S. § 153-250(c))
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 112: MASSAGE PARLORS AND HEALTH SALONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose of chapter
   
112.03   Licensee to file list of employees with Sheriff
   
112.04   Records
   
112.05   Hours of operation
   
112.06   Applicability to minors
License
   
112.20   Application; contents
   
112.21   Qualifications
   
112.22   Revocation
   
112.23   Multiple locations; term; personal privilege
   
112.24   License required
   
112.25   Contents; posting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provisions of this chapter, to filing an
application for a license.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator of any
establishment which carries on or practices the acts or services set forth in §
112.02, whether the principal business of the establishment or incidental to
the principal business.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-61) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   To protect the general health, safety, welfare and morals, the following
licensing provisions specified in this chapter are ordained for the operation
or carrying on of the businesses, trade or professions commonly known as
massage parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, clubs or
establishments or similar establishments wherein physical culture, massage,
hydrotherapy or other physical treatment of the human body is carried on or
practiced and for the regulation of any other business which carries on the
acts or practices incidental to the principal business. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to a regularly established and licensed hospital,
sanitarium, nursing home or medical clinic, nor to the office or clinic
operated by a duly-qualified and licensed medical practitioner or chiropractor
in connection with his or her practice of medicine or chiropractic if the
office or clinic is regularly used by the medical practitioners or chiropractor
as his or her principal location for his or her practice of medicine or
chiropractic.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-62) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 112.03 LICENSEE TO FILE LIST OF EMPLOYEES WITH SHERIFF.
   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license under this chapter to
file with the Sheriff the names of all employees, their home addresses, home
telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees
with the names of new employees must be filed with the Sheriff seven days from
the date of any such change. Failure to make the filing or change in prior
filing shall constitute grounds for revocation of license.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-63) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of any person granted a license hereunder to maintain
correct and accurate records of the names and addresses of the persons
receiving treatment at the establishment, the type of treatment administered
and the name of the person of the establishment administering the treatment.
These records shall be subject to inspection by the Sheriff or his or her
deputies during hours of operation of any of the businesses licensed by this
chapter. Failure to maintain records required by this section shall constitute
grounds for revocation of license.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-64) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No licensee shall engage in a business regulated under this chapter or
permit any employee to engage in the business except within and between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-65) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 APPLICABILITY TO MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to patronize
any massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder unless the
person carries with him or her at the time of the patronage a written order
directing the treatment to be given signed by a regularly licensed physician.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of the massage parlor or similar
establishment licensed hereunder to determine the age of the person patronizing
the establishment.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the
license of the establishment.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-66) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSE
§ 112.20 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business, or the operation, or
carrying on any of the businesses, trades or professions mentioned in §
112.02 shall, before engaging in the business, trade, profession, occupation or
calling, file an application for a license addressed to the Tax Collector. The
application shall be in writing and shall set forth the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant; if the applicant be a
corporation, the address or addresses of the corporation; and
      (2)   Qualifications must be plainly stated and must be submitted
together with required exhibits attached to the application.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application for a county license prescribed by
this chapter, the Tax Collector, if satisfied as to the qualifications of the
applicant, as set forth in §
112.21, under the provisions of this section, and if satisfied as to the
correctness of the information contained in the application, shall issue a
county license to the applicant to engage in the business, trade, employment or
profession in the name of and at the place set out in the application. If the
Tax Collector shall not be satisfied as to the qualifications of the applicant
or the correctness of the information, or of his or her good moral character,
or the good moral character of the person designated by the applying
corporation as the operator or manager, if the applicant is a corporation, he
or she shall not issue the license. If the license is denied, the applicant may
appeal to the Board of Commissioners, where the applicant shall be given an
opportunity to appear and be heard. Upon appeal, the Board of Commissioners may
refuse to authorize the issuance of a license unless the Board of Commissioners
shall be satisfied that the applicant or the proposed manager is a person of
good moral character and a fit and proper person to conduct the business.
   (C)   No person shall willfully make any false statement in an application
for a license under any section of this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-76) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 QUALIFICATIONS.
   An applicant under this chapter, prior to making application for a license,
must have the following qualifications.
   (A)   The applicant may be male or female and shall be required to provide
the names of two references who will attest to the moral character of the
applicant.
   (B)   The applicant must furnish a health certificate of a medical doctor
which shall accompany the application as an exhibit. Should the applicant be a
corporation, it shall furnish the certificate to cover its agents or employees
who will be actually working under the license; and employees who begin work
following the original issuance of license under this chapter shall likewise
obtain the health certificates, which certificates shall be furnished to the
office of the Sheriff.
   (C)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall designate a
person as operator or manager. The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section shall be applicable to the person so designated. If the application is
allowed, the license shall be granted in the name of the corporation,
specifically naming the person designated as operator or manager. The person
shall be responsible under the provisions of this chapter as though he or she
were the licensee.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-77) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 112.22 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Recommendation by Sheriff. Whenever the Sheriff shall have good cause
to believe there exist grounds for revocation of any license acquired under
this chapter, he or she shall submit a written recommendation of revocation to
the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners and by registered mail shall
forward a copy of his or her recommendation to the licensee. The recommendation
shall state the specific grounds for the revocation of the license.
   (B)   Causes. Cause of revocation of the license shall exist for the failure
of the licensee to perform any duty required by this chapter, for violation of
any provision of this chapter, or for conviction of the licensee of any crime
involving moral turpitude. If any licensee or employee of the licensee shall,
in the course of the business regulated hereunder, attempt through a physical
act performed upon the person of another, to sexually arouse or stimulate the
person, the attempt shall also constitute grounds for revocation of the
license. Intentional touching of the genitals of a person being massaged shall
constitute prima facie evidence of an attempted sexual arousal or stimulation.
Grounds shall also exist if, by reason of the nature or the manner or place in
which the licensee conducts his or her business a nuisance, menace to good
order, public health, safety or morals is created.
   (C)   Defense. Prior to revocation of any license by the Board of
Commissioners, the licensee shall be given an opportunity to appear and be
heard, to rebut any evidence against him or her, and to present any evidence or
witnesses in his or her defense.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-78) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 112.23 MULTIPLE LOCATIONS; TERM; PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   (A)   Separate license required for each location. If the business to be
licensed pursuant to this chapter is carried on at two or more separate places,
a separate county license for each place or location of the business shall be
required.
   (B)   Term. Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for 12
months and shall expire on December 31 of each year. If a person begins any
business or the exercise of any privilege requiring a license under this
chapter after January 1 of any year, the license shall be effective for only
the remainder of that year.
   (C)   License constitutes personal privilege. The county license issued
under this chapter shall be and constitute a personal privilege to conduct the
profession or business named in the license and shall not be transferable to
any other person, and shall be construed to limit the person named in the
license to conducting the profession or business and exercising the privilege
named in the license to the location specified in the license. If the holder of
a license under this chapter moves the business for which a license has been
obtained to another location, a new license may be issued to the licensee at a
new location, for the balance of the license year, upon surrender of the
original license for cancellation.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-79) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 112.24 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   When a license is required by this section on any business or trade,
it shall be unlawful for any person without a license to engage in the business
or trade.
   (B)   If any person shall continue the business or trade after the
expiration of a license required by this chapter without obtaining a license,
he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-80) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.25 CONTENTS; POSTING.
   (A)   Every license issued shall show on the face thereof the name of the
licensee, the nature of the business, the location thereof and the time it was
issued.
   (B)   Licenses shall be kept posted where business is carried on. No person
shall engage in any business or trade for which the issuance of a license
pursuant to this chapter is required without having the license posted
conspicuously at the place where the business or trade is carried on.
   (C)   Any person failing, neglecting or refusing to have the county license
required under this chapter posted conspicuously at the place of business for
which the license was obtained shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1984 Code, § 2-7-81) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: FIREARMS
Section
Discharge of Firearms
   
130.01   On public streets or highways
   
130.02   Within 300 yards of a dwelling
   
130.03   Within 300 yards of a public building
   
130.04   Within 300 yards of livestock
   
130.05   Firearm discharge standards
   
130.06   Exceptions
   
130.07   Penalty
DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
§ 130.01 ON PUBLIC STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm on or from the
traveled portion of any public street or highway. For purposes of this
subchapter, FIREARM is defined as any gun, rifle, pistol or other barreled
weapon capable of discharging projectiles such as shot, bullets, pellets or
other missiles at a muzzle velocity of at least 600 feet per second and
actually loaded with such a projectile.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-16) (Ord. passed 5-4-1981; Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed
11-9-2022)
§ 130.02 WITHIN 300 YARDS OF A DWELLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within
300 yards of any dwelling owned and/or occupied by another unless the person
first procures the written permission of the owner or occupant of the dwelling.
   (B)   (1)   The written permission shall be executed on a form provided by
Wake County. It shall be dated and valid for no longer than one year after its
issuance.
      (2)   The permission must be displayed upon the request of any law
enforcement officer with authority to enforce this subchapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-17) (Ord. passed 5-4-1981; Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed
11-9-2022)
§ 130.03 WITHIN 300 YARDS OF A PUBLIC BUILDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within 300
yards of any building reasonably likely to be occupied, including, but not
limited to, any school, church, warehouse or any playground or park.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-18) (Ord. passed 5-4-1981; Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed
11-9-2022)
§ 130.04 WITHIN 300 YARDS OF LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within 300
yards of any domestic livestock belonging to others unless the person first
procures the permission of the owner of the domestic livestock.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-19) (Ord. passed 5-4-1981; Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed
11-9-2022)
§ 130.05 FIREARM DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm:
   (A)   In such a way as will, or is likely to, result in the load thereof
leaving the property upon which the firearm is lawfully discharged.
   (B)   Without a backstop that will adequately contain the projectile to the
property upon which it was discharged. The backstop shall be based on
specifications promulgated by the National Rifle Association or any equivalent
nationally recognized firearms safety organization for the type and caliber of
firearms being fired. At a minimum, the backstop shall be composed of a berm,
dike, or other physical barrier that is located behind and beyond the target,
that has a minimum thickness of two feet, that extends a minimum of four feet
above the target, and that is constructed of a material that will allow the
projectile to penetrate the backstop, berm, dike, or other physical barrier but
not pass all the way through it.
   (C)   At any object other than a fixed, stationary target at which the
firearm is specifically aimed, directed and fired.
   (D)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-20) (Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed 11-9-2022)
§ 130.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Commercial facilities. No provision in this subchapter shall interfere
with the operation of recognized or approved rifle or pistol ranges, skeet or
trapshooting facilities or "turkey shoots", when conducted in compliance with
Chapter 92 of this code.
   (B)   Miscellaneous exceptions. None of the provisions of this subchapter
shall apply to law enforcement officers or members of the armed forces acting
in the line of duty; to the shooting or killing of any dangerous or destructive
animal or reptile when necessary to protect life or property; to the lawful
taking of birds or animals pursuant to G.S. Chapter 113, Subchapter IV, as it
is from time to time amended, or pursuant to a lawfully issued federal permit;
to the use of firearms for defense of person or property; or the use of
firearms pursuant to lawful directions of law enforcement officers.
(1984 Code, § 2-9-21) (Ord. passed 5-4-1981; Ord. passed 6-4-2001; Ord. passed
11-9-2022)
§ 130.07 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter of this code of ordinances shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the provisions of this chapter of this
code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      WAKE_COUNTY_UNIFIED_DEVELOPMENT_ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Generally
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Definitions
   
150.003   Standards followed in the formulation and adoption of chapter
   
150.004   Purpose
   
150.005   Regulatory provisions; codes adopted by reference
   
150.006   Amendments to codes
   
150.007   Scope
Building Inspections Divisions Generally
   
150.020   Created
   
150.021   Director
   
150.022   Staff
   
150.023   Authorization and identification
   
150.024   Restrictions on employees
   
150.025   General authority
Buildings
   
150.035   Duties and reports
   
150.036   Scope, G.S. § 143-138(B) and (E)
   
150.037   Discretionary authority; appeal
   
150.038   Exemptions
   
150.039   Permits required
   
150.040   Permits, exemptions
   
150.041   Permits not required
   
150.042   Authorized applicants for permit
   
150.043   Permits and inspections
   
150.044   Disposition of plans
   
150.045   Validity
   
150.046   Permit fees
   
150.047   Payment of fees
   
150.048   Disposition of permit issued
   
150.049   Expirations
   
150.050   Inspections
   
150.051   Certificate of compliance
   
150.052   Liability for damages
 
   
150.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Building code council and building code, see G.S. §§ 143-136 et seq.
   Building inspection, see G.S. §§ 160D-1101 et seq.
   Code officials qualification board, see G.S. §§ 143-151.8 et seq.
   Contractors, see G.S. Ch. 87
   Manufactured housing and mobile homes, see G.S. §§ 143-143.8 et seq.
   Property taxes for building inspection, see G.S. §§ 153A-149(26)
   Public building contracts, see G.S. §§ 143-128 et seq.
GENERALLY
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be and is referred to and cited as “The Building Code of
Administrative and Technical Ordinances of Wake County, North Carolina”.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-16) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
§ 150.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Community Services Department.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Building Inspections Division.
   DIVISION. The Building Inspections Division.
   FARM BUILDING. All farm structures not used as dwellings.
   INSPECTOR. Building Inspections Director or his or her authorized
representative.
   OTHER DEFINITIONS. Other definitions shall be as contained in all referenced
codes, ordinances and regulations constituting this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-19) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.003 STANDARDS FOLLOWED IN THE FORMULATION AND ADOPTION OF CHAPTER.
   All regulations contained in this chapter have a reasonable and substantial
connection with the public health, safety, morals or general welfare; and their
provisions shall be construed liberally to those ends. Requirements of this
chapter shall conform to good engineering practice, as evidenced generally by
the requirements of the National Building Code of the American Insurance
Association, the Standard Building Code of the Southern Building Code Congress
International, Inc., the Uniform Building Code of the International Conference
of Building Officials, the Basic Building Code of the Building Officials and
Code Administrators International, Inc., the National Electrical Code, the
Building Exits Code of the National Fire Protection Association, the American
Standards Safety Code for Elevators, Dumbwaiters and Escalators, the Boiler
Code of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Standards of the American
Insurance Association for the Installation of Gas Piping and Gas Appliances in
Buildings and the standards promulgated by the American Standards Association,
Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., and similar national agencies engaged in
research concerning strength of materials, safe design and other factors
bearing upon health and safety.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-19) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
§ 150.004 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to preserve and promote the public health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants within the jurisdiction of the county and of the
public generally by enforcement and control through regulations adopted and/or
endorsed by the state’s Building Code Council and the state’s Insurance
Department, and adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-20) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Commissioners, see G.S. §§ 153A-25 et seq.
   Building Code Council, see G.S. §§ 143-136 et seq.
   Insurance Department, see G.S. §§ 58-4 et seq.
§ 150.005 REGULATORY PROVISIONS; CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   This chapter as constituted and resolutely adopted by vote of the
Board of Commissioners contains, in addition to administrative and general
regulations, the most current editions of the following codes by reference and
as hereinafter modified:
      (1)   The North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted and amended by
the state’s Building Code Council in accordance with G.S. §§ 143-136 et seq.;
      (2)   The North Carolina State Residential Code as adopted and amended by
the state’s Building Code Council in accordance with G.S. §§ 143-136 et seq.;
      (3)   The National Electrical Code, as amended;
      (4)   The North Carolina State Plumbing Code (Volume H, North Carolina
State Building Code), as amended;
      (5)   The North Carolina State Mechanical Code (Volume III, North
Carolina State Building Code), as amended; and
      (6)   The North Carolina State Energy Conservation Code, as adopted by
the state’s Building Code Council; and
      (7)   The North Carolina State Administrative Code and Policies, as
amended and adopted by the state’s Building Code Council.
   (B)   This chapter and the codes herein adopted by reference shall be
applicable to all buildings, structures, utilities and the like, as provided in
§ 150.007 and to one- and two-family residences and outbuildings used in
connection therewith.
   (C) Copies of this chapter and all referenced codes and subsequent
amendments thereto shall be filed with the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners
and in the Division.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-21) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. 6-18-1990; Ord. passed 4-19-
2021)
Statutory reference:   
   County inspection division, see G.S. §§ 160D-1101 et seq.
§ 150.006 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this chapter
which are from time to time adopted and published shall become effective upon
adoption by the agencies or organizations referred to herein.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-22) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.007 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes and ordinance
adopted herein shall be applicable to all buildings, structures and utilities,
including dwellings and outbuildings used in connection therewith, and shall
extend to and govern the following:
   (A)   Location, design, materials, equipment, construction, reconstruction,
additions, alterations, repair, demolition, removal, occupancy or maintenance
of any building, structure or utility hereafter erected; and
   (B)   Reconstruction, equipment, alteration, addition, repair, moving,
change of occupancy or maintenance of any existing building, structure or
utility heretofore erected.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-23) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
BUILDING INSPECTIONS DIVISIONS GENERALLY
§ 150.020 CREATED.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes, under the County Manager, a
County Building Inspections Division. The County Manager shall provide the
location of this Division in the county’s organizational structure.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-36) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990)
§ 150.021 DIRECTOR.
   The Division shall be administered by a Director, duly appointed in a manner
prescribed in the county personnel regulations, whose powers and duties shall
be to enforce any county building regulations adopted under G.S. § 160D-1104;
to collect inspection fees determined by the Board of Commissioners; and to
carry out the other duties as may be assigned.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-37) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.022 STAFF.
   The Division shall be staffed with persons properly qualified under G.S. §
160D-1103 in specific phases of the building trades and for related assignments
and by the other persons as are necessary to perform secretarial and clerical
duties, all appointed in a manner as prescribed in the county personnel
regulations.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-38) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.023 AUTHORIZATION AND IDENTIFICATION.
   The Director shall authorize and assign staff members of the Division to
carry out the duties and exercise the power as may be delegated to him or her
by this Division, except in no case shall the Director assign any duties to any
inspectors contrary to G.S. § 160D-1103. Each inspector in the Division shall
be provided by the county with an identification card bearing information
necessary to properly identify the bearer. The identification card shall bear
the authority of this section, shall be carried upon the person identified and
shall be used when necessary to identify the persons properly while performing
his or her official duties.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-39) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.024 RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYEES.
   No employee of the Division shall be financially interested in the
furnishing of labor, material or appliances, or the making of plans or of
specifications therefor, for any activity governed by the Division unless he or
she is the owner of the activity. No employee of the Division shall engage in
any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interests of
this Division.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-40) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990)
§ 150.025 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Inspections. The Director shall have the authority to conduct, or
cause to be conducted, inspections, investigations and/or surveys to determine
compliance or noncompliance of all buildings, structures, utilities and/or uses
within the scope of this Division.
   (B)   Right of entry. Incidental to inspections, investigations and/or
surveys under the authority of this Division, the Director or his or her
authorized representative may at reasonable hours enter into and upon and cause
any land, building, structure or utility to be inspected and examined. A
failure or refusal to permit the entry and inspection after the issuance, by
the Director, of a proper request therefor, shall constitute a violation of
this Division. Additionally, the right to entry and inspection may be enforced
by application to and proper order from a court of proper jurisdiction pursuant
to G.S. §§ 15-27.2.
   (C)   Stop orders.
      (1)   Wherever any work is being performed contrary to the provisions of
this section, the Director may order the work stopped by notice pursuant to
G.S. §§ 160D-404.
      (2)   After due stop order notice has been given, it shall be unlawful
for any person to proceed with the work until the corrective work required to
be performed by the notice is complied with, within a reasonable specified
time.
   (D)   Unsafe buildings, structures, utilities or land uses.
      (1)   The Director shall have authority to cause existing conditions in
any building, structure, utility or land use, which has determined through due
process to be unsafe, to corrected in the reasonable manner to remove the
hazard caused by the condition.
      (2)   After the owner or his or her agent has been duly notified, failure
of the owner or his or her agent to make the necessary corrections as may be
prescribed shall constitute a violation of this section.
      (3)   In the case where a utility has been determined and declared by the
Director to be unsafe, the Director shall have authority to order the utility
disconnected or its use discontinued until the hazard caused thereby is
corrected.
      (4)   In the event that it is discovered that construction performed
under a permit issued under this section is suspected to have State Building
Code violations following the issuance of certificate of compliance, the
following procedure shall be adhered to by the Director.
         (a)   The complainant shall submit to the Director the following
information:
            1.   Name of complainant;
            2.   Location of complaint;
            3.   Building permit number; and
            4.   Suspected code violations.
         (b)   The Director shall conduct an investigation to determine if
there are in fact State Building Code violations involved. The investigation
shall be conducted using the Building Code and standard inspection practices
and procedures in effect at the time the building permit was issued.
         (c)   If code violations are found, the Director shall contact the
contractor and owner to which the permit was issued and direct them to correct
the State Building Code violations pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-1118 and 160D-1121.
         (d)   If there is a disagreement between the contractor and the
Director as to what constitutes a Building Code violation, the Director shall
request that the state’s Department of Insurance review the specific code items
and render a written opinion to the Director.
         (e)   If the state’s Department of Insurance determines that these
items are not State Building Code violations, the investigation shall be
discontinued.
         (f)   If the state’s Department of Insurance determines that in fact
these items are code violations, the contractor again will be directed to
correct those identified items. If the contractor refuses to arrange to correct
the items, within 30 days, the Director shall file with the appropriate State
Licensing Board a complaint against the contractor requesting that appropriate
disciplinary actions be taken.
   (E)   Posting of signs. When necessary to preserve the public health, safety
and/or welfare of the citizens of the county, the Director may post signs which
shall prohibit entry into unsafe buildings or structures; however, with
permission of the Director, it shall be lawful to enter in or upon a building
or structure for the purpose of effecting any required repairs, rehabilitation
or demolition.
   (F)   Service of notice.
      (1)   Service of any notice may be by personal service as defined by the
state’s Rules of Civil Procedures, or may be made by registered mail, return
receipt requested; and the service shall be deemed complete upon delivery.
      (2)   In the event the address of a person to be notified is unknown or
the receipt of a notice which has been mailed is returned unsigned, the notice
may be served pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D- 1121.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-41) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 11-26-1990; Ord.
passed 4-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Rules of civil procedure, see G.S. § 1A-1
BUILDINGS
§ 150.035 DUTIES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Inspector to enforce all state and
local laws pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-1104.
   (B)   Reports. The Director shall make a monthly report of all inspections.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-56) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 11-26-1990; Ord.
passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.036 SCOPE, G.S. § 143-138(B) AND (E).
   (A)   State Building Code. The State Building Code as adopted by the State
Building Code Council under G.S. Chapter 143, § 143-138, Article 9, is
recognized as and shall constitute the building ordinance in the county
applicable to all buildings covered thereby and as herein modified.
   (B)   North Carolina Residential Code. The North Carolina Residential Code,
adopted by the State of North Carolina, is recognized as and shall constitute
the building ordinance in the county applicable to one- and two-family
residences and outbuildings connected therewith.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-57) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.037 DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY; APPEAL.
   Should any controversy arise relating to the interpretation of any section
of the state’s Building Code, or any other provisions of this chapter, the
installer may exercise his or her rights of appeal as prescribed in the state’s
Building Code.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-58) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
§ 150.038 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to regulate farm buildings, as
defined in §
150.002.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-59) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.039 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall locate, erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair or
relocate any building, structure or utility or change the type occupancy
thereof, or establish or change any land use or cause same to be performed
without first having obtained a permit from the Division for the specific work
to be performed or use to be established.
   (B)   No person shall install, replace or relocate any electrical, plumbing,
heating, ventilating or cooling utility, material, appliances or equipment
without first having obtained a permit from the Division for the specific work
to be performed.
   (C)   The other permits required by any other county or state agency shall
be obtained.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-60) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.040 PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS.
   Permits shall not be required for certain repairs, replacements,
alterations, or installations pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-1110.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-61) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.041 PERMITS NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Bona fide farms. A building permit shall not be required for bona fide
farm buildings (not including farm dwellings) or uses which have been exempted
in §
150.038.
   (B)   Public utility. A permit shall not be required of a public utility
duly franchised in the county for the repair and maintenance of the equipment
and facilities used in the distribution of the utility.
   (C)   Signs. A permit shall not be required for the painting, repainting or
cleaning of an existing advertising structure, or the changing of the
advertising copy or the message unless a structural change is to be made. Other
exemptions for signs are as prescribed in the County’s Unified Development
Ordinance.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-62) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 150.042 AUTHORIZED APPLICANTS FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Only persons duly licensed under the state statutes or their
authorized representative or persons otherwise exempted under the statutes may
apply for a permit.
   (B)   Any application filed for a permit or a permit issued not in
compliance with these requirements will be deemed to be improper and shall be
determined invalid.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-63) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Contractors, see G.S. Ch. 87
§ 150.043 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The term INSPECTION, as referred to in this section, shall mean the
necessary scrutiny and checking of regulated work to determine where or not the
installation has been made in conformity with state and local laws and building
codes governing the construction, addition to, installation, repair and
renovation of building, plumbing, mechanical and electrical systems. Codes used
will be the North Carolina Codes current at the time of issuance of the permit.
The inspector shall have and use the necessary instruments, tools and
documentation to inspect all permitted work.
   (B)   Required inspections shall be scheduled as set forth in §
150.050 or as specifically dictated by the work being performed on the
particular permitted project. It shall be the duty of the permit holder, owner,
or contractor to schedule the inspections when the work is ready for inspection
and to provide access and means for the inspections. No work may be covered or
concealed until approval is issued by the inspector.
   (C)   Additional inspection, or inspection trips, made necessary through the
failure of any contractor or property owner to give specific location of work
to be inspected, or failure to properly perform work, or to otherwise create
conditions making the additional inspection or trips necessary, are hereby
designated extra code enforcement inspections or re-inspections. For each extra
code enforcement inspection or re-inspection, a fee fixed from time to time by
the Board of Commissioners shall be charged against and paid by the contractor
or property owner to the county.
   (D)   Work may not proceed beyond the point of inspection until an approval
is granted by the code enforcement official. Upon inspection, the inspection
official shall make the inspection and indicate if the work complies with all
current building codes or if deficiencies are found, shall provide a written
list of such. No work may proceed until the deficiencies are corrected,
inspected and approved.
   (E)   Independent inspections by a North Carolina registered design
professional may be authorized by the code officials under the conditions and
guidelines of Chapter 1 of the North Carolina Administrative Code and G.S. §
160D-1106.
   (F)   Persons desiring to appeal the ruling of an inspection may do so under
the conditions and guidelines of the county Inspections Appeals Policy and G.S.
§§ 143-140 and 143-141.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-64) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.044 DISPOSITION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Legality. All plans and specifications under this section shall be
prepared by a registered architect or engineer as required and defined in G.S.
Chapter 83A or Chapter 89C unless otherwise excepted under the statutes.
   (B)   Plans required.
      (1)   Plans must be furnished to the Director on all apartment,
institutional, commercial industrial, residential (one- and two-family)
buildings. For every building classified under § 104.1.1 of the current North
Carolina Administrative Code and Policies, plans must be submitted to the
Division of Engineering and Building Codes of the state’s Insurance Division
for approval. Evidence of the approval must be presented to the Department
before a permit may be issued for the buildings.
      (2)   A site plan, pursuant to the county’s published site plan
requirements, must be furnished when the application is made for a building
permit. Plans for driveway entrances joining roads must be maintained and
approved by the state’s Department of Transportation and a copy of same
furnished to the Department. Other plans as specified in the County’s Unified
Development Ordinance shall be required.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-65) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.045 VALIDITY.
   (A)   The issuance of a permit based on drawings and/or specifications shall
not prevent the Director or his or her authorized agent from thereafter
requiring the correction of errors in the drawings and/or specifications or
from stopping unlawful building or use carried on thereunder. Wherever any work
is being performed contrary to the provisions of this section, the Director may
order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the
work and/or causing the work to be performed. The order shall be given to the
owner or permittee or his, her or its agents.
   (B)   After due stop order notice has been given, it shall be unlawful for
any person to proceed with the work until the corrective work required to be
performed by the notice is complied with, within a reasonable specified time.
Noncompliance with the requirements as set forth in the stop order shall cause
the permit to be voided by the Director.
   (C)   Any deviation from the approved plans must be consistent with G.S. §§
160D-1112. An additional permit fee may be charged depending on the extent of
variation from the original plans.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-66) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.046 PERMIT FEES.
   Building permit and inspection fees for the construction, alteration or
repair of buildings, billboards, signs, electrical wiring, rewiring, plumbing,
plumbing alterations, heating and air conditioning insulations shall either be
based on square footage, cost of construction or inspection service to be
performed according to a fee schedule adopted and published from time to time
by the Board of Commissioners and kept on file in the offices of the Clerk to
the Board, and Division.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-67) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990)
§ 150.047 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit, applicable permit fees must be paid to
the county.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-68) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.048 DISPOSITION OF PERMIT ISSUED.
   (A)   The copy of the permit issued shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the prosecution of the work and until completion of the same.
An identification placard provided by the Department showing the permit number
shall be conspicuously posted and readily visible for public inspection on the
site.
   (B)   A record of each inspection, signed by the Inspector, shall be entered
into the county’s permitting system.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-69) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.049 EXPIRATIONS.
   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-1111, if, after the work or use authorized by the
permit is not commenced within six months from the date of issuance, or if,
after commencement of work or use, the work or use is discontinued for a period
of 12 months, the permit shall be deemed canceled and the work or use may not
commence after this period until a new application is filed and a new permit
has been issued under the permit provisions of this section.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-70) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.050 INSPECTIONS.
   Inspections shall be called for as required by§ 107 of the current North
Carolina Administrative Code and Policies.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-71) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.051 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   Upon completion of construction and prior to the occupancy of a building
which has been authorized by a permit issued hereunder, the Inspector shall
inspect same; and if , on the basis of prior inspections, the work appears to
be in conformity with the state law and all ordinances and regulations relating
thereto, a certificate of completion shall be issued showing the same.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-72) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 6-18-1990; Ord. passed
4-19-2021)
§ 150.052 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This section shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electric wiring, devices, appliances or equipment for damages to
person or property caused by any defect therein, nor shall the county be held
as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspection authorized herein or
the certificate of approval issued as herein provided.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-73) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Electrical materials, devices, appliances and equipment, see G.S. §§ 66-23
et seq.
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalty or penalties prescribed in the state statutes
or any regulations promulgated thereto by the state or county pertaining to the
specific section or sections violated.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-18)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to all the applicable punishment, penalties and equitable relief provided for
by G.S. § 153A-123.
(1984 Code, § 2-4-87)
CHAPTER 151: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Conflict with other laws
Historic Preservation Commission
   
151.015   Creation and appointment
   
151.016   Qualification of members
   
151.017   Terms
   
151.018   Rules of procedures
   
151.019   Powers and duties
Historic Landmarks
   
151.030   Adoption of an ordinance of designation
   
151.031   Criteria for designation
   
151.032   Inventory
   
151.033   Required procedures for designation
   
151.034   Actions subsequent to approval
   
151.035   Denied applications
Historic Districts
   
151.050   Adoption of an ordinance of designation
   
151.051   Criteria for designation
   
151.052   Inventory
   
151.053   Required procedures for designation
   
151.054   Revisions to districts
Certificate of Appropriateness
   
151.065   Required
   
151.066   Principles and standards
   
151.067   Limitations on interior review
   
151.068   Certain changes not prohibited
   
151.069   Administrative approval for minor works allowed
   
151.070   Delay in demolition of designated properties
   
151.071   Demolition by neglect
   
151.072   Required procedures
   
151.073   Ordinance to apply to publically-owned buildings and structures
   
151.074   Remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   The historical heritage of Wake County is a valuable and important asset. By
listing and regulating historic districts and landmarks, and acquiring historic
properties, the county seeks:
   (A)   To safeguard the heritage of the county, including its municipalities,
by preserving districts and landmarks therein that embody important elements of
its culture, history, architectural history, or prehistory; and
   (B)   To promote the use and conservation of such districts and landmarks
for the education, pleasure, and enrichment of the residents of the county and
state as a whole.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. O-92-23, passed 11-16-1992)
§ 151.002 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with any other
statute, charter provision, ordinance or regulation of the local governing
body, the more restrictive ordinance or regulation shall govern.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 151.015 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established, by authority of G.S. Chapter 160D,
Article 9, Part 4, a joint historic preservation commission to be known as the
Wake County Historic Preservation Commission or "Commission." The Commission
shall consist of at least nine members but no more than twelve members
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Wake County. All members must reside
in Wake County within the jurisdiction of the Commission, which shall include
the area wherein the county and municipalities which adopt this chapter have
authority for planning and regulation of development.
   (B)   In making appointments to the Commission, the Board of Commissioners
shall strive to appoint one member from each of the seven Board of
Commissioners districts. The need for district representation shall be balanced
with the availability of and need for specific expertise on the Commission.
   (C)   In establishing the Commission and making appointments to it, the
Board of Commissioners shall seek the advice of local governing bodies, or such
state or local historical agencies, societies, or organizations as it may deem
necessary. The Commission may appoint advisory bodies and committees as
appropriate.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. O-92-23, passed 11-16-1992; Ord. O-95-5, passed 5-
15-1995; Ord. 0-99-22, passed 5-17-1999; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.016 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   A majority of the members of the Commission shall have demonstrated special
interest, experience or education in history, architecture, archaeology, or
related fields.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992, Ord. O-92-23, passed 11-16-1992)
§ 151.017 TERMS.
   Commission members shall serve overlapping terms of two years, and until
their successors have been appointed. Initially, the Board of Commissioners
shall appoint six members to a term of one year and appoint five members to a
full term of two years. Thereafter, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint
members to two-year terms. Any vacancy during the unexpired term of a member of
the Commission shall be filled in accordance with county policy.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992, Ord. O-92-23, passed 11-16-1992)
§ 151.018 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Commission shall adopt rules of procedure necessary to the conduct of
its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. The rules of
procedure adopted by the Commission shall at least provide for the selection of
officers of the Commission, the time and place of its regular meetings and the
calling of special meetings, the procedures for the conduct of public hearings,
the conduct of voting, the forms to be used in applying for and issuing or
denying certificates of appropriateness, and a list of minor works for which
Commission staff may issue Certificates of Appropriateness.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.019 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission is authorized and empowered to undertake such actions
reasonably necessary to the discharge and conduct of its duties and
responsibilities as outlined in this chapter and the N.C. General Statutes,
including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance.
   (B)   Recommend to the local governing body with which the county has
entered an agreement, individual buildings, structures, sites, areas, or
objects within its zoning jurisdiction to be designated by ordinance as
“historic landmarks,” and areas within its zoning jurisdiction to be designated
by ordinance as “historic districts.”
   (C)   Recommend to the local governing body that designation of any area as
a historic district or part thereof, or of any building, structure, site, area,
or object as a historic landmark, be revoked or removed for cause.
   (D)   Review and act upon proposals for alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks and for alteration, demolition, or new construction within
historic districts, pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Report violations of this chapter, or other ordinances affecting
historic landmarks and properties within historic districts, to the local
official responsible for enforcing the ordinance.
   (F)   Act as, establish, or designate a group, body, or committee to give
advice to owners of historic landmarks or property within a historic district
concerning the treatment of the historical and visual characteristics of their
property, such as color schemes, gardens and landscape features, minor
decorative elements, and for the informal review of major additions and new
construction.
   (G)   Conduct an educational program on historic landmarks and districts
within the county.
   (H)   Publish information, or otherwise inform the public about any matters
pertinent to its purview, duties, organization, procedures, responsibilities,
functions, or requirements.
   (I)   Cooperate with state, federal and local governments in pursuing the
purposes of this chapter. The local governing body or the Commission when
authorized by the appropriate local governing body may contract with the state,
or the United States of America, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization, provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or federal
law.
   (J)   Communicate with other boards or commissions in Wake County or with
agencies of the county or other governmental units to offer or request
assistance, aid, guidance, or advice concerning matters under its purview or of
mutual interest.
   (K)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a historic preservation
element as part of the county's comprehensive plan and a municipality's
comprehensive plan, at the request of the local governing body.
   (L)   Accept funds to be used for preservation purposes that are granted to
the Commission by private individuals, organizations, and local governing
bodies.
   (M)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included interest,
including options to purchase, to any historic landmarks, land to which
historic buildings or structures may be moved, or properties located within
historic districts; hold, manage, preserve, restore and improve the interest;
and exchange or dispose of the interest by public or private sale, lease, or
otherwise, subject to covenants or other legally binding restrictions which
will secure appropriate rights of public access and promote the preservation of
the property. All lands, buildings, structures, sites, areas, or objects
acquired by funds appropriated by a local governing body shall be acquired in
the name of the local government unless otherwise provided by the local
governing body.
   (N)   Restore, preserve and operate such historic properties.
   (O)   Enter, at reasonable times, upon private lands and make examinations
or surveys as necessary to the performance of its official duties. However, no
member, employee or agent of the Commission may enter any private building or
structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   (P)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure, site,
area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action is
reasonably necessary and appropriate.
   (Q)   Take steps, during the period of postponement of demolition or
alteration of any historic landmark or property within a historic district, to
ascertain what the local governing body can or may do to preserve such
property, including consultation with private civic groups, interested private
citizens, and other public boards or agencies, and including investigation of
potential acquisition by the local governing body when the preservation of a
given historic property is clearly in the interest of the general welfare of
the community and such property is of certain historic and architectural
significance.
   (R)   Propose to the local governing body changes to this or any other
ordinance, and propose new ordinances or laws relating to historic landmarks
and districts or relating to a total program for the protection and/or
development of the historic resources of Wake County, the municipalities
therein, and their environs.
   (S)   Organize itself and conduct its business, including any meetings or
hearings necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
HISTORIC LANDMARKS
§ 151.030 ADOPTION OF AN ORDINANCE OF DESIGNATION.
   Upon compliance with the procedures set out in §
151.033, the local governing body may adopt and, from time to time, amend or
repeal an ordinance designating one or more historic landmarks. The ordinance
shall include information which shall:
   (A)   List the name or names of the owner or owners of the property;
   (B)   Describe each property designated in the ordinance, including the
approximate area of the property so designated;
   (C)   Describe those elements of the property that are integral to its
historical, prehistorical, architectural, archaeological, and/or cultural
significance;
   (D)   Provide for each designated historic landmark, a suitable sign or
plaque indicating that the landmark has been so designated; and
   (E)   Any other information the local governing body deems necessary within
the authority of this chapter and the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.031 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.
   In order for any building, structure, site, area, or object to be designated
in an ordinance as a historic landmark, the Commission must find that the
property is of special significance in terms of its history, prehistory,
architecture and/or cultural importance, and that it possesses integrity of
design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/or association.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.032 INVENTORY.
   The Commission shall use an inventory of buildings, structures, sites,
areas, or objects of historical, prehistorical, architectural, and/or cultural
significance in the county as a guide to the identification, assessment, and
designation of historic landmarks. The Commission shall update the inventory
from time to time.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.033 REQUIRED PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATION.
   A local governing body may not adopt or amend an ordinance designating a
historic building, structure, site, area, or object, or acquire any landmark,
until the steps prescribed by this chapter and its sections have been taken,
including rules of procedure and guidelines for the altering, restoring,
moving, or demolishing properties designated as historic. Designation
procedures may be initiated by the Commission or at the request of a property
owner.
   (A)   Designation reports. The Commission shall make, or cause to be made,
an investigation and report that includes all the information contained in this
section. Applications prepared by owners will be judged by the same criteria as
those prepared by the Commission.
      (1)   The name of the property to be considered for designation, both
common and historic names, if they can be determined;
      (2)   The name and address of the current property owner;
      (3)   The location of the property proposed to be designated historic,
including the street address and Wake County tax map and parcel numbers or the
parcel identification number;
      (4)   The date of construction and of any later alterations, if any;
      (5)   An assessment of the significance of the site or structure pursuant
to §
151.031;
      (6)   An architectural or archaeological description of the area of the
site or structure proposed to be designated. If outbuildings or other
appurtenant features are proposed to be designated, the report shall contain a
description of those features;
      (7)   A historical discussion of the site or structure within its type,
period and locality;
      (8)   A photograph that clearly depicts the property proposed to be
designated and supplementary photographs showing facades, details and siting;
and
      (9)   A map showing the location of the property, including any
outbuildings and appurtenant features.
   (B)    Review by the Department of Cultural Resources. A report accepted by
the Commission shall be submitted to the Office of Archives and History, North
Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, or its successor agency, for
comments pursuant to G.S. § 160D-946, as amended from time to time. The
Department of Cultural Resources or its successor agency, acting through the
State Historic Preservation Officer, shall, either upon request of the
Department or at the initiative of the Commission, be given an opportunity to
review and comment upon the substance and effect of the designation of any
landmark pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Consideration of the report. 
      (1)   Once the designation report has been prepared, either by the
Commission or by the owner, and is deemed by the Commission staff to meet the
provisions of division (A) of this section, the Commission shall consider the
report. The Commission may accept it, amend it, reject it, or recommend further
study.
      (2)   Prior to final action on a designation report, the Commission shall
indicate the extent to which the landmark meets the criteria for designation in
§
151.031.
      (3)   The Commission should consider any comments received in writing
from the Department of Cultural Resources or its successor agency. If the
Department does not submit its written comments or recommendations in
connection with any proposed designation within 30 days following receipt of
the report, the Commission and the local governing body shall be relieved of
any responsibility to consider such comments. After the expiration of the 30-
day comment period given the Division of Archives and History, the Commission
may recommend to the local governing body that the property be designated as a
historic landmark.
   (D)   Submission to the governing body. The Commission shall forward its
recommendation to the local governing body. The Commission shall submit a copy
of the designation report, any written comments received from the Department of
Cultural Resources, and, if the recommendation is for approval, a proposed
ordinance of designation, to the local governing body.
   (E)   Public hearing. When a proposed ordinance of designation is submitted,
the Commission and the local governing body shall hold a joint public hearing
or separate public hearings on the proposed ordinance. Reasonable notice of the
time and place thereof shall be given.
   (F)   Adoption of a designation ordinance. Following the required public
hearing, the local governing body shall consider the designation report, the
Commission's recommendation, the Department of Cultural Resource's comments,
and the comments made at the public hearing, and may adopt the ordinance as
proposed, adopt the ordinance with amendments or reject the ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.034 ACTIONS SUBSEQUENT TO APPROVAL.
   Upon adoption of the ordinance:
   (A)   Commission staff shall send the owner(s) of the landmark, as
identified by current tax records, written notice of such designation within 30
days of adoption of the ordinance by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (B)   The Commission shall file one copy of the ordinance and any subsequent
amendments thereto, in the office of the Register of Deeds of Wake County. The
Register of Deeds shall index each historic landmark according to the name of
the owner in the grantee and grantor indexes. The Commission shall pay a fee
for filing and indexing.
   (C)   In the case of a landmark lying within the zoning jurisdiction of a
municipality, a second copy of the ordinance shall be kept on file in the
office of the municipal clerk and be made available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. A copy shall also be given to the municipality's
Inspections Director.
   (D)   All tax maps maintained by the county shall clearly indicate the
designation of a building, structure, site, area, or object as a historic
landmark for as long as the designation remains in effect.
   (E)   The Commission staff shall notify the tax assessor of Wake County of
the landmark designation. The assessor shall consider the designation and any
recorded restriction on the landmark in appraising it for tax purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.035 DENIED APPLICATIONS.
   If the local governing body denies a designation report, a copy of the
minutes of the meeting at which such a decision to deny the report was made,
shall be mailed to the owner of the property proposed for designation.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
HISTORIC DISTRICTS
§ 151.050 ADOPTION OF AN ORDINANCE OF DESIGNATION.
   No historic district may exist without an ordinance designating it as such.
Upon compliance with the procedures contained in §
151.053, the local governing body within its jurisdiction, may adopt and from
time to time amend or repeal an ordinance designating one or more historic
districts.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.051 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.
   In order for any area to be designated in an ordinance as a historic
district, the Commission must find that the area is of special significance in
terms of its history, prehistory, architecture and/or cultural importance, and
that it possesses integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling
and/or association.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.052 INVENTORY.
   The Commission shall use an inventory of buildings, structures, sites,
areas, or objects of historical, prehistorical, and architectural significance
in the county as a guide for the identification, assessment, and designation of
historic districts. The Commission shall update the inventory from time to
time.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.053 REQUIRED PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATION.
   A local governing body may not adopt or amend an ordinance designating a
historic district, nor may the local governing body or the Commission accept
any district until the steps prescribed by this section have been taken.
   (A)   Designation report. The Commission shall prepare or review an
investigation and report describing the significance of the buildings,
structure, features, sites, or surroundings included in any such proposed
district, and the description of the boundaries of such district. Such report
shall be referred to the local governing body or the local planning agency for
its review and comment according to procedures set forth in the zoning
ordinance of the corresponding jurisdiction.
   (B)   Review by the Department of Cultural Resources.
      (1)   All designation reports shall be submitted to the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources by the Commission. The Department of Cultural
Resources or its successor agency, acting through the State Historic
Preservation Officer, shall, either upon request of the Department or at the
initiative of the Commission, be given an opportunity to review and comment
upon the substance and effect of the designation of any district.
      (2)   If the Department does not submit its written comments or
recommendations in connection with any proposed designation within 30 days
following receipt of the report, the Commission and the local governing body
shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider such comments. After the
expiration of the 30-day comment period given the Department, the Commission
may recommend to the local governing body that the area be designated as a
historic district.
   (C)   Review by other groups. The local governing body may also, in its
discretion, refer the designation report and proposed boundaries to any local
preservation commission or other interested body for its recommendations prior
to taking action to amend the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Adoption of a designation ordinance. On receipt of these reports and
recommendations, the local governing body may proceed in the same manner as
would otherwise be required for the adoption or amendment of any appropriate
zoning ordinance provisions.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.054 REVISIONS TO DISTRICTS.
   With respect to any changes in the boundaries of an adopted historic
district subsequent to its initial establishment, the requirements and
procedures contained in this subchapter shall apply.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
§ 151.065 REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the designation of a historic landmark or district, no
exterior portion of any building or other structure (including masonry walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features), nor
above-ground utility structure nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall
be erected, altered, restored, moved, or demolished on such landmark or within
such district until after an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness
as to exterior features has been submitted to and approved by the Commission.
In adopting an ordinance establishing a historic district, the local governing
body shall provide that no building permit or other permit granted for the
purposes of constructing, altering, moving, or demolishing structures shall be
issued unless the Commission has first issued a Certificate of Appropriateness
authorizing the construction, alteration, moving, or demolition. Any building
permit or such other permit not issued in conformity with this section shall be
invalid. In approving a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Commission may
attach reasonable conditions necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. A Certificate of Appropriateness shall be required whether or not a
building permit is required.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, “exterior features” shall include the
architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of
a building or other structure, including the kind and texture of the building
material, the size and scale of the building or other structure, and the type
and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant
fixtures. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, “exterior features” shall
mean the style, material, size, and location of all such signs. In adopting an
ordinance establishing a historic district, the local governing body may
provide that “exterior features” also include historic signs, color, and
significant landscape, archaeological, and natural features of the area. The
Commission shall take no action under this section except to prevent the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving, or demolition of
buildings, structures, appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising signs, or
other significant features which would be incongruous with the special
character of the landmark or district.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.066 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS.
   Prior to the designation of any historic landmark or district, the
Commission shall prepare and adopt principles and standards, not inconsistent
with G.S. 160D-947 for altering, restoring, moving, or demolishing of property
designated as historic. It is the intention of these guidelines to ensure,
insofar as possible, that changes in designated landmarks or properties located
within designated districts shall be in harmony with the reasons for
designation.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.067 LIMITATIONS ON INTERIOR REVIEW.
   Notwithstanding this chapter, jurisdiction of the Commission over interior
spaces shall be limited to specific interior features of architectural,
artistic, or historical significance in publicly-owned landmarks, and of
privately-owned historic landmarks for which consent for interior review has
been given by the owner. If an owner's consent for interior review has been
filed in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds and indexed according
to the name of the owner of the property in the grantee and grantor indexes,
such consent shall bind future owners and/or successors in title. The ordinance
establishing the historic designation shall specify the interior features to be
reviewed and the specific nature of the Commission's jurisdiction over those
features.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.068 CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature of a historic
landmark or property located within a district that does not involve a change
in design, material, or outer appearance thereof. Nor shall this chapter be
construed to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration,
moving, or demolition of any such feature when a building inspector or similar
official certifies to the Commission that such action is required for the
public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall
be construed to prevent a property owner from making any use of his property
not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances, or regulations. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to prevent the maintenance of or, in the event of an
emergency, immediate restoration of any existing above-ground utility structure
without approval by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.069 ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL FOR MINOR WORKS ALLOWED.
   (A)   The Commission staff may issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for
minor works, as listed in the Commission's Rules of Procedure. Minor works
shall include and are defined as those exterior changes that do not involve
substantial alterations, additions, or removals that could impair the integrity
of the property and/or district as a whole.
   (B)   No application for a minor works Certificate of Appropriateness may be
denied without formal action by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.070 DELAY IN DEMOLITION OF DESIGNATED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided below, the Commission may not deny an application
for a Certificate of Appropriateness authorizing the demolition of a designated
historic landmark or property located within a district. However, the
Commission may delay the effective date of such a certificate for a period of
up to 365 days from the date of approval. The Commission may reduce the period
of delay where it finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return from such property by
virtue of the delay. During such period, the Commission may negotiate with the
owner and with any other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the
property, as provided in section §
151.019 (Q).
   (B)   The Commission may deny an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness authorizing the demolition or destruction of a building, site,
or structure determined by the State Historic Preservation Office to have
statewide significance, as defined in the criteria of the National Register of
Historic Places, unless the Commission finds that the owner would suffer
extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by
virtue of the denial.
   (C)   If the Commission has voted to recommend designation of a property as
a landmark or designation of an area as a district, and final designation has
not been made by the local governing body, the demolition or destruction of any
building, site, or structure located on the property of the proposed landmark
or in the proposed district may be delayed by the Commission for a period of up
to 180 days or until the local governing body takes action on the designation,
whichever occurs first. Should the governing body approve the designation prior
to the expiration of the 180 day delay period, an application for a Certificate
of Appropriateness for demolition must then be filed; however, the maximum
delay period of 365 days shall be reduced by the period of delay while the
designation was pending.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. O-93-19, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 151.071 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   Demolition by neglect of any designated historic landmark or property
located within a district shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The
local governing body may take appropriate actions to prevent demolition by
neglect, provided such actions include appropriate safeguards to protect the
property owner from undue economic hardship.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.072 REQUIRED PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submittal of application. An application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be obtained from and, when completed, filed with the
Commission staff. Applications for Certificates of Appropriateness shall be
considered by the Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided
they have been filed, complete in form and content, at least ten working days
before the meeting; otherwise consideration shall be deferred until the
following meeting.
   (B)   Contents of application.
      (1)   The Commission shall, by uniform rule in its Rules of Procedure,
require information as is reasonably necessary to determine the nature of the
application. An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall not be
considered complete until the required information is included. An incomplete
application shall not be accepted.
      (2)   Nothing shall prevent the applicant from filing with the
application additional relevant information bearing on the application.
   (C)   Notification of affected property owners. Before considering an
application for a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Commission shall notify
by mail the owners of any adjacent property. The mailed notices are for the
convenience of the property owners and occupants and any defect or their
omission therein shall not impair the validity of issuing a Certificate of
Appropriateness, or any following action.
   (D)   Hearing. When considering an application, the Commission shall give
the applicant and owners of any property likely to be materially affected by
the application, an opportunity to be heard.
   (E)   Commission action on application.
      (1)   When considering the application, the Commission shall apply the
review guidelines required by §
151.002, and shall, before final action of the application, make findings of
fact indicating the extent to which the application is or is not in compliance
with the review criteria.
      (2)   The Commission's action on the application shall be approval,
approval with modifications, deferral, or disapproval.
   (F)   Reasons for Commission's actions to appear in minutes. The Commission
shall cause to be entered into the minutes of its meeting the reasons for its
actions, whether it be approval, approval with modifications, deferral or
denial. The minutes shall also contain a summary of any citation to the
evidence, testimony, studies, or other authority upon which it based its
decision.
   (G)   Time limits.
      (1)   If the Commission fails to take final action upon any application
within 90 days after the complete application is submitted to the Commission
staff, the application shall be deemed to be approved as submitted. This time
period may be extended upon mutual agreement between the Commission and the
applicant.
      (2)   A Certificate of Appropriateness shall expire six months after the
date of issuance, or in the case of a demolition Certificate of
Appropriateness, the effective date, if the work authorized by the certificate
has not been commenced. If the work has been discontinued for a period of 12
months after commencement, the permit shall immediately expire.
   (H)   Submission of new application. If the Commission denies a Certificate
of Appropriateness, a new application affecting the same property may be
submitted only if substantial change is made in plans for the proposed
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, or moving.
   (I)   Appeals of the Commission's decision. An appeal may be made to the
Board of Adjustment of the corresponding jurisdiction regarding the
Commission's action in approving or denying any application for a Certificate
of Appropriateness. Written notice of intent to appeal must be sent to the
Commission, postmarked within 20 days following the Commission's decision,
unless oral notice of appeal is made to the Commission during the meeting at
which the decision is rendered. Appeals must be filed with the Board of
Adjustment of the corresponding jurisdiction within 60 days following the
Commission's decision. Appeals shall be in the nature of certiorari. The Board
of Adjustment's decision in any such case may be appealed to the superior court
of Wake County.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 151.073 CHAPTER TO APPLY TO PUBLICLY OWNED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Designated historic buildings, structures, sites, areas, or objects owned by
the state or any of its political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities
shall be subject to the regulations imposed by this chapter, in accordance with
G.S. § 160D-947.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.074 REMEDIES.
   In case any building, structure, site, area, or object designated a historic
landmark or any property located within a historic district is about to be
demolished as the result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially
altered, remodeled, or removed, except in compliance with this chapter, the
local governing body, the Commission, or other party aggrieved by such action
may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful
demolition, material alteration, remodeling, or removal, to restrain, correct
or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect
to such historic property.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1984 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                Code Section
1A-1                        150.025
                            34.99,
14-4                        70.99,
                            90.05,
                            111.05
14-4(a)                     10.99
Ch. 14, Art. 35             32.01
14-269(b)                   32.03
14-288.1 et seq.            70.99
14-288.1                    70.31
14-313(4)                   32.15
14-313(5)                   32.15
14-399                      50.19
14-409.39(2)                70.31
14-409.40                   70.31
15-27.2                     150.025
Ch. 19A, Art. 4             91.05
19A-45                      91.05
58-4 et seq.                150.004
Ch. 66                      110.02
66-23 et seq.               150.052
74-46 - 74-68               50.02
Ch. 83A                     150.044
Ch. 87                      Ch. 150,
                            150.042
Ch. 89C                     150.044
Ch. 105                     31.03
105-33 et seq.              110.02
Ch. 113, Sub. IV            130.06
113-29 et seq.              30.001
125-5                       30.047
Ch. 126, Art. 6             31.02
126-11                      31.02
130A-294                    50.22
130A-294(b1)(1)             50.22
130A-294(b1)(2)             50.22
130A-294(b1)(3)             50.22
130A-301.1                  50.10
130A-309.09A - 130A-309.09D 50.01
130A-492(6)                 32.15
130A-492(8)                 32.15
130A-492(9)                 32.15
130A-492(14)                32.15
130A-492(16)                32.15
130A-498                    32.15
130A-498(b1)                32.15
Ch. 130A, Art. 9            50.02
131E-155(1)                 111.02
131E-155(7)                 111.02
Ch. 143, Art. 21A           50.02
143-128 et seq.             Ch. 150
                            Ch. 150,
143-136 et seq.             150.004,
                            150.005
143-138                     150.036
143-138(B),(E)              Ch. 150
143-138(e)                  Ch. 72
143-139                     72.04
143-140                     150.043
143-141                     150.043
143-143.8 et seq.           Ch. 150
143-151.8 et seq.           Ch. 150
143-215.1                   50.02
143-507(d)                  111.02
143B-324.1 - 143B-324.3     30.001
143B-446 et seq.            30.001
150B-21.3                   Ch. 72
153.250                     111.02
153.250(c)                  111.06
153A-25 et seq.             150.004
153A-49                     10.19,
                            10.20
Ch. 153A, Art. 5, Part 4    31.03
153A-77                     30.025,
                            30.026
153A-77(d)                  30.028
153A-82                     31.03,
                            32.15
153A-98                     31.10
                            32.15,
153A-121                    50.01,
                            110.02
153A-122                    34.05
                            50.20,
                            50.99,
                            70.99,
153A-123                    71.06,
                            72.04,  
                            72.06,
                            150.999
153A-123(b)                 111.05
153A-123(c)                 111.05
153A-123(d)                 34.99,
                            111.05
153A-123(e)                 34.99
153A-123(g)                 70.99,
                            111.05
153A-132.1                  50.01
153A-134 et seq.            110.02
153A-136                    50.01
153A-149(c)(9)              70.99
153A-149(26)                Ch. 150
153A-152 et seq.            110.02
153A-234                    72.04
Ch. 153A, Art. 11           Ch. 72
153A-240(a)                 111.04
153A-250(c)                 111.01
153A-263                    30.047
153A-274 - 153A-278         50.01
153A-291 - 153A-293         50.01
153A-321                    30.065
153A-444                    30.001
Ch. 153A, Art. 14           30.046
160A-175                    10.99 ,
                            72.04
160A-350 et seq.            30.001
160D-404                    150.025
Ch. 160D, Art. 9, Part 4    151.015
160D-946                    151.033
160D-947                    151.066,
                            151.073
160D-1101 et seq.           Ch. 150
160D-1103                   150.022,
                            150.023
160D-1104                   150.021
160D-1106                   150.043
160D-1110                   150.040
160D-1111                   150.049
160D-1112                   150.045
160D-1118                   150.025
160D-1121                   150.025
160D-1127                   72.04
Ch. 162B                    70.99
Ch. 166A                    70.06,
                            70.99
Ch. 166A-7                  Ch. 70,
                            70.05
166A-19.15                  70.05,
                            70.06
166A-19.22                  70.26
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code Section 2009 Code Section
1984 Code Section 2009 Code Section
2-4-16            150.001
2-4-18            150.999
2-4-19            150.002,
                  150.003
2-4-20            150.004
2-4-21            150.005
2-4-22            150.006
2-4-23            150.007
2-4-36            150.007
2-4-37            150.021
2-4-38            150.022
2-4-39            150.023
2-4-40            150.024
2-4-41            150.025
2-4-56            150.035
2-4-57            150.036
2-4-58            150.037
2-4-59            150.038
2-4-60            150.039
2-4-61            150.040
2-4-62            150.041
2-4-63            150.042
2-4-64            150.043
2-4-65            150.044
2-4-66            150.045
2-4-67            150.046
2-4-68            150.047
2-4-69            150.048
2-4-70            150.049
2-4-71            150.050
2-4-72            150.051
2-4-73            150.052
2-4-87            150.999
2-5-1             70.50,
                  70.99
2-5-16            70.01
2-5-17            70.02
2-5-18            70.03
2-5-19            70.04
2-5-20            70.05
2-5-21            70.06
2-5-22            70.07
2-5-23            70.08
2-5-24            70.09
2-5-26            70.10,
                  70.12
2-5-36            70.25
2-5-38            70.26
2-5-39            70.27
2-5-40            70.28
2-5-41            70.29
2-5-42            70.30
2-5-43            70.31
2-5-44            70.32
2-5-45            70.33
2-5-46            70.34
2-5-49            70.35
2-5-61            71.01
2-5-62            71.02
2-5-63            71.03
2-5-64            71.04
2-5-65            71.05
2-5-66            71.06
2-7-16            110.01
2-7-17            110.02
2-7-18            110.03
2-7-61            112.01
2-7-62            112.02
2-7-63            112.03
2-7-64            112.04
2-7-65            112.05
2-7-66            112.06
2-7-76            112.20
2-7-77            112.21
2-7-78            112.22
2-7-79            112.23
2-7-80            112.24
2-7-81            112.25
2-9-16            130.01
2-9-17            130.02
2-9-18            130.03
2-9-19            130.04
2-9-20            130.05
2-9-21            130.06
2-9-36            92.01
2-9-37            92.02
2-9-38            92.03
2-9-38.1          92.03
2-9-38.2          92.03
2-9-40            92.04
2-9-41            92.05
2-9-43            92.06
2-9-44            92.07,
                  92.08
2-12-16           93.01
2-12-17           93.02
2-12-18           93.03
2-12-19           93.04
2-12-20           93.05
2-12-21           93.06
2-12-22           93.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -2006     70.11
–      11-18-2019  31.05
–      12-2-2019   31.08
–      11-9-2022   32.15
–      11-20-2023  31.08
-        12-4-2023   92.01 -
                     92.08
-        1-2-2024    31.08
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     112.01 -
–      5-7-1973    112.06,
                     112.20 -
                     112.25
                     150.001 -
                     150.007,
–      8-6-1979    150.020 -
                     150.025,
                     150.035 -
                     150.052
                     70.01 -
                     70.09,
–      1-5-1981    70.25 -
                     70.28,
                     70.30 -
                     70.34
                     130.01 -
–      5-4-1981    130.04,
                     130.06
–      1-4-1982    110.01 -
                     110.03
–      11-4-1985   31.01 -
                     31.13
                     93.01 -
-        6-2-1986    93.06,
                     93.99
–      11-17-1986  92.01 -
                     92.06
–      6-30-1988   71.01 -
                     71.06
                     150.005,
                     150.007,
                     150.021 -
                     150.024,
--       6-18-1990   150.039,
                     150.042 -
                     150.048,
                     150.050,
                     150.051
                     70.01 -
                     70.10,
–      10-1-1990   70.12,
                     70.25 -
                     70.35
–      11-26-1990  150.025,
                     150.035
–      3-4-1991    70.50,
                     70.99
-        5-4-1992    151.001 -
                     151.074
O-92-23  11-16-1992  151.015 -
                     151.017
O-92-24  - -         50.17
O-93-8   - -         31.06,
                     31.08
O-93-13  9-7-1993    92.07,
                     92.08
                     50.01 -
                     50.18,
O-93-14  9-7-1993    50.20,
                     50.21,
                     50.99
O-93-19  9-20-1993   151.070
O-93-20  9-20-1993   30.065 -
                     30.071
O-94-1   1-31-1994   50.18
–      4-4-1994    92.03
O-94-6   4-4-1994    92.04
O-95-3   2-20-1995   33.01
O-95-5   5-15-1995   151.015
O-96-12  3-20-1996   30.045 -
                     30.051
                     90.01 -
O-96-5   4-1-1996    90.09,
                     90.99
O-96-18  7-8-1996    30.025 -
                     30.030
–      8-19-1996   30.049
O-97-8A  2-17-1997   32.01 -
                     32.03
–      12-7-1998   32.01 -
                     32.03
O-99-22  5-17-1999   151.015
–      9-7-1999    50.22
O-00-23  - -         50.17
–      6-4-2001    130.01 -
                     130.06
–      8-4-2003    30.001,
                     30.002
                     91.01 -
                     91.20,
                     91.30 -
–      5-3-2004    91.39,
                     91.50 -
                     91.58,
                     91.99
–      10-4-2004   92.01 -
                     92.08
                     31.01 -
–      7-17-2006   31.13,
                     31.05
–      8-20-2007   32.15
–      12-3-2007   50.19,
                     50.99
–      1-11-2008   50.02,
                     50.17
–      5-4-2009    32.20 -
                     32.32
-        8-16-2010   70.50
                     94.01 -
–      11-7-2011   94.09,
                     94.99
OA-01-12 3-19-2012   50.22
                     94.01 -
–      5-21-2012   94.09,
                     94.99
                     91.01,
                     91.07,
                     91.10,
–      6-4-2012    91.33,
                     91.40,
                     91.41,
                     91.50 -
                     91.54
–      8-3-2015    111.01 -
                     111.06
–      9-21-2015   31.04
–      12-22-2015  32.15
–      4-18-2016   31.15
–      9-18-2017   31.08
–      9-18-2017   31.14
                     91.01,
                     91.07,
–      11-20-2017  91.12,
                     91.13,
                     91.16,
                     91.17
–      8- -2018    31.08
–      - -         91.30 -
                     91.39
–      7-6-2020    31.08
                     150.002,
                     150.005,
                     150.006,
                     150.021 -
                     150.023,
                     150.025,
–      4-19-2021   150.035,
                     150.036,
                     150.038,
                     150.040 -
                     150.045,
                     150.047 -
                     150.051,
                     150.999
                     151.015,
                     151.019,
                     151.031 -
–      4-19-2021   151.033,
                     151.051 -
                     151.053,
                     151.066,
                     151.073
                     34.01 -
–      10-18-2021  34.06,
                     34.99
–      10-3-2022   31.08
-        11-9-2022   130.01 -
                     130.07
-        7-10-2023   31.14
                     70.01 -
                     70.12,
                     70.25 -
                     70.35,
                     70.50,
-        2-5-2024    70.99,
                     71.01 -
                     71.06,
                     71.99,
                     72.01 -
                     72.06
                    
 
 
