TOWN OF WALNUT COVE,
NORTH CAROLINA
Local legislation current through Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588    Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   Sec. 1
Article I.  Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
      Section
1.1.   Incorporation
      Section
1.2.   Powers
      Section
1.3.   Corporate limits
Article II.  Governing Body
      Section
2.1.   Mayor and Board of Commissioners
      Section
2.2.   Board of Commissioners: composition: terms of office
      Section
2.3.   Mayor: term of office: duties
      Section
2.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore
      Section
2.5.   Meetings
      Section
2.6.   Voting requirements: quorum
      Section
2.7.   Compensation: qualifications for office: vacancies
Article III.  Elections
      Section
3.1.   Regular municipal elections
      Section
3.2.   Election of Board of Commissioners
      Section
3.3.   Election of Mayor
      Section
3.4.   Special elections and referendums
Article IV.  Organization and Administration
      Section
4.1.   Form of government
      Section
4.2.   Town Manager
      Section
4.3.   Town Clerk
      Section
4.4.   Tax Collector
      Section
4.5.   Town Attorney
      Section
4.6.   Other administrative officers and employees
Article V.  Additional Provisions
      Section
5.1.   Alcoholic beverage control stores
      Section
2
      Section
3
      Section
4
      Section
5
      Section
6
      Section
7
      Section
8
      Section
9
      Section
10
      Section
11
      Section
12
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF WALNUT COVE
Editor’s note:
   Please see Chapter 31 of the codified ordinances of the Town of Walnut Cove
for legislation amending the Charter.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   Section 1.  The Charter of the Town of Walnut Cove is revised and
consolidated to read as follows:
“ THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF WALNUT COVE
ARTICLE I.  INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
 
   “Section 1.1.  Incorporation.  The Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina in
Stokes County and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate, under the name of the ‘Town of Walnut Cove,’ hereinafter
at times referred to as the ‘Town.’
   “Section 1.2.  Powers.  The Town shall have and may exercise all of the
powers, duties, rights, privileges and immunities conferred upon the Town of
Walnut Cove specifically by this Charter or upon municipal corporations by
general law. The term ‘general law’ is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-
1.
   “Section 1.3.  Corporate Limits.  The corporate limits shall be those
existing at the time of ratification of this Charter, as set forth on the
official map of the Town and as they may be altered from time to time in
accordance with law. An official map of the Town, showing the current
boundaries, shall be maintained permanently in the office of the Town Clerk and
shall be available for public inspection. Immediately upon alteration of the
corporate limits made pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to the official
map shall be made and copies shall be filed in the office of the Secretary of
State, the Stokes County Register of Deeds and the appropriate board of
elections.
ARTICLE II.  GOVERNING BODY
 
   “Section 2.1.  Mayor and Board of Commissioners.  The Mayor and the Board of
Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board,’ shall be the governing
body of the Town.
   “Section 2.2.  Board of Commissioners: Composition: Terms of Office.  The
Board shall be composed of four Commissioners elected by all the qualified
voters of the Town for staggered terms of four years or until their successors
are elected and qualified.
   “Section 2.3.  Mayor: Term of Office: Duties.  The Mayor shall be elected by
all the qualified voters of the Town for a term of two years or until his or
her successor is elected and qualified; shall be the official head of the Town
government and preside at meetings of the Board; shall have the right to vote
only when there is an equal division on any question or matter before the
Board; and shall exercise the powers and duties conferred by law or as directed
by the Board.
   “Section 2.4.  Mayor Pro Tempore.  The Board shall elect one of its members
as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform the duties of the Mayor during his or her
absence or disability, in accordance with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore
shall serve in such capacity until the organizational meeting following the
next regular municipal election, despite the contrary provisions of G.S. 160A-
70.
   “Section 2.5.  Meetings.  In accordance with general law, the Board shall
establish a suitable time and place for its regular meetings. Special and
emergency meetings may be held as provided by general law.
   “Section 2.6.  Voting Requirements: Quorum.  Official actions of the Board
and all votes shall be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of
general law, particularly G.S. 160A-75. The quorum provisions of G.S. 160A-74
shall apply.
   “Section 2.7.  Compensation: Qualifications for Office: Vacancies.  The
compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Commissioners shall be in
accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office of the
Town shall be filled as provided in G.S. 160A-63.
ARTICLE III.  ELECTIONS
 
   “Section 3.1.  Regular Municipal Elections.  Regular municipal elections
shall be held in each odd-numbered year in accordance with the uniform
municipal election laws of North Carolina. Elections are conducted on a
nonpartisan basis and the results determined using the nonpartisan plurality
method as provided in G.S. 163-292.
   “Section 3.2.  Election of Board of Commissioners.  The Commissioners
serving on the date of ratification of this Charter shall serve until the
expiration of their terms or until their successors are elected and qualified.
Four Commissioners shall be elected in each regular municipal election in
1991.  the two persons receiving the highest numbers of votes shall be elected
to four-year terms, and the two persons receiving the next highest numbers of
votes shall be elected to two-year terms.  In the 993, and quadrennially
thereafter, two Commissioners shall be elected to four-year terms.  In 1995,
and quadrennially thereafter, two Commissioners shall be elected to four-year
terms.
   “Section 3.3.  Election of Mayor.  A Mayor shall be elected in each regular
municipal election.
   “Section 3.4.  Special Elections and Referendums.  Special elections and
referendums may be held only as provided by general law or applicable local
acts of the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
 
   “Section 4.1.  Form of Government.  The Town shall operate under the
council-manager form of government, in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 7, Part 2.
   “Section 4.2.  Town Manager.  The Board shall appoint a Town Manager who
shall be responsible for the administration of all departments of the Town
government. The Town Manager shall have all the powers and duties conferred by
general law, except as expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter, and
the additional powers and duties conferred by the Board, so far as authorized
by general law.
   “Section 4.3.  Town Clerk.  The Town Manager shall appoint a Town Clerk to
keep a journal of the proceedings of the Board; to maintain official records
and documents; to give notice of meetings; and to perform such other duties
required by law or as the Board may direct.
   “Section 4.4.  Tax Collector.  The Town Manager shall appoint a Tax
Collector pursuant to G.S. 105-349 to collect all taxes owed to the Town,
subject to general law, this Charter and Town ordinances.
   “Section 4.5.  Town Attorney.  The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney
licensed to practice law in North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Town
Attorney to represent the Town, advise Town officials and perform other duties
required by law or as the Board may direct.
   “Section 4.6.  Other Administrative Officers and Employees.  The Board may
authorize other positions to be filled by appointment by the Town Manager, and
may organize the Town government as deemed appropriate, subject to the
requirements of general law.
ARTICLE V.  ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
 
   “Section 5.1.  Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores.  Alcoholic Beverage
Control Stores shall operate within the Town of Walnut Cove as provided in
Chapter 832, Session Laws of 1969, as amended by Chapter 307, Session Laws of
1973 and Chapter 289, Session Laws of 1985.”
   Section 2.  The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of
Walnut Cove and to consolidate certain acts concerning the property, affairs
and government of the Town. It is intended to continue without interruption
those provisions of prior acts which are expressly consolidated into this act,
so that all rights and liabilities which have accrued are preserved and may be
enforced.
   Section 3.  This act does not repeal or affect any acts concerning the
property, affairs or government of public schools, or acts validating official
actions, proceedings, contracts or obligations of any kind.
   Section 4.  All acts in conflict with this act are repealed. The following
acts, having served the purposes for which they were enacted or having been
consolidated into this act, are expressly repealed:
      Chapter 60, Private Laws of 1889
      Chapter 296, Private Laws of 1907
      Chapter 224, Private Laws of 1915
      Chapter 65, Private Laws of 1923
      Chapter 584, Session Laws of 1945
      Chapter 924, Session Laws of 1947
      Chapter 1139, Session Laws of 1949
      Chapter 417, Session Laws of 1971
   Section 5.  Chapter 832, Session Laws of 1969, as it applies to Walnut Cove
only, is deemed amended to change each reference to “G.S. Chapter 18,” or the
equivalent, to “G.S. Chapter 18B.” References to particular sections or
articles of former G.S. Chapter 18 are deemed amended to refer to the
provisions of current G.S. Chapter 18B which most closely correspond, and as
they may be later amended or recodified.
   Section 6.  The Mayor and Board members serving on the date of ratification
of this act shall serve until the expiration of their terms. Thereafter those
offices shall be filled as provided in Articles II and III of the Charter
contained in Section 1 of this act.
   Section 7.  This act does not affect any rights or interests which arose
under any provisions repealed by this act.
   Section 8.  All existing ordinances, resolutions and other provisions of the
Town of Walnut Cove not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall
continue in effect until repealed or amended.
   Section 9.  No action or proceeding pending on the effective date of this
act by or against the Town or any of its departments or agencies shall be
abated or otherwise affected by this act.
   Section 10.  If any provision or application of this act is held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this act
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to
this end the provisions of this act are declared to be severable.
   Section 11.  Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular
provision of the General Statutes, and such provision is later amended,
superseded or recodified, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the
amended General Statute, or to the General Statute which most clearly
corresponds to the statutory provision which is superseded or recodified.
   Section 12.  This act is effective upon ratification.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Walnut Cove shall be
designated as the Code of Walnut Cove, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Mayor and the Board of Commissioners, or
governing body, of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Stokes, North Carolina.
      GENERAL STATUTES or GS. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Walnut Cove, in the County of Stokes, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter or section or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent
ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be
prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are
readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be
specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, each violation of this code and any
other town ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor, except as otherwise
provided by statute, and violations of such provisions of this code shall be
punished by fine or imprisonment as provided by law.
   (B)   Violations of this code and any other town ordinance shall constitute
either a misdemeanor or, at the election of the town, shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty upon the issuance of a citation for said violation
as hereinafter provided. The civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15
days of the issuance of a citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt. Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision
of this code of ordinances, said civil penalties shall be in the amount of $100
for each violation and each day any single violation continues shall be a
separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this code or any other town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate
equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case,
the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as
may be appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to the application of the
town for equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this code or any other town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing
upon or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement by the General Court of Justice. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of
Justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (E)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property by closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with this code or such
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of abatement shall
not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (F)   The provision of this code and any other town ordinances may be
enforced by one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed
by this section.
   (G)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the
town, the violation of which shall incur a penalty, shall specify whether the
enforcement shall be pursuant to the civil penalty and/or criminal penal
provisions of this section.
   (H)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of the code of
ordinances, the penalty for which is a civil penalty, the Enforcement Officer
of the town shall cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator. Such
citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the section violated, the
date of the violation and shall contain an order to immediately cease the
violation. If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an
order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a reasonable
period of time must be stated in which the violation must be abated.
   (I)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days from
the date of said warning citation to the Board of Adjustment. Except in any
case where the ordinance violated, which is the subject of the warning
citation, specifically grants to the Board of Adjustment other powers in
considering appeals and such appeal is applied for, the Board of Adjustment in
considering appeals of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of
administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
Enforcement Officer has made an error in the application of the code of
ordinances, in the factual situation as it relates to the application of the
code, or both.
   (J)   Where the town determines that the period of time stated in the
original warning citation is not sufficient for abatement based upon the work
required or consent agreement, the Enforcement Official may amend the warning
citation to provide for additional time. The warning citation shall specify
that a second citation shall incur a civil penalty together with costs and
attorney fees.
   (K)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued by the Enforcement Officer of the town and either
served directly on the violator, his or her duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the town or obtained from the
violator at the time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be
deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation
shall direct the violator to appear before the Town Manager, or his or her
designee, within 15 days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay
the citation by mail. The violation for which the citation is issued must have
been corrected by the time the citation is paid, otherwise further citations
shall be issued. Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues
until the prohibited activity is ceased or abated.
   (L)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of its
issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the State
General Court of Justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney
fees and such other relief as permitted by law.
   (M)   The existing ordinances of the town, a violation of which shall
subject the offender to civil penalties and/or criminal penal provisions of
law, are as follows:
      (1)   Zoning;
      (2)   Subdivisions;
      (3)   Abandoned and junked motor vehicles;
      (4)   Public nuisances, refuse, noxious weeds and grass;
      (5)   Abandoned structures; and
      (6)   Minimum housing.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CHARTER AMENDMENTS
CHAPTER 30:  CHARTER AMENDMENTS
Section
   
30.01   Charter amendment of May 1, 1990
§ 30.01  CHARTER AMENDMENT OF MAY 1, 1990.
   (A)   Section 1.  Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of
the Town of Walnut Cove as set forth in Chapter 160-A of the 1990 Laws of North
Carolina, as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the town shall
operate under the council-manager form of government in accordance with G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2 and any Charter provisions not in conflict
therewith.
   (B)   Section 2.  Subject to any referendum petitioned for and conducted
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-103, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after May 1, 1990.
(Ord. eff. 5-1-1990)
Charter reference:
   Form of Government, see Charter, Art. IV, §
4.1
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWER USE
CHAPTER 50:  WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE
Section
Water and Sewer
   
50.01   Making application for water, sewer and garbage
   
50.02   Water/sewer connection required
   
50.03   Cross-connection prohibited
   
50.04   Separate connections required
   
50.05   Sewer connections, water connections, meters, installation and
maintenance
   
50.06   Meters restricted to employees
   
50.07   Cost of service connection
   
50.08   Repair and/or replacement of meters
   
50.09   Disclaimer of liability for service discontinuance
   
50.10   Water/sewer/garbage rates
   
50.11   Water and sewer usage measured by meters
   
50.12   Billing and payment
   
50.13   Approved payment plan
   
50.14   Limitations on terminations of utility service
   
50.15   Reinstatement of utility services
   
50.16   Unauthorized usage
   
50.17   Leaks on water line on customer’s property
   
50.18   Right of town to cut off water supply
   
50.19   Part-time services
   
50.20   Disposition of deposit
   
50.21   Customer termination of services
   
50.22   Adjustment
   
50.23   Opening of fire hydrants for private use, exceptions, procedure
   
50.24   Rolled change policy
Garbage
   
50.35   Garbage collection
   
50.36   Placement and time
   
50.37   Containers required
   
50.38   Maintenance of containers
   
50.39   Non-acceptable containers
   
50.40   Accumulation of solid waste
   
50.41   Materials prohibited
   
50.42   Limits on amount
   
50.43   Refuse generated outside town
   
50.44   Limbs and shrubs
   
50.45   Contract services and limb/shrub pickup
Water Shortage
   
50.55   Purpose
   
50.56   Definitions
   
50.57   Declaration of voluntary conservation
   
50.58   Declaration of mandatory conservation
   
50.59   Declaration of a water shortage emergency
   
50.60   Declaration of rationing
   
50.61   Objections of rationing
   
50.62   Water use rationing for residential users
   
50.63   Water use rationing for non-residential water users
   
50.64   Water use rationing for hospitals and health care facilities
   
50.65   Enforcement of water rationing
   
50.66   Shortage water rates
   
50.67   Regulations
   
50.68   Hearing Officer
 
   
50.99   Penalty
 
   
Appendix:   Water Shortage Response
WATER AND SEWER
§ 50.01  MAKING APPLICATION FOR WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE.
   All applications for town water/sewer/garbage services shall be made at the
town hall. All applications shall be properly processed. Payment of a deposit
for the services in an amount set by the Board of Commissioners shall accompany
the application for said services. Utility services shall not be provided to
any prospective residential customer if that person or persons within that
household has any outstanding and unpaid utility charges and/or installments
and surcharges arising from prior utility service with the town.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.02  WATER/SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each owner of improved property located upon or within a distance of
300 feet of any town water line shall connect the plumbing system of his or her
premises with the town water system; provided that any such owner who already
has in use a private well may, in lieu of connecting his or her premises with
the town water system, pay the minimum monthly charge established for water
services and may continue the use of the well for domestic household water use
as long as the well remains suitable for such use or for a period of ten years,
whichever comes first. Should the well cease to be suitable, said owner will be
required to connect to the town water system and will not be allowed a
replacement well.
   (B)   Each owner of improved property located upon or within a distance of
300 feet of any town sewer line shall connect the plumbing system of his or her
premises with the town sewer system; provided, that any such owner who already
has in use a septic tank approved by County Environmental Health may in lieu of
connecting his or her premises to the town sewer system pay the minimum monthly
charge established for as long as such charge is duly paid and for so long as
said septic system remains suitable for such as determined by County
Environmental Health or for a period of ten years, whichever comes first.
Should the septic system cease to be suitable, said owner will be required to
connect to the town sewer collection system and will not be allowed a
replacement septic system.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no cross-connection of the town water system with any private
well or any other source of water supply. Any person who connects his or her
premises to the town water system for domestic household water service may
continue the use of a private well for any purpose other than domestic
household water supply.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Any and every building or house abutting a water and sewer main and
requiring a water and/or sewer connection shall be separately and independently
connected and metered. In instances where there are conditions that this is not
done, the town will bill for the total number of minimums that are applicable
to the circumstance or the situation.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.05  SEWER CONNECTIONS, WATER CONNECTIONS, METERS, INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All water shall be provided with standard approved water meters,
sitters and boxes, which shall be installed and maintained by the town. They
will be placed as near as possible to the curb or property line of the property
to be served and shall be at all times under the control of the town. It is
assumed that the town has an easement to read and maintain the meter.
   (B)   Sewer connections shall be installed by the town and placed as near as
possible to the curb or to the property line of the property to be served. All
sewer service connections shall be provided with a clean-out placed near the
property line at the end of the sewer service laterals, at ground level, and
shall be maintained by the property owners.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.06  METERS RESTRICTED TO EMPLOYEES.
   No persons except town employees shall be allowed to open or enter into the
meter box. Any person(s) other than an authorized town employee that reconnects
or restores a utility service terminated pursuant to this chapter shall be in
violation of this chapter. The said reconnection shall be prima facie evidence
of an intent to violate this section by the person(s) to whose benefit it is
that such service is restored and shall require a fine.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  COST OF SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Standard residential tap fees for inside water and sewer and outside water
and sewer shall be set by the Town Board and will be available for public
inspection at the town hall. Said rates shall at all times cover material and
labor cost. In addition to the service connection cost, all applicants for new
connections to the water and/or sewer system(s) shall be required to pay a
capacity fee. This is intended to allow the town to receive a portion of the
capital capacity costs of providing a water and sewer system. Both tap and
capacity fees may be paid over a three- to four-month period of time providing
there is a signed agreement by the customer and approved by the Town Manager. A
copy of the signed agreement will be given to the customer and the original
will be kept on file at the town hall.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.08  REPAIR AND/OR REPLACEMENT OF METERS.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes and supply equipment, except those required
to be furnished by particular users of water and sewer, shall be kept in good
repair and working order by the town. The town may, at its discretion, make
repairs and replacements of the equipment. All meters over one inch in size may
be calibrated and/or replaced by the town once every two years. The expense of
such calibration and or replacement shall be borne by the user.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.09  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY FOR SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   It is expressly stipulated by and between the town and the utility customer
that no claim shall be made against the town on account of any bursting pipe,
any attachment to the utility system or for any accidental failure in the
supply of water and sewer services.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.10  WATER/SEWER/GARBAGE RATES.
   The Board shall set rates for water/sewer/garbage services and associated
fees. Said schedule of rates shall be available at the town hall for public
inspection.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.11  WATER AND SEWER USAGE MEASURED BY METERS.
   (A)   Water and sewer shall be furnished to consumers at metered rates only
except in the case of special circumstances, which may include, but are not
restricted to:
      (1)   Physical barriers temporarily blocking access to the meters;
      (2)   Natural events that cause temporary loss of access to meters such
as heavy snowfall, flooding and the like;
      (3)   Any situations that might present an imminent safety hazard to town
employees; and
      (4)   Any other situation as deemed acceptable by the Town Board.
   (B)   During such special circumstances, the town will provide customers
with an estimated bill. Estimated bills will be clearly marked as such in
writing on the bill and in town records. Adjustments will be made in the
following month’s bill to ensure that customers are fairly billed for metered
usage of service.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.12  BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Water meters shall be read according to a schedule set by the Board of
Commissioners. Payment of bills shall be due on the fifteenth of the month in
which the bill is mailed and a late charge of 10% shall be incurred on the
twentieth. A late payment charge shall be assessed only once for each bill that
is paid on or after the twentieth. Termination of services shall occur on the
twentieth of the following month, subject to the provisions of division (B) of
this section. Once services have been terminated, a reconnection fee
established by the Board must be paid and the account must be paid in full
prior to services being restored.
   (B)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the
absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure
provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no
event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.13  APPROVED PAYMENT PLAN.
   (A)   All payment plans in effect before May 1, 2007 shall remain in effect
until the balance of the customer’s account is up to date. No payment plans
shall be established for utility customers until the balance of the account is
paid in full.
   (B)   If a utility user has an up-to-date balance and will be unable to pay
the bill upcoming, he or she can request a deferred payment plan. This would
enable the customer to come in before the fifteenth due date and sign an
agreement for payment to be made over the next three months provided the bills
for the future months are paid on time. This would prevent a late charge from
being incurred. A customer would also be eligible to use the payment plan for
three one-month deferred payments in a 12-month period.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.14  LIMITATIONS ON TERMINATIONS OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall terminate utility service for non-payment of utility
charges and/or installments and surcharges only during the hours of 9:00 a.m.
to 3:30 p.m., Monday through Wednesday.
   (B)   No termination shall be permitted on a legal holiday, on a workday
before a legal holiday or on a weekend.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.15  REINSTATEMENT OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   The town shall reinstate utility service to the customer within 24 hours of
the town’s receipt of payment in full of the amount due or an approved payment
plan. Service hours of operation are from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. After 4:30
p.m., an additional $25 will be required.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.16  UNAUTHORIZED USAGE.
   (A)   Unauthorized reconnection and usage shall result in a utility bill to
be charged by the town to the utility user in proportion to the unauthorized
use plus reconnection charges.
   (B)   In the case of landlord-tenant situations, the following procedures
will apply in regards to the billing.
      (1)   The resident user of record shall be primarily responsible for
contacting the town for utility services and payment of charges, including
unauthorized usage charges as herein defined.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the landlord/landowner to notify
the town for temporary service as defined herein for instances such as clean-up
at premises.
      (3)   On rental property that is unoccupied, where the town has received
cut off notice and the meter is cut off and locked, the landlord/landowner
shall be responsible for unauthorized usage.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.17  LEAKS ON WATER LINE ON CUSTOMER’S PROPERTY.
   When it is ascertained that there is a leak on property owned or controlled
by said customer, it shall be the responsibility of the customer to locate and
repair said leak immediately. During the time the leak exists, the customer
shall pay for the amount of water wasted.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.18  RIGHT OF TOWN TO CUT OFF WATER SUPPLY.
   The town may interrupt service for tests, maintenance and repairs of the
water system. All reasonable means will be made to notify the affected customer
(s) of any anticipated interruption of service. In emergency situations, the
public will be notified as soon as possible. In the exercise of such rights,
the town shall not be liable for any damage or inconvenience suffered by any
consumer even if the town fails to give notice.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.19  PART-TIME SERVICES.
   Customers that are not year-round occupants may decide to terminate their
services for part of the year. These customers will have their meters cut off
and locked. They will still be required to pay a water and sewer availability
bill and a $30 reconnection fee when they have services reinstated.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.20  DISPOSITION OF DEPOSIT.
   The town shall apply the deposit of any customer toward the unpaid balance
of a customer only in the event that the deposit amount is greater than or
equal to the unpaid balance, and in which case the remainder of the deposit
will be refunded to the customer. A customer having an unpaid balance greater
than the deposit amount will be required to pay the unpaid balance of their
account before a deposit is refunded to them. In the case of a customer who has
moved to a different location since an initial deposit was posted, the customer
will be required to remit a new deposit for the new address. Deposits shall not
be transferred from one address to another. Furthermore, a current customer
moving to a different address during the middle of the billing cycle will be
subject to service termination at the new address if the outstanding bill from
the previous location is unpaid.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.21  CUSTOMER TERMINATION OF SERVICES.
   When a customer voluntarily wishes to end his or her public utilities with
the town, the customer shall contact the town and give the date on which he or
she requests the services to end and submit a forwarding address for the final
bill. Without a forwarding address, the town will be unable to mail any balance
due to the customer and therefore, any balance will remain with the town.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.22  ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If, subject to the procedures of division (F) below, a customer
receives a bill for abnormal water consumption, which results from, but is not
limited to, the following conditions, an adjustment can be made in the
customer’s bill. Valid conditions for issuing an adjustment include unknown
leaks, hanging commodes, a defective plumbing fixture, defective meter or burst
pipe. The customer will be required to present verification of the problem such
as a plumber’s receipt or a receipt for a purchase of materials to repair the
problem.
   (B)   If the cause is a broken pipe or leak whereby the wasted water is not
returned to the sanitary sewer system, the bill, as adjusted, shall be
calculated by:
      (1)   Determining the average water and sewer charge for the previous six
months;
      (2)   Rebate 50% of the abnormal water charge, which is determined by the
difference in the average bill for a six-month period and the excessive bill;
and
      (3)   Rebate 100% of the abnormal water charge, which is determined in
the same manner. The adjusted bill will result in the customer paying an
average water and sewer charge in addition to 50% of the excessive water
charge.
   (C)   If the cause is a defect in a plumbing fixture, such as a hanging
commode, whereby the wasted water is returned to the sanitary sewer system, the
bill, as adjusted, shall be calculated by:
      (1)   Determine the average water and sewer charge for the previous six
months; and
      (2)   Rebate 50% of the abnormal water and sewer charge, which is
determined by the difference in the average bill for six months and the
excessive bill. The adjusted bill will result in the customer paying an average
water and sewer charge in addition to 50% of the abnormal water and sewer
charge.
   (D)   If the cause is of an undetermined origin, and it does not appear upon
investigation that the occupants of the premises served were in any way at
fault for the excessive water bill, the adjusted bill shall be calculated the
same as in division (C) above.
   (E)   No reduction in a water bill shall be made for frozen pipes unless
notice is given at the town hall and the water is ordered to be cut off.
   (F)   No adjustment shall be made for a period in excess of three billing
periods and not more than one adjustment for an excessive utility bill at the
same location within a period of one year.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.23  OPENING OF FIRE HYDRANTS FOR PRIVATE USE, EXCEPTIONS, PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Fire hydrant use.
      (1)   It shall be a policy of the town to deny permission to use public
fire hydrants for construction purposes or any other purposes other than use by
the Fire Department, Public Works or Public Utilities Department or public
safety officials. Realizing, however, that construction and other uses have
need of high volumes of water, the town will grant permission for use of a
designated fire hydrant when it is determined that:
         (a)   There is not a problem meeting the town’s need for water;
         (b)   When the user has demonstrated that its truck/tanker has a
backflow prevention device that meets the town’s requirements or a way to
receive the water that would physically prevent backflow; and
         (c)   The user has demonstrated that there is not another high volume
source available.
      (2)   In order to receive permission to obtain water, the user will be
required to:
         (a)   Make application for the permit at least three days prior to
usage. Such application can be obtained from the Town Manager or Public Works
Director;
         (b)   State the number of days he or she will be using the hydrant,
the capacity of his or her truck/tanker, the estimated amount needed and how he
or she will ensure backflow prevention; and
         (c)   Make payment for use of hydrant at the rate of $25 per day for
each day used. He or she will also be billed for actual usage at a rate to be
determined by the Board.
   (B)   Town shall furnish proof of approval. When more than one truck/tanker
per user will be hauling, the town will furnish each vehicle with a copy of the
permit.
   (C)   Town to assign employee. The town will assign an employee to this
hydrant during the withdrawal process in order to ensure that the connection is
performed in a proper manner. Use of the hydrant will only be permitted between
8:30 a.m. until 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Special arrangements will
need to be made for times other than those mentioned, as well as an additional
$25 to cover additional employee costs.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24  ROLLED CHANGE POLICY.
   (A)   The town shall not accept payment for water, sewer or garbage in large
quantities of change, unless it is rolled, dated, initialed by the customer and
labeled with the customer’s phone number.
   (B)   Employees of the town shall have the authority to reject payments for
any service made with large quantities of change that are not thusly prepared.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
GARBAGE
§ 50.35  GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   Garbage collection services are provided by the town on a weekly basis.
Services are limited to household garbage only.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.36  PLACEMENT AND TIME.
   Trash containers must be placed adjacent to the street or sidewalk by 7:00
a.m. on the day of collection and no sooner than 6:30 p.m. the day before. The
containers must be removed on the same day of collection. In no instance are
containers to be placed so as to interfere with the flow of traffic or
pedestrians.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.37  CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   All persons receiving garbage collection services shall utilize the town-
provided containers in which to place solid waste.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.38  MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   Every waste container required by this subchapter shall be maintained in as
sanitary condition as possible in view of the use to which it is put and shall
be thoroughly cleansed as needed by washing, sanitizing or otherwise. All waste
containers shall be kept in good condition, and solid waste shall not be placed
in any container that is so constructed or is so defective that the contents
leak or spill.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.39  NON-ACCEPTABLE CONTAINERS.
   Any container, other than the aforementioned approved containers, shall not
be used for the storage and collection of solid waste for town collection, this
including, but not limited to, cardboard boxes and barrels.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.40  ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Each resident receiving garbage services shall have a town-provided
waste container adequate to contain the solid waste generated at said
residence, which accumulates between periods of removal from the premises, and
shall place and keep all solid waste therein until disposal. Solid waste may
not accumulate outside of the containers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to throw or to cause to accumulate
onto the streets, sidewalks or private property any solid waste or any other
substance that will render the street or premises unclean or unsightly or
unsafe to any person or vehicle using the streets or liable to injuriously
affect the health or safety of the community.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41  MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   Materials prohibited from being placed out for collection include, but are
not limited to, large rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs, bulky
materials such as household appliances, furniture and mattress and box springs,
discarded petroleum products, waste from building materials and heavy objects.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007; Ord. O-2010-01, passed
6-1-2010)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42  LIMITS ON AMOUNT.
   Residential pick up is limited to one 96-gallon container per week.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.43  REFUSE GENERATED OUTSIDE TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw or cast or dump any
solid waste or refuse generated outside of the town within the public trash
bins on town streets or rights-of-way, at residences within the town or in bulk
containers located at businesses within the town.
(Ord. O-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007; Ord. O-2010-01, passed
6-1-2010)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.44  LIMBS AND SHRUBS.
   The town may collect limbs and shrubs from residential properties provided
that they are placed at the edge of the property within the town’s right-of-
way. Limbs and shrubs should be cut to lengths no greater than five feet. Brush
pickup shall be provided on an as-needed basis, and at the earliest convenience
of the Public Works Department. The Town Manager shall be authorized to
promulgate rules and regulations with respect to limb and shrub collection,
including suspension of such services in the event of extreme conditions or
emergencies. Such rules and regulations shall be intended to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, to promote good sanitation and cleanliness, and to
protect the environment and shall be enforceable as if fully set forth.
(Ord. O-2010-1, passed 6-1-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.45  CONTRACT SERVICES AND LIMB/SHRUB PICKUP.
   Town residents who have limb work or hedge trimming services performed by a
professional tree or lawn service company are expected to have that company
remove any debris resulting from said work.
(Ord. O-2010-1, passed 6-1-2010)
WATER SHORTAGE
§ 50.55  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the town in the event a
shortage is declared.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.56  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOTMENT.  The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over any
applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
subchapter.
   ANY WATER.  Any type of water, including fresh water brackish water,
wastewater or reclaimed water.
   BRACKISH WATER.  Water containing more than 1,000 parts per million of
dissolved salts.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person using water for any purpose from the town’s water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or in this
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made st the site of delivery.
   EMERGENCY.  That water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal
needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE.  The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this subchapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   FRESH WATER.  Water withdrawn from surface or groundwater which has not been
previously used, other than brackish water.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION.  That raw water supplies (such as, stream flow,
reservoir levels or groundwater levels) are consistently below seasonal
averages, and if they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal
needs.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER.  Commercial, industrial, institutional, public and
all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   RATIONING.  Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient wafer is available to
preserve public health and safety.
   RECLAIMED WATER.  Wastewater which has been treated to allow reuse.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER.  Any customers who receive water service for a single
or multi-family dwelling unit. The term RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER does not include
educational or other institutions, hotels, motels or similar commercial
establishments.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION.  The temporary suspension of water supply, or
reduction of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer,
portion of a water supply, or entire system.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.  Conditions exist which indicate the potential for
serious water supply shortages.
   WASTE OF WATER.  Includes, but is not limited to permitting water to escape
down a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain, or failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   WASTEWATER.  Water which has been previously used for industrial, municipal,
domestic or other purpose, and has not been returned to the surface or
groundwater source.
   WATER.  Water available to the town, treatment by virtue of its water rights
or withdrawal permit or any treated water introduced by the town into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale.
   WATER USE CLASSES. 
      (1)   CLASS 1: ESSENTIAL WATER USES.
         (a)   Domestic use.  Water necessary to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation.
         (b)   Health care facilities.  Patient care and rehabilitation,
including swimming pools used for patient care and rehabilitation.
         (c)   Public use.
            1.   Fire hydrants;
               A.   Firefighting; and
               B.   Certain testing and drills by the Fire Department if
performed in the interest of public safety and if approved by the municipal
governing body.
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants: as needed to ensure public
health and safety and if approved by the municipal governing body.
      (2)   CLASS 2: SOCIALLY OR ECONOMICALLY IMPORTANT USES OF WATER.
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3:
            1.   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom and laundry use;
            2.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            3.   Watering of trees where necessary to preserve them.
         (b)   Commercial, agricultural, industrial and institutional uses.
            1.   Outdoor commercial watering (public or private) using
conservation measures and to the extent that sources of water other than fresh
water are not available to use;
            2.   Irrigation for commercial vegetable gardens and fruit orchards
or the maintenance of livestock;
            3.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock;
            4.   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state
or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            5.   Use of fresh water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
vegetation following earth-moving, where such vegetation is required by law or
regulation;
            6.   Watering of golf course greens;
            7.   Filling and operation of swimming pools:
               A.   Residential pools which serve more than 25 dwelling units;
               B.   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation; or
               C.   Municipal pools.
            8.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            9.   Commercial laundromats;
            10.   Restaurants, clubs and eating places;
            11.   Air conditioning:
               A.   Refilling for start up at the beginning of the cooling
season;
               B.   Make-up of water during the cooling season; or
               C.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
            12.   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
      (3)   CLASS 3: NON-ESSENTIAL USES OF WATER.
         (a)   Ornamental purposes: fountains, reflecting pools and artificial
waterfalls.
         (b)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private):
            1.   Gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens), playing
fields and other recreational areas;
            2.   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools which
serve fewer than 25 dwellings;
            3.   Non-commercial washing of motor vehicles;
            4.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places except by
specific request; or
            5.   Air conditioning: refilling cooling towers after draining
except as specified in Class 1.
         (c)   Public use:
            1.   Fire hydrants: any purpose, including use of sprinkler caps
and testing fire apparatus and for Fire Department drills, except as listed in
Class 1; or
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as listed in Class 1.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.57  DECLARATION OF VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the Town Manager is informed by the Public Works Director that
either the public water supply is limited or that a potential shortage of raw
water supply is indicated, the Town Manager shall be empowered to declare that
voluntary conservation conditions exist. The Public Works Director shall
monitor the daily supply of water and the demand upon that supply. In addition,
the Town Manager or his or her designee is authorized to call upon all water
customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures as outlined in the
Appendix of this chapter to limit water use (especially Category 3: non-
essential uses) and eliminate the waste of water. The declaration of voluntary
conservation shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
area which qualifies under G.S. § 1-597, and may be publicized through the
general news media, radio, television or any other appropriate method for
making such information public.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.58  DECLARATION OF MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the Town Manager is informed by the Public Works Director that
either the drinking water supply is limited or that raw water supplies are
consistently below seasonal averages, and if this supply continues to decline
it may not be adequate to meet the town’s normal needs, the Town Manager is
empowered to declare that mandatory conservation conditions exist. In addition,
the Town Manager or his or her designee is authorized to call upon all water
customers to employ mandatory water conservation measures as outlined in the
Appendix of this chapter. The town shall continue to encourage voluntary water
conservation measures defined under the voluntary conservation declaration, and
further shall impose a ban on water uses for the duration of the shortage as
defined in the Appendix. These restrictions shall continue until it is ended by
the announcement of return-to-normal conditions by the town. The declaration of
mandatory conservation shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the area which qualifies under G.S. § 1-537, and may be publicized through
the general news media, radio, television or any other appropriate method for
making such information, public.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.59  DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the town finds that raw water supplies are
below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare that a water shortage emergency exists.
Class 1, essential uses shall be identified, in specific, as targets for
voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all Class 2, socially or economically
important uses shall be banned in addition to the Class 3, non-essential uses.
These restrictions shall continue until the emergency is declared ended by the
governing body. Publication of notices of these conditions shall follow the
provisions in §
50.57 of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.60  DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   Whenever the governing body of the town has declared a water shortage
emergency and finds a need to provide for the equitable distribution of
critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand on limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to provide for
mandatory rationing by adoption of an ordinance.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.61  OBJECTIVES OF RATIONING.
   An ordinance that provides for mandatory rationing shall state findings
that:
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation and to provide fire protection service.
   (B)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step along a
continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should shortage
continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be emphasized
that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid and
attainable goal reflective of the conditions which currently exist.
   (C)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this chapter
depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency area.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.62  WATER USE RATIONING FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   Metered residential water customers and allotments:
   (A)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be required to reduce their daily
water usage to a level set by the town in a water-use rationing situation. This
level may be determined by either a gallon per day rate or a rate based on a
percentage of normal water use levels. The Town Board of Commissioners shall
have the authority to determine the amount of water rationed to each household
based upon the severity of the water shortage emergency.
   (C)   (1)   If it is found that the residential water allotment provided
under this section would create an extraordinary hardship for individual
customers, as in the case of special health related requirements, a revised
allotment for the particular customer may be established.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such an exemption or
variance may file a complaint with the Town Manager (or Clerk) in accordance
with the town’s normal administrative procedures.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.63  WATER USE RATIONING FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL WATER USERS.
   (A)   Non-residential customers include commercial, industrial, public and
all other such users with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   (B)   Non-residential water customers shall further reduce their water usage
to 40 gallons per person per day or to 50% of normal use levels during the
rationing period.
   (C)   It is the primary responsibility of each non-residential water
customer to meet the mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner
possible, including limitation of operating hours or days if necessary.
   (D)   The town will establish a water allotment for each non-residential
water customers, based upon a required further reduction water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer in effect, or the last recorded use level if
no meter readings record the rate of the customers use.
   (E)   Each non-residential water user shall provide access to town personnel
for the purpose of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
subchapter. All reasonable efforts will be made to contact customers to arrange
for access.
   (F)   (1)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be
obtained without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and
safety, the nonresidential customer may apply to the town for a variance. For
these purposes, EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent damage to property or
an economic loss which is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne
by other water users subject to this water rationing ordinance, if the further
reduction would cause an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or safety, a
variance may be granted by the Town Manager (or Clerk) and a revised water use
reduction requirement for the particular customer may be established.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance may
file a complaint with the Town Manager (or Clerk) in accordance with
established procedures.
   (G)   The town will provide each non-residential customer with suggested
means to reduce usage levels. See Appendix in this chapter.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.64  WATER USE RATIONING FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and non-residential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the institution.
   (B)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents
to achieve a further reduction in the institution’s water usage.
   (C)   The town will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels. See Appendix in this chapter.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.65  ENFORCEMENT OF WATER RATIONING.
   (A)   The town or its water utility will have primary responsibility for
monitoring of compliance with the water rationing ordinance.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementation of temporary
service interruptions:
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this subchapter, the town is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement temporary service
interruption to all or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed
appropriate, when any and/or all of the following conditions are determined to
exist:
         (a)   The mandated reduction in system-wide usage has not been
achieved;
         (b)   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; and/or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   (a)   In the event it is determined that temporary service
interruptions are necessary, the town shall notify its customers through the
public media (newspapers, radio and television), at least one day prior to the
temporary service interruptions, that a planned, temporary service interruption
is to be imposed. Such notice shall:
            1.   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruption will occur;
            2.   State the time(s) when such planned, temporary service
interruptions will commence and the time(s) such interruption will cease;
            3.   State whether the planned, temporary service interruptions are
to be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and, if only part(s) of
the system will experience planned, temporary service interruptions, identify
geographic boundaries within which such interruptions will occur; and
            4.   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the period(s) of such interruptions and
for such additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to
the system.
         (b)   When practical, the town will attempt to notice all residents of
such service interruptions by first-class mail.
      (3)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized and required by this subchapter, the town must provide for the
continued delivery of water to health care facilities within the area(s)
affected by such interruptions, by means of any adequate, alternative delivery
measures that may be necessary.
      (4)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is implemented, the
town must make provisions, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of
such water as may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   Any residential or non-residential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to the
following excess-use civil penalties:  Excess-use civil penalties will be
collected based on the amount by which a customer’s use exceeds the water
allotments established pursuant to the local water rationing declaration,
computed in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Excess Usage Per Month Civil Penalty for Excess
First 2,000 gallons or portion thereof            $50 per 1,000 gallons
Each additional 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof $100 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (D)   In addition to the excess-use civil penalty, non-compliance with the
water rationing provisions of this subchapter will result in the following:
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
      (2)   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours, or, if the
customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the customer’s
service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt
or shut off and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor,
shall be assessed to the water customer. Before service to an individual may be
terminated under this provision, actual notice of the intent to discontinue
shall be given, which shall include notice that the customer may appear at
designated time and place (within 24 hours) for an informal hearing to show why
service should not be discontinued.
   (E)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this subchapter.
   (F)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an excess-use civil penalty or other remedy for non-compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter may proceed in accordance with the
following provisions: the town shall provide an opportunity for the customer or
aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a violation, or provide evidence of
circumstances beyond the customer’s control which resulted in the violation. A
record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept, and a written
notice of the town’s final decision and action in such cases shall be provided
to the customer or aggrieved party.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.66  SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage, the governing body of the
town shall have the power to adopt shortage water rates by ordinance designed
to conserve water supplies. Such rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block rates);
   (B)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate);
   (C)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
   (D)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specific levels.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.67  REGULATIONS.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this subchapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
subchapter shall be subject to the following procedures:
   (A)   If the Mayor, Manager, Water Superintendent, or other municipal
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter or a water supply shortage resolution learns or any violation or any
water use restriction imposed pursuant to this subchapter, a written notice of
the record shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and
mailed to the customer of record and to any other person known to the town who
is responsible for the violation or its correction. Said notice shall describe
the violation and order that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or
within such specified time as the town determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. The order is not complied with in the time specified, the town
may terminate water service to the customer subject the following procedures:
      (1)   The town shall give the customer a second notice accompanied by a
$100 fine imposed. The violation is not abated and the fine is not paid within
72 hours, the town shall disconnect water service.
      (2)   The customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by
requesting a hearing scheduled before the town governing body or a municipal
official designated as a hearing officer by the governing body;
      (3)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
      (4)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A). In the event of subsequent violation
within a six-month period, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second
violation and $300 for each additional violation.
   (C)   Any customers may also be charged with violation of this subchapter
and prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged and found guilty of
violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for each
violation shall be a maximum fine of $100 or imprisonment for not more than 30
days.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.68  HEARING OFFICER.
   The Town Manager is hereby appointed as a hearing officer for the purpose of
conducting hearings and making findings of fact pursuant to §
50.67.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
50.06 shall be fined $50. If payment is not made within 72 hours, this will be
considered as a criminal matter and legal action will be taken. The person
will, in addition to the fine, be responsible for paying all court costs.
   (C)   Any person using a public fire hydrant without first having complied
with §
50.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and in addition to any penalties
provided for herein, subject to fine and imprisonment as provided by law. In
addition to the criminal penalty specified herein, any person withdrawing water
from a public fire hydrant without first obtaining the proper permit shall be
subject to a fee of $100 per day, per hydrant, per truck and the fee to be in
the nature of a civil penalty under the provisions of G.S. § 160A-175(c).
   (D)   In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution, violation of §§
50.55 through
50.68 may subject the offender to civil penalties in the amounts provided or
otherwise an amount of $50 per day, collectible in a civil action in the nature
of debt.
(Ord. 0-2007-16, passed 5-1-2007; Ord. passed 8-7-2007; Ord. O-2008-1, passed
1-3-2008)
APPENDIX:  WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
Conservation Measures
   Direct users to adopt the following conservation measures:
Indoor Residential Use:
   Conservation for voluntary and mandatory conservation phases
   •   Use dishwashers only when they are full. Washing dishes by hand (don’t
let the tap run!) Saves about 25 gallons
   •   Adjust water level on clothes washing machines, if possible. Use full
loads only, if not adjustable.
   •   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth and the like. Saves about five
gallons per day.
   •   Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank displacement
inserts. A plastic jug filled with water may often be used as an alternative.
DO NOT USE BRICKS - they disintegrate when soaked and the resulting grit
hinders closing of the flap valve.
   •   Do not use the toilet as a trash can.
   •   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
   •   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking.
   •   Find and fix leaks in faucets and water-using appliances. Faucets can
usually be fixed cheaply and quickly by replacing washers.
   •   Adapt plumbing with flow-restricting or other water-saving devices.
These are usually inexpensive and easy to install.
   •   Learn to read your water meter so you can judge how much water you use
and what difference conservation makes.
   •   Take shorter showers and shallow-baths. Saves about 25 gallons.
   •   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses about five
gallons (two to three if you have water saving toilets).
   •   Don’t use a garbage disposal.
   •   Use non-phosphate detergent and save laundry water for lawns and plants.
   Conservation for emergency conservation or rationing phase (in addition to
measures listed above)
   •   Turn off shower while soaping up.
   •   Use disposable eating utensils.
Outdoor Residential Use
   Conservation for normal conditions and voluntary conservation phase lawns
   •   Water before 10:00 a.m. to prevent evaporation which occurs during the
hottest part of the day. Morning is better than evening, when the dampness
encourages growth of fungus.
   •   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs back when
stepped on does not need water.
   •   Water thoroughly, not frequently: long enough to soak roots. A light
sprinkling evaporates quickly and encourages shallow root systems. Water slowly
to avoid runoff.
   •   Don’t let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary. In an hour, 600
gallons can be wasted.
   •   Allow maximum of one inch of water per week on your lawn. To measure,
place cake tins outside to collect rain and water from sprinklers.
   •   Use pistol-grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering flowers
and shrubs.
   •   Aerate lawns by punching holes five inches apart. This allows water to
reach roots rather than run off surfaces.
   •   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
   •   Avoid watering on windy days when the wind not only blows water off
target, but also causes excess evaporation.
   •   Keep sprinkler heads clean to prevent uneven watering.
   •   Adjust hose to simulate a gentle rain. Sprinklers that produce a fine
mist waste water through. 
   •   Know how to turn off an automatic sprinkler system in case of rain.
   •   Use an alarm clock or stove timer to remind you to shut off sprinklers
that don’t have timers.
   Vegetables and flower gardens
   •   Water deeply, slowly and weekly. Most vegetables require moisture to a
depth of six to eight inches.
   •   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
   •   Keep weeds out to reduce competition for water.
   •   Put the water where you want it and avoid evaporation by using soil-
soakers or slow-running hoses, not sprinklers.
   Trees and shrubs
   •   Water deeply using a soil-soaker or drip-irrigation.
   •   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by digging with
a trowel.
   •   Mulch to reduce evaporation. A 2" to 3" layer of wood chips, pine
needles, grass clippings or straw keeps the soil cool in summer.
   •   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
   •   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in shade.
   •   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
   •   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a plant’s need
for water.
   •   Postpone planting until fall or spring when there is generally less need
for water.
   •   Install trickle-drip irrigation systems close to the roots of your
plants. By dripping water slowly, the system doesn’t spray water in to the air.
Use soil probes for large trees.
   •   Water when cloudy, at night, or even when a light rain is falling.
Outdoor Residential Use
   Conservation for voluntary conservation phase (in addition to measures
listed above)
   •   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
   •   Limit car washing.
   •   Be ready to catch rainfall that occurs. Place containers under drain,
spouts.
   •   Use leftover household water if available.
   •   Consider delaying the seeding or sodding of new lawns.
   •   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing water
bills for summer and winter.
   Conservation for mandatory conservation phase (in addition to measures
listed above)
   •   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts of
water on an individual basis only.
   •   Do not water lawns and inedible plants.
   •   Do not use sprinklers.
Most outdoor watering is prohibited under emergency conservation conditions.
Hospital and Health Care Facility Use
   •   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing the linens, and the like
only when necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
   •   Use disposable food service items.
   •   Eliminate, postpone or reduce, as they may be appropriate, elective
surgical procedures curing the period of emergency.
Industrial Use
   •   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment. Give
special attention to equipment connected directly to water lines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners and furnaces.
   •   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are shut off
completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
   •   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water required
to achieve its stated purpose.
   •   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible; implement
lower water levels wherever possible.
   •   For processing, cooling and other uses, either re-use water or use water
from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
   •   Advise employees, students, patients, customers and other users not to
flush toilets after every use. Install toilet tank displacement inserts; place
flow restrictors in shower heads and faucets; close down automatic flushes
overnight.
   •   Install automatic flushing valves to use as little water as possible or
to cycle at longer intervals.
   •   Place water-saving posters and literature where employees, students,
patients, customers and the like will have access to them.
   •   Check meters on a frequent basis to determine consumptive patterns.
   •   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008)
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
I.   Authorization
   The Town Manager shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined in Section IV are met. In
his or her absence, the ORC will assume this role.
II.   Notification
   The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, notices in water bills. Required
water shortage response measures will be communicated through PSA announcements
on local radio and cable stations. Declaration of emergency water restrictions
or water rationing will be communicated to all customers by telephone.
III.   Levels of Response
   Five levels of water shortage response are outlined in the table below. The
five levels of water shortage response are: voluntary reductions, mandatory
reductions I and II, emergency reductions, and water rationing. A detailed
description of each response level and corresponding water reduction measures
follow below.
 
Stage Response                Description
                              Water users are encouraged to reduce their water
1     Voluntary reductions    use and improve water use efficiency; however, no
                              penalties apply for noncompliance. Water supply
                              conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
                              Water users must abide required water use
                              reduction and efficiency measures; penalties
2     Mandatory reductions I  apply for noncompliance. Water supply conditions
                              are significantly lower than the seasonal norm
                              and water shortage conditions are expected to
                              persist.
3     Mandatory reductions II Same as in Stage 2
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
4     Emergency reductions    diminished and pose an imminent threat to human
                              health or environmental integrity.
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
5     Water rationing         diminished and remaining supplies must be
                              allocated to preserve human health and
                              environmental integrity.
 
   In Stage 1, voluntary reductions, all water users will be asked to reduce
their normal water use by 5%. Customer education and outreach programs will
encourage water conservation and efficiency measures including: irrigating
landscapes a maximum of one-inch per week; preventing water waste, runoff and
watering impervious surfaces; watering plants deeply to encourage root growth;
washing only full loads in clothes and dishwashers; using spring-loaded nozzles
on garden hoses; and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
   In Stage 2, mandatory reductions, all customers are expected to reduce their
water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month’s water bill in addition
to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions, the following
restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to a half-inch per week between 8:00
p.m. and 8:00 a.m.; outdoor use of drinking water for washing impervious
surfaces is prohibited; and all testing and training purposes requiring
drinking water (such as, fire protection) will be limited.
   In Stage 3, mandatory reductions II, customers must continue actions from
all previous stages and further reduce water use by 20% compared to their
previous month’s water bill All non-essential uses of drinking water are banned
and garden and landscape irrigation, must be reduced to the minimum amount
necessary for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a drought surcharge of 1.5
times the normal water rate applies.
   In Stage 4, emergency reductions, customers must continue all actions from
previous stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to their
previous month’s water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to
protect public health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase
to two times the normal water rate.
   The goal of Stage 5, water rationing, is to provide drinking water to
protect public health (such as, residences, residential health care facilities
and correctional facilities). In Stage 5, all customers are only permitted to
use water at the minimum required for public health protection. Firefighting is
the only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for distributing
potable water will be announced according to Walnut Cove’s Emergency Response
Plan. Drought surcharges increase to five times the normal water rate.
IV.   Triggers
   Walnut Cove’s water source is groundwater. The following measurements of
well pumping times and well levels in relationship to pump intake levels
trigger entry into corresponding wafer restriction stages.
 
Stage Well Operating Conditions
      Pumping time >10 hours
1     20% reduction in seasonal normal distance from static water level and
      pump intake
      20% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping time >12 hours
2     40% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
      40% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping time >14 hours
3     60% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
      60% increase pumping time for same output
4     Pumping time >20 hours
      80% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
5     Water level at pump intake elevation
 
   Return to Normal
   When water shortage conditions have abated and the situation is returning to
normal, water conservation measures employed during each phase should be
decreased in reverse order of implementation. Permanent measures directed
toward long-term monitoring and conservation should be implemented or continued
so that the community will be in a better position to prevent shortages and
respond to recurring water shortage conditions.
V.   Enforcement
   The provisions of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by town
personnel and local law enforcement. Violators may be reported to the town’s
phone line. Citations are assessed according to the following schedule
depending on the number of prior violations and current level of water
shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level  First Violation Second Violation   Third Violation
Voluntary reductions  N/A             N/A                N/A
Mandatory reductions  Warning         $250               Discontinuation of
(Stages 2 and 3)                                         service
Emergency reductions  $250            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      service            service
Water rationing       $500            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      service            service
 
   Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages 3, 4 and 5.
VI.   Public Comment
   All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be published at is st 30
days prior to an adoption vote by Walnut Cove’s Town Commissioners.
VII.   Variance Protocols
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the town
hall. All applications must be submitted to the town hall for review by the
Town Manager or his or her designee. A decision to approve or deny individual
variance requests will be determined within two weeks of submittal after
careful consideration of the following criteria: impact on water demand,
expected duration, alternative source options, social and economic importance,
purpose (such as, necessary use of drinking water) and the prevention of
structural damage.
VIII.   Effectiveness
   The effectiveness of the Walnut Cove water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous years seasonal data.
IX.   Revision
   The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every five years
in conjunction with the updating of our local water supply plan. Further, a
water shortage response planning work group will review procedures following
each emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to
the plan to Walnut Cove’s Town Commissioners. The Town of Walnut Cove ORC is
responsible for initiating all subsequent revisions. All subsequent revisions
to the draft plan will be published at least 30 days prior to an adoption vote
by Walnut Cove’s Town Commissioners.
(Ord. O-2008-1, passed 1-3-2008; Ord. O-2010-22, passed 11-4-2010)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
51.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.017   Local limits
   
51.018   State requirements
   
51.019   Right of revision
   
51.020   Dilution
   
51.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
51.022   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
51.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
51.035   Purpose
   
51.036   User charges
   
51.037   Surcharges
   
51.038   Pretreatment program administrative costs
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance
   
51.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
51.051   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
51.065   Baseline monitoring reports
   
51.066   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
51.067   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
51.068   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.069   Reports of changed conditions
   
51.070   Reports of potential problems
   
51.071   Reports from unpermitted users
   
51.072   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.073   Notification of discharge of hazardous waste
   
51.074   Analytical requirements
   
51.075   Sample collection
   
51.076   Timing
   
51.077   Record keeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
51.090   Monitoring facilities
   
51.091   Inspection and sampling
   
51.092   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
51.105   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
51.120   Administrative remedies
   
51.121   Other available remedies
   
51.122   Remedies nonexclusive
   
51.123   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
51.135   Upset
   
51.136   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
51.137   Bypass
Fats, Oils and Grease
   
51.150   Scope and purpose
   
51.151   Definitions
   
51.152   Grease interceptor installation, maintenance, recordkeeping and grease
removal
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town
and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act and the general pretreatment regulations (40
C.F.R. Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting the
general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system. The provisions of this chapter are intended to supplant and replace in
their entirety the former sewer use ordinance in effect as of the date of this
enactment. The provisions of this chapter do not affect any act heretofore
done, any liability incurred, any right accrued or vested or any suit or
prosecution instituted or pending as of such date. Except as otherwise provided
herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW
Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other town personnel. By
discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system, industrial users
located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms and conditions
established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement actions or
orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.002  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Environmental
Management of the State Department of Environment, Health and Natural
Resources, or his or her designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000
(in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his or her designee.
         (d)   The individual described in divisions (a), (b) and (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
general responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures,
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (for example,
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge of the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b) or (d) of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1317), into the POTW, including holding tank waste discharged into the system.
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes, operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or non-
discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
specified applicable state and federal statues, regulations or permits. The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) (48 U.S.C. §§ 690 et seq. ), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more
stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of
disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA. In
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
1, Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from the EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
51.015 and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after
the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under § 307(c)
provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes if the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (a)1., (a)2. or (a)3. above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase, or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G. S. § 143-215.1.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into water of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW’S NPDES or non-discharge permit, or a downstream
water quality standard.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The Town of Walnut Cove Town Manager.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. Part 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
Part 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards and local limits.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are by contract or agreement with the town or in any other way, users of the
town POTW.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonable be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater
disposal system who:
         (a)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 50,000 gallons
or more;
         (b)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving
the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment
standard; or
         (d)   If found by the town, the Division of Environmental Management
or the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the
potential for impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industrial users, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge,
the system’s effluent quality or compliance with any pretreatment standards or
requirements.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE. A status of
noncompliance defined as follows:
         (a)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits:
            1.   Chronic violations. Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit in a six-month period;
            2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations. Thirty-three
percent or more of the measurements are more than the TRC times the limit
(maximum or average) in a six-month period. There are two groups of TRCs: for
conventional pollutants BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, TRC = 1.4; for all
other pollutants TRC = 1.2;
            3.   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit average or daily
maximum that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in combination
with other discharges, interference or pass through; or endangered the health
of the sewage treatment plant personnel or the public; and
            4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment and has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
         (b)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (c)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date;
         (d)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (e)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be significant.
      SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge stands in §
51.015.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1967.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
is contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
51.051.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa. Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or
discretionary. The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural
and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its
use.
   (C)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
G.S.   North Carolina General Statutes
gpd    Gallons per day
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollution discharge elimination system
O & M  Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS    Total suspended solids
TKN    Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.015  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. Part
261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference (but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch) in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 (or more than) or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
51.023;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish receiving waters for or aesthetic quality or impair any
designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director/Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2b
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and
      (23)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Discharge. Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes
prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that they could be discharged in the municipal wastewater system. All floor
drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the
industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   POTW Director action. When the POTW Director determines that a user(s)
is contributing to the POTW any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass
through, the POTW Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
51.120; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
51.050 and
51.051 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
Parts 405 through 471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. Part 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. Part 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. Part 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 403.15.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.017  LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   To implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in
this chapter, industrial user-specific local limits will be developed ensuring
that the POTW’s maximum allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for
particular pollutants of concern for each industrial user.
   (B)   Where specific local limits are not contained for a given parameter or
pollutant in an industrial user permit, the following limits will apply to all
users:
0.003 mg/l  Arsenic
250 mg/l    BOD
0.003 mg/l  Cadmium
0.061 mg/l  Copper
0.041 mg/l  Cyanide
0.049 mg/l  Lead
0.0003 mg/l Mercury
0.021 mg/l  Nickel
0.005 mg/l  Silver
40 mg/l     TKN
0.05 mg/l   Total chromium
250 mg/l    TSS
0.175 mg/l  Zinc
 
   (C)   Industrial user-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of
concern shall be included in wastewater permits and are considered pretreatment
standards. The POTW Director may impose mass limits in addition to, or in place
of, the concentration-based limits above.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.019  RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
51.015, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.4.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.020  DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.021  PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter, and wastewater permits issued under §
51.051, and shall comply with all national categorical pretreatment standards,
local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
51.015 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state or the POTW
Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the POTW Director
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand: except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at his or her expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.022  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the POTW Director shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the POTW Director may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
51.070; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.023  HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
51.015 through
51.022 or any other requirements established by the town. The POTW Director may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits. Only
septic tank sludge that is generated within the town limits will be accepted
for disposal in the wastewater treatment system of the town. The hauler must
identify the source of each load disposed of.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director/Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
The POTW Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste.
The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements
of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. passed 3-6-2001)
FEES
§ 51.035  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the town wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
in the town schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.036  USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited to,
person, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect at least the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the POTW,
and will make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for adjustments in
the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.037  SURCHARGES.
   (A)   All industrial users of the POTW are subject to industrial waste
surcharges on discharges which exceed the following levels:
 
350 mg/l BOD
200 mg/l TSS
 
   (B)   The amount of surcharge will be based upon the mass emission rate (in
pounds per day) discharged above the levels listed above. The amount charged
per pound of excess will be set forth in the schedule of charges and fees.
      (1)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
         (a)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town;
         (b)   If required by the town or at the individual discharger’s
option, other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of
wastewater discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely
located, and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans
approved by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at
the user’s expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town;
and
         (3)   Where any user procures all or part of this water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
      (2)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples
collected and analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner
as to be representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using
procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
      (3)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director, or his or her
duly appointed representatives, shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.038  PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 51.050  WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town when requested by the POTW
Director. A user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 90 days of the request. The POTW Director is authorized
to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051  WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial users
who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the discretion
of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for
non-significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) above. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in §§
51.015 through
51.023, any of the priority pollutants (§ 307(a) of the Act) which the
applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW.
Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40
C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed nine months; and
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the POTW
Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H .0908(a), as
outlined in §
51.065; and
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the town
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (E)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge: limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above and the town’s general permit conditions into
a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Fact sheet. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the application
shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant and the
approval authority and shall be made available to the public upon request. The
contents of such fact sheets shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points;
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any
limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or
suspected present; and
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations, including the
documentation of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to division (J) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
51.120;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
51.120; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Hearings.
      (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied,
or is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
51.999, or one issued an administrative order under §
51.120 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing officer
designated by the POTW Director upon making written demand, identifying the
specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30 days following
receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty assessment or
administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within the time
specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The Hearing Officer
shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty or order within 45
days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW Director
shall transmit a copy of the Hearing Officer’s decision by registered or
certified mail.
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms of conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearings. Any decision of a Hearing Officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (H)(1) above may be
appealed to the Board of Commissioners upon filing a written demand within ten
days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this division
(H)(2) shall be conducted in accordance with division (H)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (H)
(2) above, the Board of Commissioners shall prepare an official record of the
case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision
of the Board of Commissioners is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted
under division (H)(2) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision,
by filing a written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by
registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with
the Superior Court of the county along with a copy to the town. Within 30 days
after receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Board of
Commissioners shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified
copy of the official record.
   (I)   Permit modification.
      (1)   (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same
procedural requirements as the issuance of permits except as follows:
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
timeframe prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B) above, the user
shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (J)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   Notification requirements for slug load; and
         (f)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices and the like designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of spill control plans and other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine discharges;
         (e)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (f)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (g)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (h)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedules;
         (i)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (j)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (k)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (l)   Requirements of maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
51.077 and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto;
         (m)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
         (n)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
         (o)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive, accidental
or slug discharges or any discharge which could cause any problems to the
system;
         (p)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
         (q)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (K)   Permit durations. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (L)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
   (M)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with §
51.051 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.065  BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. Part 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of its
discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. Part 403.6(E);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
51.074; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
51.075.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O & M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in §
51.066; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.051(C).
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.066  COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
51.065(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.067  REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD
DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §§
51.065(B)(4) through (B)(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
Part 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s
long-term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.051(C).
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.068  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
51.051(C).
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
51.074, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.069  REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the POTW Director, in writing, of any planned
significant changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the
nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.051.
   (B)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.051 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, SIGNIFICANT CHANGES include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater above permitted limitations
and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.070  REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director
of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to the chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.071  REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.072  NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. The user is not required to resample if the POTW Director monitors
at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the POTW Director samples
between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the results of
this sampling.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.073  NOTIFICATION OF DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town prohibits the discharge of hazardous waste.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.074  ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If in
40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by the EPA.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.075  SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the POTW Director may
authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.076  TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States postal service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.077  RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 51.090  MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the town.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.091  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town approval authority and EPA, or his or her
representative, ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of his or her duties. The town approval
authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring
and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which
would require proper identification and clearance before entry into his or her
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her security
guards so that presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the
town’s approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay,
for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the
POTW Director’s, approval authority’s or EPA’s access to the user’s premises
shall be a violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial
or access.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092  SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the POTW Director, approval authority or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the POTW Director,
approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the county
court.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 51.105  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.120  ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit or
any prohibition, limitation or requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon
such a person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30
days from the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan
for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the
user. Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for
any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter, or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this division is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
51.999, nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
51.051(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents, or may present, an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
of this chapter, or applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to
having his or her permit terminated:
      (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (G)   Notification. Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the
proposed termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an
opportunity to show cause under this section why the proposed action should not
be taken.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.121  OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   Remedies, in addition to those mentioned in this chapter, are available to
the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination against a
noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not limited
to:
   (A)   Criminal violation. The District Attorney for the county judicial
district may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director,
through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court Division of the
General Court of Justice for the issuance of a restraining order or a
preliminary and permanent injunction, which restrains or compels the activities
in question;
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply; and
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter, or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject
to the provisions of the town code of ordinances, Chapter 93 governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement procedures: criminal penalties, see G.S. § 143-215.6B
§ 51.122  REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this subchapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town response plan. However, the POTW Director may take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the POTW
Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant user.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.123  ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 51.135  UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) below are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.136  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
51.015(A), of the specific prohibitions in §§
51.015(B)(2), (B)(3) and (B)(5) through (B)(7) if it can prove that it did not
know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharges and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
interferences; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 51.137  BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgement to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (B) above.
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(c) above.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
FATS, OILS AND GREASE
§ 51.150  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The objective of this subchapter is to aid in preventing the introduction
and accumulation of fats, oils and greases into the municipal wastewater
system, which will or tend to cause or contribute to sanitary sewer blockages
and obstructions. Food service establishments and other industrial or
commercial establishments generating wastewater containing fats, oils or
greases are subject to this subchapter. This section regulates such users by
requiring that grease interceptors and other approved strategies be installed,
implemented and maintained in accordance with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. O-2007-10, passed 6-5-2007)
§ 51.151  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the definitions contained in G.S. § 36-
172 and the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION LEVEL.  The concentration based numeric value that the grease
interceptor effluent at the device’s outlet tee and prior to mixing with any
other wastewater from the contributing establishment’s property, are expected
to achieve on a consistent or stipulated basis.
   COMMON INTERCEPTOR.  One or more interceptors receiving FOG laden wastewater
from more than one establishment. COMMON INTERCEPTORS may be located at
shopping centers, malls, entertainment complexes, sporting arenas, hotels,
multi-tenant “flex” spaces, mixed-use spaces and other sites where multiple
establishments are connected to a single grease interceptor. The owner of the
property on which the common grease interceptor is located shall be primarily
responsible for the maintenance, upkeep and repair of the common interceptor.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES.  Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as “grease”, “greases,” or “FOG”.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS or FSE.  Those establishments primarily engaged
in activities of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for
consumption foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation
activities: cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling,
sauteing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling blanching,
roasting, toasting, or poaching, and infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and
any other food preparation or serving activity that produces a consumable food
product in or on a receptacle requiring washing to be reused.
   FOG ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN.  The document and written plan and procedures
by which the Director implements an enforcement strategy applicable to the FOG
control and management program established herein. The plan applies to FOG
program violations and matters of program noncompliance. Stipulated penalties
for specific and programmatic infractions are addressed in the plan and set
forth in the town’s annual budget ordinance. The Director shall make site and
case specific determinations of program non-conformance in accordance with this
subchapter.
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR.  A device for separating waterborne greases and
grease complexes from wastewater and retaining such greases and grease
complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system. Grease traps also serve to collect
solids that settle, generated by and from activities that subject users to this
subchapter, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS are sometimes
referred to herein as “grease interceptors.”
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY.  The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases and
settled solids from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary
sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENT.  Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking but
that may produce a consumable food product in or on a receptacle requiring
washing to be reused.
   ON-SITE GREASE INTERCEPTOR TREATMENT (ON-SITE TREATMENT).  Mechanisms or
procedures utilized by a user to treat grease interceptor contents on the
user’s site, followed by the introduction of such treated wastewater back into
the interceptor. A user may only accomplish on-site grease interceptor
treatment if the North Carolina Division of Waste Management as a septage
management firm permits the user or the user’s contract service provider or
service provider.
   PROGRAM ACKNOWLEDGMENT CERTIFICATE.  Program confirmation documentation
issued by the Director. The user is required to keep a program acknowledgment
certificate on the premises and produce it upon request of town.
   SERVICE PROVIDER.  Any third party not in the employment of the user that
performs maintenance, repair and other services on a user’s grease interceptor
at the user’s directive.
   USER.  As defined in G.S. § 35-172 for the purpose of this subchapter. 
Users include property owners who provide common interceptors for one or more
independent establishments, including tenants.
(Ord. O-2007-10, passed 6-5-2007)
§ 51.152  GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, RECORDKEEPING AND
GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed and maintained at the users
expense, when a user operates a food service establishment. Grease interceptors
may be required in noncooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs
establishments and other industrial or commercial establishments when the
establishment generates wastewater containing fat or grease and the Director
determines an interceptor is necessary to prevent contribution or accumulation
of grease to the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. Upon
notification by the Director or designee that the user is subject to the terms
of an enforcement action, as stipulated in the FOG enforcement response plan,
said user shall not allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed an establishment action level of 200 milligrams
per liter, expressed as hexane extractable material. All grease interceptors
shall be of a type, design and capacity approved by the Director and shall be
readily and easily accessible for maintenance and repair, including cleaning
and for town inspection. All grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied
of accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less often
than every 60 days or as permitted in a valid program modification. Users who
are required to pass wastewater through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow between the influent and effluent baffles, with 25% of the
total volume of the grease interceptor being allowed for any food-derived
solids to settle or accumulate and floatable grease derived materials to rise
and accumulate, identified hereafter as a solids blanket and grease cap
respectively.
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and solids blanket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 60 days at the user’s expense, or in
accordance with a valid program modification or other director’s requirements.
Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials, such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags
and the like, which could settle into this solids blanket and thereby reduce
the effective volume of the grease interceptor.
      (3)   If the user performs on-site grease interceptor treatment pursuant
to a modification granted fewer than G.S. § 36-183(g)(5), the user shall:
         (a)   Prior to commencement of onsite treatment, obtain written
approval by and from the Director of all processes utilized in said onsite
treatment.
         (b)   If any pumped wastes or other materials removed from the grease
interceptor are treated in any fashion on-site and reintroduced back into the
grease interceptor as an activity of and after such on-site treatment, the user
shall meet the criteria contained in subsection (c) below.
         (c)   Attain and adhere to this criteria: within and not more than 24
hours after onsite grease interceptor servicing, not more than two inches of
settlable solids and/or grease shall be allowed to have accumulated therein as
a result of said operations.
      (4)   Operate and maintain the grease interceptor to achieve and
consistently maintain any applicable grease action level. CONSISTENT shall mean
any wastewater sample taken from such grease interceptor must meet the terms of
numerical limit attainment. If a user documents that conditions exist (“space
constraints”) on their establishment site that limit the ability to locate a
grease interceptor on the exterior of the establishment, the user may request
an interior location for the interceptor. Such request shall contain the
following information.
      (5)   The use of biological or other additives as a grease degradation or
conditioning agent is permissible only upon prior written approval of the
Director. Any user using biological or other additives shall maintain the trap
or interceptor in such a manner that attainment of any grease wastewater,
action level, solids blanket or grease cap criteria, goal or directive, as
measured from the grease interceptor outlet or interior, is consistently
achieved.
      (6)   The use of automatic grease removal systems is permissible only
upon prior written approval of the Town Manager, the Public Works Director or
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Any user using a grease interceptor located
on the interior of the site shall be subject to any operational requirements
set forth by the North Carolina Division of Waste Management. Any user using
this equipment shall operate the system in such a manner that attainment of the
grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the unit’s outlet, is
consistently achieved as required by the Director.
      (7)   The Director may make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy
need, design, appropriateness, application, location, modification(s) and
conditional usage based on review of all relevant information regarding grease
interceptor performance, facility site and building plan review by all
regulatory reviewing agencies and may require repairs to, or modification or
replacement of grease interceptors.
   (B)   The user shall maintain a written record of grease interceptor
maintenance for three years. All such records will be available for inspection
by the town at all times. These records shall include:
      (1)   FSE name and physical location;
      (2)   Date of grease interceptor service;
      (3)   Time of grease interceptor service;
      (4)   Name of grease interceptor service company;
      (5)   Name and signature of grease interceptor service company agent
performing said service;
      (6)   Established service frequency and type of service; full pump-out,
partial pump-out, on-site treatment (type of nature of operations);
      (7)   Number and size of each grease interceptor serviced at FSE
location;
      (8)   Approximated amount, per best professional judgment of contract
service provider, of grease and solids removed from each grease interceptor;
      (9)   Total volume of waste removed from each grease interceptor;
      (10)   Destination of removed wastes, food solids and wastewater
disposal;
      (11)   Signature and date of FSE personnel confirming service completion;
and
      (12)   Such other information as required by Director.
   (C)   A user may request a modification to the following requirements of
this subchapter. Such request for a modification shall be in writing and shall
provide the information set forth below.
      (1)   The user’s grease interceptor pumping frequency. The Director may
modify the 60-day grease interceptor pump-out frequency when the user provides
data and performance criteria relative to the overall effectiveness of a
proposed alternate and such can be substantiated by the Director. Proposed
alternatives may include: grease interceptor pumping or maintenance matters,
bioremediation as a complement to grease interceptor maintenance, grease
interceptor selection and sizing criteria, onsite grease interceptor
maintenance, and specialized ware washing procedures
      (2)   Grease interceptor maintenance and service procedures. The Director
may modify the method(s) or procedure(s) utilized service a grease interceptor
when the user provides data, and performance criteria relative to the overall
effectiveness of a proposed alternate method or procedure and such can be
substantiated by the Director. If a modification to maintenance and service
procedures is permitted it shall be a conditional discharged permit approval.
      (3)   Any modification must be approved by the Director in written form
before implementation by the user or the user’s designated service provider.
The user shall pay modification fees as set forth in the budget ordinance fee
schedule.
(Ord. O-2007-10, passed 6-5-2007)
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder,
may be fined up to $10,000 per day per violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The cost of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of the civil penalties assessed in accordance with this
section shall be as provided in §
51.051(H).
(Ord. 192, passed 10-4-1994)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Obedience to official traffic control devices and signal
   
70.03   Driving through filling stations to avoid regulations
   
70.04   Noises
   
70.05   Backing
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the town at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing.
   (B)   Where no special hazards exist, a speed of 35 mph shall be lawful, but
any speed in excess of said limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed
is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful.
   (C)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing prima
facie limit shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill or crest, or when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of the weather or street
conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering any street in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (D)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(Ord. passed 8-2-1955)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the
ordinances of this town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exception granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
chapter.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an authorized sign is not in proper position.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see 70.99
§ 70.03  DRIVING THROUGH FILLING STATIONS TO AVOID REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a motor vehicle to cut across the
sidewalk and/or through the driveway of any gasoline service station to avoid a
traffic signal and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to
operate the same at a street intersection where authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U turn is permitted by driving the same
across the sidewalk and/or through the driveway of a gasoline filling station
or other property to avoid such signs; provided, however, that this provision
shall not apply to the driver of any motor vehicle in driving the same into the
premises of any gasoline service station for the purpose of purchasing gasoline
or other automotive supplies.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-1-2000)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sound any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle operated on any street in
the town, except as a danger signal, and the sounding of such horn or signal
device for any period of time longer than is necessary for a danger signal is
hereby prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle on any street in the
town unless said motor vehicle discharges its exhaust into the open air,
through a muffler or other device, which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection or over
a crosswalk and shall not in any event or at any place back a vehicle unless
such movement can be made in safety.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.03 shall be fined $50 for each offense.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-1-2000)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NOISE
      
92.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
94.   PARADES, RACES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
      
95.   YARD SALES
      
96.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
Enforcement
   
90.015   Authority to appoint Animal Control Officers
   
90.016   Authority of the Police Department
   
90.017   Animal Control Officers’ responsibilities; right of investigation and
inspection
   
90.018   Interference with enforcement
Animal Regulations
   
90.030   Animals at large
   
90.031   Creating and maintaining nuisances
   
90.032   Collecting dogs and cats for resale
   
90.033   Keeping livestock and poultry
   
90.034   Keeping nondomestic animals
   
90.035   Beekeeping permitted
   
90.036   Bird sanctuary established
   
90.037   Hunting, killing and trapping
   
90.038   Compliance with state dangerous dog laws required; chapter
supplemental to dangerous dog laws; additional regulations
   
90.039   Notification of injury to animal required
   
90.040   Cruelty to animals
   
90.041   Luring, enticing, seizing, molesting or teasing
   
90.042   Restraint of dogs
   
90.043   Confinement of female cats and dogs in heat
Abatement
   
90.055   Abatement
Rabies Control
   
90.070   Rabies control
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or nondomestic, but not including
humans.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises provided and operated for the restraint, care
and disposition of animals, whether such shelter is public or private in
nature.
   AT LARGE. An animal off the property of its owner or keeper and not under
physical restraint; however, such term shall not be construed to include any
cat.
   BEE. Insects of the superfamily Apoidea; in particular, the honeybees, Apis
mellifera. It includes all life stages of such insects, their genetic material
and dead remains.
   CAT. Both male and female cats of any age.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, animal exhibition or kennel.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a person without
provocation:
      (2)   Is determined by the person designated by the Town Manager to be
potentially dangerous because the dog has engaged in one or more of the
behaviors listed in the definition in this section of the term potentially
dangerous dog; and
      (3)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting.
   DOG. Both male and female dogs of any age.
   DOMESTIC. Any animal kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or harbored as a pet,
for work purposes or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD. Person who maintains the household.
   HIVE. Any receptacle or container, or part of a receptacle or container,
which is made or prepared for the use of bees, or which is inhabited by bees.
   IMPOUNDED. An animal that has been taken or received into the custody of the
Animal Control Officer or any authorized representative thereof.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal, or who keeps or harbors an
animal, or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by such person.
   NONDOMESTIC. Any animal that is wild or dangerous by natural existence.
   NUISANCE. An animal, or group of animals, if it:
      (1)   Damages, soils or defiles private or public property;
      (2)   Interferes with, molests or attacks persons or other animals;
      (3)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions, including
fouling of the air by odors;
      (4)   By virtue of number or type, is offensive or dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare;
      (5)   Is diseased or dangerous to the public health; and
      (6)   Habitually or repeatedly makes noises or other sounds that tend to
annoy, disturb or frighten citizens.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring any dog or cat. For the
purpose of this chapter, the head of the household shall be deemed to be the
OWNER in respect to any dog or cat owned, kept or harbored by any person
residing in such household and kept on the premises.
   OWNERS’ REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owners of
any dog or cat, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area
of a condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that the person designated by the Town
Manager determines to have:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner’s real property; or
      (3)   Approached a person in a vicious or terrorizing manner in an
apparent attitude of attack when not on the owner’s real property.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal if it is within the real property limits of its owner,
or secured by a leash or lead, or confined.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal not under restraint and found off the property of
its owner or keeper.
   SWARM. A body of bees, including a queen, that are settled together.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that constitutes a physical threat to humans or
other domestic animals.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.015  AUTHORITY TO APPOINT ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   Authority is hereby given to the Town Manager, at his or her discretion, to
appoint one or more Animal Control Officers.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 90.016  AUTHORITY OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Members of the Town Police Department or the County Animal Control Officer
shall be empowered to perform the duties of the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 90.017  ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS’ RESPONSIBILITIES; RIGHT OF INVESTIGATION AND
INSPECTION.
   (A)   Members of the Town Police Department, the County Animal Control
Officer as well as anyone designated by the Town Manager to enforce this
chapter shall be empowered to:
      (1)   Enforce and carry out all laws of the state and all ordinances of
the town pertaining to animals; and
      (2)   Be empowered to issue notices of violations of this chapter in such
form as the Town Board may prescribe.
   (B)   Whenever it is necessary to make an investigation or inspection to
enforce any of the provisions of, or perform any duty imposed by, this chapter
or other applicable law, or whenever the Animal Control Officer, or his or her
designated agent, has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter
or other applicable law, the Animal Control Officer or his or her designated
agent is hereby empowered to enter such property at any reasonable time and to
inspect the property and perform any duty imposed upon such Animal Control
Officer, or his or her agent, by this chapter or other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 90.018  INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
Animal Control Officer, or persons duly authorized by this chapter, or to seek
to release any animal in the custody of such person, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.030  ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession, charge,
custody or control of any animal to suffer, permit or allow the animal to stray
or in any manner to run at large in or upon any public street, sidewalk or park
or upon the property of another, if such animal is not under sufficient
physical restraint to allow the animal to be controlled.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.031  CREATING AND MAINTAINING NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to permit an animal to create a
nuisance, or to maintain a nuisance created by an animal.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.032  COLLECTING DOGS AND CATS FOR RESALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect any dog or cat for the
purpose of resale within the corporate limits of the town by soliciting from
house to house, setting traps or other means on any land within the town.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.033  KEEPING LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY.
   (A)   Hogs and swine. No hogs or swine are permitted to be in any zone
within the corporate limits, except in an industrial district for manufacturing
purposes and/or in connection with a fair or other special event conducted on a
temporary basis. Purebred miniature Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs are exempt from
this provision provided they meet all the requirements of division (F) below.
   (B)   Horses, mules, ponies, cows, sheep, goats or other livestock,
including poultry.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to house or stable any horse,
mule, pony, cow, sheep, goat or other livestock, including poultry, in the
corporate limits of the town within 150 feet of any dwelling, school, church,
restaurant, grocery store, drugstore or other retail establishment, or within
100 feet of a septic tank or private water supply intended for human
consumption. In addition, it shall also be unlawful to keep or maintain such
animals by means of tether, fence or other type enclosure within 20 feet of the
property line of an adjoining lot.
      (2)   Within the town’s corporate limits, no more than one such animal
may be maintained on a lot containing less than 20,000 square feet in area.
Additional animals may be maintained on the basis of one animal for each
additional 20,000 square feet provided.
   (C)   Outside the town’s corporate limits. Outside the town’s corporate
limits, the following minimum dimensional requirements shall apply:
 
Animal Type      Minimum Land Area (Lot Size)
Cattle or horses 12,000 sq. ft. per head
Goats            2,000 sq. ft. per head
Poultry          8,000 sq. ft. per 100 birds
Sheep            2,000 sq. ft. per head
Swine            10,000 sq. ft. per head
 
   (D)   Structures for livestock. Best management practices shall be applied
in using and maintaining structures for livestock, including stables, so as to
eliminate or minimize nuisances and adverse impacts to the maximum extent
possible.
   (E)   Keeping fowl/poultry. All yards, premises, sheds, coops and the like
occupied by chickens or other fowl shall be deemed a nuisance if not cleaned
regularly and kept in a sanitary condition at all times.
   (F)   Pot-bellied pigs permitted. The keeping and raising of purebred
miniature Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs (Sus scrofa bittatus) and other similar
purebred miniature pigs as household pets shall be allowed in all residential
districts subject to the limitations placed thereon by the following divisions.
      (1)   Any person wishing to keep and maintain miniature pigs within the
town limits shall fill out and present an application form to the Town Clerk or
Animal Control Officer stating the applicant’s name and address and the
location where such miniature pigs will be kept. The application form shall be
accompanied by a copy of the registration papers for each pig or certification
from a licensed veterinarian for each pig stating that the pig is a purebred
miniature Vietnamese pot-bellied pig (Sus scrofa bittatus) or other similar
purebred miniature pig, a certification from a licensed veterinarian stating
that the male pig has been neutered or that the female pig has been spayed, a
certification from a licensed veterinarian stating that the miniature pig has
been vaccinated for erysipelas, atrophic rhinitis, leptospirosis and
transmissible gastroenteritis (TGE), and has been wormed, a site drawing
indicating compliance with the appropriate requirements of this section, and
the appropriate fee as required by the town.
      (2)   An approved, unrevoked application, as described above, is required
to keep any miniature pig(s) in accordance with this section.
      (3)   Miniature pigs as permitted herein shall not exceed 22 inches in
height and a weight of 150 pounds each.
      (4)   Only two such miniature pigs shall be kept in any household.
      (5)   Such miniature pigs shall be kept in a restrained area at all times
and shall not be permitted to run at large.
      (6)   No such miniature pigs shall be allowed off the premises of its
owner except on a leash or duly restrained in a vehicle.
      (7)   The breeding and raising of miniature pigs shall not be allowed
within the town limits. If any such pig shall give birth to piglets, the mother
pig and all piglets shall be immediately removed from the town limits for
weaning and raising.
      (8)   All miniature pigs kept as household pets must be routinely
vaccinated against infections and all communicable diseases common to such
animals. The owner of any miniature pig growing tusks must have the same
surgically removed by a veterinarian.
      (9)   Any outside area occupied by a miniature pig or pigs shall be
regularly sanitized and kept free of waste. No such area shall be allowed to
become muddy or unsanitary.
      (10)   All persons keeping or maintaining any miniature pig(s) within the
town limits shall, within six months of the effective date of this chapter,
comply with all provisions of this section.
      (11)   All persons keeping or maintaining any miniature pig(s) within any
area which becomes subject to the provisions of this chapter through the
extension of the town limits by annexation shall, within six months of the
effective date of the annexation, comply with all provisions of this chapter.
      (12)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section and/or a
finding of a violation by the Animal Control Officer shall cause an immediate
revocation of the subject approved application.
   (G)   Registration required of existing livestock. Livestock that are within
the corporate limits of the town on the date of adoption of this chapter and do
not meet all requirements of this chapter (i.e., number of livestock allowed
per lot area or the proximity of a barn/stable to a dwelling, school, church,
restaurant, grocery store, drugstore, retail establishment, septic tank or
private water supply) shall be allowed to remain in the town for as long as the
animals live; provided all animals are registered with the town within one year
of adoption of this chapter. Registration of existing livestock animals will
require the owner to state the age, sex and breed of all animals as well as the
lot square footage or acreage of the land that the animals are kept on. Any
offspring of the existing livestock shall be removed from the corporate limits
of town following weaning from its mother.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.034  KEEPING NONDOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall possess or harbor any nondomestic animal which is dangerous
to persons or property or which has the potential of being dangerous to persons
or property. This section shall not apply to bona fide circuses, petting zoos
and other traveling commercial animal exhibitions of limited duration.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.035  BEEKEEPING PERMITTED.
   The keeping and raising of bees shall be allowed in all areas of the town
subject to the limitations placed thereon by the following divisions of this
section.
   (A)   No more than five hives, each with only one swarm, shall be kept on
lots less than 10,000 square feet. For each 2,500 square feet of lot area in
excess of 10,000 square feet, one additional hive may be kept. Each hive shall
only have one swarm.
   (B)   Hives shall not be located within 25 feet of any property line.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 90.036  BIRD SANCTUARY ESTABLISHED.
   All of the territory within the territorial limits of the town shall be a
bird sanctuary.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 90.037  HUNTING, KILLING AND TRAPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill or trap any animal within
the territorial limits of the town. This section shall not apply to the Animal
Control Officer or duly authorized agent when enforcing the provisions provided
in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE DANGEROUS DOG LAWS REQUIRED; CHAPTER
SUPPLEMENTAL TO DANGEROUS DOG LAWS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to dangerous dogs.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to dangerous
dogs in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall designate a person to be responsible for
determining when a dog is a dangerous dog and the Town Board of Adjustment
shall hear any appeals.
   (D)   In addition to complying with the state laws, owners of animals
determined to be dangerous shall observe the following:
      (1)   The owner shall meet all requirements for rabies inoculations;
      (2)   A dangerous animal shall wear a collar identifying the animal as a
dangerous animal;
      (3)   While on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel suitable to
prevent entry or reaching through by young children and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. The pen or kennel may not share common fencing with an
area or perimeter fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides at least six
feet in height; a secure top attached to all sides; the sides must be either
buried two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad or securely
attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel must be locked. The enclosure
must also provide protection from the elements for the animal and have a ground
area of at least five feet by 20 feet. The owner or keeper shall display a sign
on his or her premises warning that there is a dangerous dog on the property.
The sign shall be visible and capable of being read from the public highway;
      (4)   The owner must allow the Animal Control Officer to make whatever
inquiries are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
division (D), including inspection of the owner’s premises where the dangerous
dog is confined;
      (5)   If a dangerous dog escapes its confinement or frees itself from its
owner, the Animal Control Officer or other law enforcement officer is
authorized to destroy the dog on the spot, if, in his or her judgement, the dog
cannot be safely captured without causing harm to the officer or the public.
The officer shall not be held liable for the loss of the dog; and
      (6)   If the owner of the dog that has been designated dangerous is
unwilling or unable to comply with the regulations of this division (D) for
keeping such dog, then he or she must have the animal humanely euthanized. All
costs shall be borne by the owner.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039  NOTIFICATION OF INJURY TO ANIMAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring an animal to fail to
immediately notify the owner or keeper of the animal, or an Animal Control
Officer, humane society or the Police Department of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject any animal to conditions detrimental
to its health or general welfare, or to cause or procure such action. The terms
TORTURE and TORMENT shall be held to include every act, omission or neglect
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
Such terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful taking of animals under
the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Commission; nor to
prohibit the Animal Control Officer or persons duly authorized from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his or
her animal with proper shelter and protection from the weather, sufficient and
wholesome food and water to keep his or her animal in good health and comfort,
the opportunity for vigorous daily exercise, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to color, dye, stain or otherwise change the
natural color of baby chickens, other fowl or rabbits.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tether any fowl.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to incite, procure or cause any
animal fight within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041  LURING, ENTICING, SEIZING, MOLESTING OR TEASING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize, molest or
tease any animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper
or while the animal is on the property of its owner or keeper.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042  RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   When a dog is on the property of its owner or keeper and is not
within a secure enclosure, it shall be under the direct control of, and
obedient to, the owner or keeper. At all other times when a dog is on the
property of its owner or keeper, it shall be kept within a secure enclosure,
including a fenced-in area or electronic fence, house or other building, of
sufficient strength and height to prevent the dog from escaping from such
enclosure; provided, the owner or keeper may, for a period not to exceed one
hour every 24 hours, allow the dog to be tethered or chained to a stationary
object or pole as long as the dog is provided with sufficient water and
nourishment.
      (2)   All dogs off of the property of its owner or keeper shall be
controlled by means of a leash and under the direct control of, and obedient
to, the owner’s or keeper’s command.
   (B)   Dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in the course of law
enforcement activities are exempt from this section.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043  CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE CATS AND DOGS IN HEAT.
   (A)   When any female cat or dog is in heat, the owner of such animal shall
confine the cat or dog in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that
the animal will not be in contact with another cat or dog or create a nuisance
by attracting males.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the intentional
breeding of animals within an enclosed area on the premises of the owner of the
animal being bred.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
ABATEMENT
§ 90.055  ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or unwanted, or not wearing
a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, as required by state law or this
chapter, or not under restraint in violation of this chapter, may be seized,
impounded and confined in an animal shelter in a humane manner.
   (B)   Impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner or keeper of
such animal from any penalty which may be imposed for a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.070  RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this section to supplement such state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The violation of any provision of this chapter, unless otherwise
indicated, shall be deemed a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not exceeding
$500 and/or a civil penalty of $50 to be recovered in the nature of a debt. If
the violation is continued, each day’s violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to
this division (A) does not relieve a person of his or her liability for fees
imposed under this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedial injunction or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175.
      (3)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding a dog found running at
large, the Animal Control Officer or his or her agent may issue a notice of
violation of this chapter to the known owner of such dog. Such notice shall
impose upon the owner of the dog a penalty as established by the Town Board,
which penalty shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk. The notice of
violation referred to in this division (A) may be delivered in person or mailed
to the person violating the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Noncompliance with any of the provisions of §
90.042(A) may result in the impoundment of the animal at any time, or may
result in a fine of $100, or both.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
CHAPTER 91:  NOISE
Section
   
91.01   General prohibitions
   
91.02   Prohibited acts
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to make, permit, continue or cause to be made or to
create any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town,
with the exception of construction work done pursuant to a federal, state,
county or town contract which requires work to be performed during certain
hours. Construction work under these conditions shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTURBING. Noise that is perceived by a person of ordinary sensibilities
as interrupting the normal peace and calm of the area.
      UNNECESSARY. Any excessive or unusually loud sound or any sound which is
of such character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of
any neighborhood or which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of any person, and being a type of sound which could be
lessened or otherwise controlled by the maker without unduly restricting his or
her conduct.
      UNREASONABLY LOUD. That which is substantially incompatible with the time
and location where created to the extent that it creates an actual or imminent
interference with peace or good order.
   (C)   In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud, disturbing and
unnecessary, the following factors incident to such noise are to be considered:
      (1)   Time of day;
      (2)   Proximity to residential structures;
      (3)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant;
      (4)   The volume and intensity;
      (5)   Whether the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type
of electronic or mechanical means;
      (6)   The character and zoning of the area;
      (7)   Whether the noise is related to the normal operation of a business
or other labor activity; and/or
      (8)   Whether the noise is subject to being controlled without
unreasonable effort or expense to the creator thereof.
   (D)   A continuing or non-resetting audible burglar or fire alarm shall not
be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this section but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn, whistle or signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle or railroad train, except as a
danger signal or as required by law, so as to create any unreasonable, loud or
harsh sound or the sounding or such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time;
   (B)   Radios, stereos and the like. The playing of any radio, television
set, record player, stereo or other sound reproduction system, musical
instrument or sound-producing or sound-amplifying device on the premises of any
dwelling, hotel or motel room or business, in such manner or with such volume,
particularly, but not limited to, the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
if the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet or more from the
dwelling’s property line, or, in the case of a hotel or motel room, the unit’s
most outer boundary wall;
   (C)   Sound-producing equipment in vehicles. The playing of any radio,
cassette player, compact disc, video tape or disc, or other similar device for
reproducing sound located on or in any motor vehicle on a public street,
highway, within any public vehicular area, or on the premises of a private
residence, if the sound generated or noise vibration there from is audible or
can be felt at a distance of 30 feet or more from the radio, cassette player,
compact disc, video tape or disc or other similar device that is producing the
sound;
   (D)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or
loud continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (E)   Use of vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, dirt bike, go-
cart, recreational vehicle or any other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or
operated in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, screeching of tires or other noise;
   (F)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except as a warning of danger;
   (G)   Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except
through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (H)   Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device operated by
compressed air unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced;
   (I)   Building operations. The erection (including excavation), demolition,
alteration or repair of any building in a residential district between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any day or in any district other than a
residential district between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any day,
except in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety and
then only with a permit from the Town Manager, or his or her designee, which
permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency
continues;
   (J)   Noises near schools and the like. The creation of any excessive noise
on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, library or court
while the same is in session, or adjacent to any hospital, or any church during
services, which unreasonably interferes with the operation or activities of
such institution;
   (K)   Loading and unloading operation. The creation of a loud and excessive
noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening or
destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers;
   (L)   Bells and gongs. The sounding of a bell or gong that disturbs the
quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
   (M)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other
instrument for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show, sale, display or advertisement of merchandise;
   (N)   Blowers, engines. The operation of any noise-creating blower, power
fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due
to the explosion of operating gases or fluid, unless the emitting therefrom is
sufficiently muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device
sufficient to deaden such noise, so that the same shall not cause annoyance to
the public nor unreasonably disturb the rest and quiet of persons on adjacent
premises or within the vicinity thereof;
   (O)   Appliances and other mechanical devices. The operation of any noise-
producing appliance or other mechanical device which, due to operational
deficiencies, malfunction or other type of disrepair, causes loud and excessive
noises in such a manner as to unreasonably annoy the public or disturb the rest
and quiet of persons on adjacent premises or within the vicinity thereof; and
   (P)   Loudspeakers or amplifiers.
      (1)   It is prohibited within or from any commercial establishment or
private entertainment or recreational venue to allow any loudspeaker or other
mechanically-amplified device to be played so the sound there from may be heard
at a distance of 30 feet or more from the facility’s property line, between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (2)   In the exercise of noncommercial free speech, loudspeakers or
amplifiers may be used, subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to speak into a loudspeaker
or amplifier within the corporate limits of the town, when such loudspeaker or
amplifier is so adjusted that the voice of the speaker is amplified to the
extent that it is audible at a distance in excess of 150 feet from the person
speaking; provided that such use in town recreational facilities shall be
regulated by the rules of the town parks.
         (b)   The hours that this shall be in effect are 12:00 a.m. to 7:00
a.m.
(Ord. passed 2-1-1994; Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Where there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, the town,
at its discretion, may take one or more of the following enforcement actions.
      (1)   A police officer may issue a citation as provided herein,
subjecting the violator to a civil penalty of $100. A second violation by the
same person or business within one year of the first violation shall subject
such person or business to a penalty of $200. All subsequent violations by the
same person or business within one year of the first violation shall subject
such person or business to a civil penalty of $500.
      (2)   Failure to pay a civil penalty imposed under this section within
ten days may subject the offender to an additional $50 delinquency charge. Any
unpaid penalty or delinquency charge may be recovered by the town in a civil
action.
      (3)   The civil penalties imposed by this section and the proceeds
therefrom as collected by payment, civil action or otherwise, shall belong to
the town and shall be paid into the General Fund of the town under such
conditions as prescribed by the annual budget.
      (4)   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-4, a violation of this chapter may be
considered a misdemeanor. Such a misdemeanor is punishable by a fine of not
more than $500 or imprisonment designated for a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each separate day of a continued violation shall be a separate and
distinct offense and shall give rise to a separate and distinct penalty.
(Ord. passed 2-1-1994; Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 92:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Preamble
   
92.02   Administration
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.05   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.06   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
92.07   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
92.08   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
92.09   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
92.10   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
92.11   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
92.12   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
92.13   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
92.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
92.15   Exceptions
   
92.16   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  PREAMBLE.
   The Board of Commissioners of the town finds it necessary and desirable to
promote or enhance:
   (A)   The quality of urban attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the
town;
   (B)   The protection of property values throughout the town;
   (C)   The preservation of the livability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
   (D)   The opportunities for economic development for the town;
   (E)   The attractiveness of the town’s thoroughfares and commercial roads
which present the primary, public visibility to visitors and to passers-by of
the town; and
   (F)   The comfort, happiness and emotional stability of the occupants of
property in the vicinity of abandoned, nuisance and junked motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways
within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Town Code Administrator
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposal of abandoned,
nuisance and junked motor vehicles located on private property. The town may,
on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing
businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority or powers of officers of the town’s Police Department and
Volunteer Fire Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out
their duties.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law
or ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left upon a public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public;
      (3)   Is left upon property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left upon private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Code Administrator, respectively, designated to order the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitos, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.04  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorized officials of the town may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Code Administrator may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located in fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, the Town Code
Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in
violation of this chapter to a storage garage or area. No such vehicle shall be
removed from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee
or occupant of the premises unless the Code Administrator finds in writing that
the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on
the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
      (2)   The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
the area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the town zoning regulations, provided the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and/or
abutting premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60 calendar days.
Junked motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar days shall be
kept inside a completely enclosed building. The Town Code Administrator has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible
with the objectives stated in the preamble of this chapter; and
      (2)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding
60 calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as
defined in the town zoning regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.07  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
92.08, an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and addresses of the registered owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail. The
person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show the name
(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the date mailed. If such
names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days alter the
notice is mailed or affixed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners and further proceedings to
remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.08  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorized official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special
need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise
maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all
cases, be entered by the authorized official in the appropriate daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
includes:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determines that the
immediate removal of such vehicles maybe warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets or
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorized official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration, and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.09  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform such
services for the town.
      (2)   Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorized town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle with
such notice to include the following:
         (a)   The description of the removed vehicle;
         (b)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
         (c)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
         (d)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
         (e)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, indicating the information set forth in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)
(2)(e) above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known
address, unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or
her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorized town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(e) above.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.10  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.11  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.12  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.13  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where the vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Code Administrator. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.14  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.15  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
§ 92.16  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town, any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provision of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to civil penalties as
prescribed in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1997)
CHAPTER 93:  PUBLIC NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Jurisdiction
   
93.03   Declaration of public health nuisance
   
93.04   Administration and enforcement responsibility
   
93.05   Complaints and investigations
   
93.06   Notice to abate public health nuisance
   
93.07   Failure of owner to abate public health nuisance
   
93.08   Alternate remedies
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCE. Any machinery and all instruments used in operating it, a
mechanical thing, device or apparatus. The machine or instrument does not have
to be operational.
   BUILDING MATERIAL (ALSO CALLED CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION MATERIAL). Brick,
stone, carpet, plumbing materials, plaster, concrete, asphalt, roofing, floor
coverings, gutters or other material or substances accumulated as a result of
construction, repairs or additions to existing structures or accessory
structures or demolition of such.
   BUSINESS TRASH. Any accumulation of incidental waste products, garbage,
other than household trash, which is associated with the operation of stores,
offices and commercial establishments.
   GARBAGE. A by-product of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter which is
subject to decomposition, decay and/or the generation of noxious or offensive
gases or odors, or which during and/or after decay may serve as breeding or
feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Potentially dangerous by-products which cannot be handled,
treated or disposed of without special precautions. HAZARDOUS WASTE includes
ignitable, corrosive, reactive and toxic wastes such as acetone, gasoline,
industrial metal, alkaline cleaners, acids, cyanide, chlorine, arsenic,
pesticide wastes, paint, caustics, infected materials, offal, fecal matter
(human and animal) and explosives.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Accumulation of sweepings, rags or other matter of any
kind, other than garbage and recyclables, which is usually attendant to
housekeeping.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste, including solids, semi-solids, sludges and
liquids created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing
enterprises (sometimes referred to as SPECIAL WASTE, as it requires special
handling).
   JUNK. Any item creating a littered condition including, but not limited to,
household or office furnishings, household appliances, mattress, box springs,
lawn equipment, machinery or other similar items which are either in a wholly
or partially rusted, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition.
   LITTER. All discarded dead animals and human-made materials, including, but
not limited to, solid waste materials, building materials, industrial materials
and hazardous waste.
   PREMISES. Lots, including sidewalks, rights-of-way, easements, grass strips
or curbs up to the edge of the pavement of any public street.
   RECYCLABLES. Newspapers and accompanying inserts, magazines, junk mail,
cardboard, glass, food and beverage containers, plastic soft drink and liquor
bottles, spiral paper cans and yard waste.
   RUBBISH. Useless waste or any material thrown away as worthless.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and junk.
   TRASH. Either household trash or business trash.
   YARD WASTE.
      (1)   Grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery pruning and
such other similar materials which are generated in the maintenance of yards
and gardens, which are separate from other solid waste materials and placed in
a designated recycling collection area.
      (2)   YARD WASTE shall not include trees, tree limbs, brush and other
material resulting from commercial tree trimmers and/or commercial lawn-care
services.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 93.02  JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 93.03  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   The following conditions shall constitute a nuisance to public health or
safety and shall be prohibited within the town’s jurisdiction:
   (A)   Neglect of property. It shall be unlawful for any person to endanger
the public health, safety or welfare through the neglect of property by causing
or allowing the accumulation of appliances, building materials, construction
and demolition material, business trash, garbage, hazardous waste, household
trash, industrial waste, junk, litter, recyclables, rubbish, solid waste,
trash, yard waste or potentially dangerous devices to be discarded, abandoned
or remain on or emanate from any such property;
   (B)   Unauthorized accumulation of solid waste, trash, recyclables, garbage,
junk, rubbish or building material.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or cause the
accumulation of solid waste, trash, recyclables, garbage, junk, rubbish or
building material which produces offensive, noxious or foul odors or vapors or
which provides refuge or sustenance for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of any property
to cause or allow the accumulation of solid waste, trash, recyclables, garbage,
junk, rubbish or building material causing or threatening to cause a fire
hazard or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (C)   Unauthorized accumulation of litter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to scatter, cast, throw, blow, place, sweep or deposit any litter in
such a manner that it may be carried or deposited upon any street, sidewalk,
alley, body of water, sewer, parkway, lot, public property or private property;
   (D)   Dilapidated condition on premises. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have on his or her premises material that creates a littered condition, such
as, but not limited to, lawn furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment,
building materials, automotive parts, tires, fencing or any other items which
are in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative
condition and which are not completely enclosed within a building or dwelling;
   (E)   Uncontrolled growth of weeds and grass. It shall be unlawful for the
owner and/or occupant of a property to allow grass, weeds and other overgrowth
vegetation to exceed a height greater than 12 inches above the surrounding
ground provided that the following shall not be considered to be overgrowth
vegetation: trees and ornamental shrubs; cultured plants; natural vegetation on
undeveloped property that is not a threat to the character of surrounding
properties; and flowers and growing and producing vegetable plants. It shall be
the duty of the of the owner and/or occupant to cut and remove all grass, weeds
and other overgrowth vegetation as often as necessary to comply with the
provisions of this section;
   (F)   Unauthorized accumulation of hazardous or toxic materials and
chemicals. It shall be unlawful to accumulate hazardous or toxic materials and
chemicals in an open place;
   (G)   Obstruction of town or state rights-of-way. It shall be unlawful for
the owner and/or occupant of any property to cause or allow any trees or
shrubbery that shall interfere with or endanger the use of the public streets;
interfere with or obstruct illumination of street lights; obscure sight
distance or create a traffic hazard; interfere with the visibility of any
traffic control device or sign; obstruct or impair the free passage of
pedestrians on sidewalks or other town or state rights-of-way at a vertical
clearance of less than seven feet; or endanger the life, health, safety or
property of the public;
   (H)   Burned or partially burned buildings and structures. Any building or
other structure which has been burned, partially burned or otherwise partially
destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to the safety of any person, is a
continuing fire hazard or which is structurally unsound to the extent that the
Town Building Official can reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of
personal or property injury to any person or property entering the premises;
   (I)   Storm or erosion damaged structures and resulting debris. The
existence of any of the following conditions associated with storm or erosion
damaged structures or their resultant debris shall constitute a public
nuisance:
      (1)   Damaged structure in danger of collapsing; or
      (2)   Damaged structure or debris from damaged structures where it can
reasonably be determined that there is a likelihood of personal or property
injury.
   (J)   Conditions violating Health Department rules. Any condition
detrimental to the public health, which violates the rules and regulations of
the County Health Department; and
   (K)   Any other conditions constituting a nuisance. In addition to the
conditions set out in this section, any other condition declared by the Town
Board of Commissioners to pose a threat to the public’s health or safety, also
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be prohibited within the town’s
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Town Manager and the town’s Code Enforcement Officer, or their designee
(s), are hereby charged with the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 93.05  COMPLAINTS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Town Manager or Code Enforcement Officer shall, upon notice from any
citizen or public official of the existence of any of the conditions described
in §
93.03, investigate to determine whether conditions exist as to constitute a
public nuisance as declared in §
93.03.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 93.06  NOTICE TO ABATE PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a determination that such conditions constituting a public
health nuisance exist, the Town Manager or Code Enforcement Officer shall
notify, in writing, the owner/responsible party as shown on the most recent
county tax records, occupant and/or person in possession of the premises in
question of the conditions constituting such public health nuisance and shall
order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the date the notice is
served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When
service is made, by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice may also
be sent by regular mail. Notice shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a
copy of the notice to abate public health nuisance shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
      (2)   Within the 15-day period mentioned above, the owner, occupant and/
or person in possession of the premises where the nuisance exists may appeal
the findings of the Town Manager or Code Enforcement Officer by giving written
notice of appeal to the Town Clerk, the appeal to stay the abatement of the
nuisances until a final determination by the Town Board of Commissioners. In
the event no appeal is taken, the town may proceed to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The Town Board of Commissioners in the event an appeal is taken as
provided in division (A) above may, after hearing all interested persons and
reviewing the findings of the Town Manager and/or the Code Enforcement Officer,
reverse those findings, but if the Town Board of Commissioners determines that
the findings of the Town Manager and/or Code Enforcement Officer are correct
and proper, it shall adopt an ordinance specifically declaring that the
condition on the property to be a danger and hazard to the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and a public nuisance
and directing the Town Manager and/or Code Enforcement Officer to cause the
conditions to be abated.
   (C)   An owner of real property whereupon, in the previous calendar year,
the town took remedial action at least three times during the previous calendar
year to abate a nuisance pursuant to §
93.03(E), shall be deemed a chronic violator. A chronic violator as defined
herein shall be notified by the Town Manager/Code Enforcement Officer if
property owned, occupied or in possession of the chronic violator is determined
to be in violation of §
93.03(E), the town may take action to remedy the violation without further
notice during the calendar year in which annual notice is given and the expense
of such action including any administrative fees shall become a lien upon the
property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes. The initial annual notice
required herein shall be served by registered or certified mail and shall be
complete upon delivery or deposit of the notice along with the appropriate fees
under the care of the United States postal service.
   (D)   Abatement of a public nuisance shall consist of taking whatever
appropriate steps are reasonably necessary to remove the condition or
conditions which result in the declaration of a public nuisance. Without
limitation the Town Manager and/or Code Enforcement Officer, in ordering the
abatement of a public nuisance, may require the removal of debris, rubbish,
accumulations of animal or vegetable matter, growth of weeds and grass, burned
or partially burned buildings, the isolation of the condition to be abated so
that access cannot be gained by persons or property which may be injured by the
nuisance or such other steps which are reasonably necessary to abate the
nuisance.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 93.07  FAILURE OF OWNER TO ABATE PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance,
fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within 15 days of being provided notice pursuant to §
93.06 of such order, he or she shall be subject to prosecution for violation of
this chapter in accordance with law and each day that such failure continues
shall be a separate offense. In addition, the Town Manager may have the
condition described in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and
all expenses incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of
the property.
   (B)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to mail a statement of such
charges to the owner with instructions that such charges are due and payable
within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
   (C)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges, such
charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance
existed and shall be collected as unpaid property taxes, as provided in G.S. §
160A-193.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08  ALTERNATE REMEDIES.
   The procedures set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
CHAPTER 94:  PARADES, RACES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
94.01   Permit required
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Exceptions
   
94.04   Application
   
94.05   Standards for issuance
   
94.06   Nondiscrimination
   
94.07   Notice of grant or denial of application
   
94.08   Alternative permit
   
94.09   Appeal procedure
   
94.10   Notice to town and other officials
   
94.11   Contents of permit
   
94.12   Duties of permitted
   
94.13   Prohibitions
   
94.14   Public conduct during parades, races or public assemblies
   
94.15   Revocation of permit
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in or conduct any parade, race or public assembly
without a permit issued by the Chief of Police or Town Manager.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the town, or his or her designee.
   PARADE. Any march, demonstration, procession or motorcade, consisting of
persons, animals or vehicles, or a combination thereof, upon the streets,
sidewalks or other public grounds within the town that interferes with the
normal flow or regulation of traffic upon the streets, sidewalks or other
public grounds.
   PARADE, RACE OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLY PERMIT. A permit as required by this
chapter.
   PARK. An area owned or maintained by the town and used for the purpose of
community gatherings, private functions and recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Any meeting, demonstration, picket line, rally or gathering
of more than 15 persons for a common purpose as a result of prior planning or
membership in an organization, association or other unit in or upon any street,
sidewalk or other public grounds in a place open to the general public.
   RACE. Any scheduled public event or gathering of persons for athletic events
that move from one location to another such as bicycle or running races.
   SIDEWALK. Any area or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of pedestrian traffic, whether or not it is paved.
   STREET. Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of vehicular traffic, including any berm or shoulder parkway, right-
of-way or median strip thereof.
   TOWN. The Town of Walnut Cove.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of Walnut Cove, or his or her designee.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   The permit requirement described in §
94.01 shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided that such conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.04  APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person seeking a parade, race or public assembly permit shall file
an application with the Chief of Police or Town Manager on forms provided by
the town and the application shall be signed by the applicant under oath. In
order to ensure the timely appeal in the event of a permit denial, it is
recommended that applications be filed at least 60 days prior to the event.
Nevertheless, any application filed within the minimum filing periods
prescribed in division (B) below shall be processed during business hours.
   (B)   For single, nonrecurring parades/races or public assemblies, an
application for a permit shall be filed with the town as follows:
      (1)   At least seven business days in advance of the proposed event for
parades or races of less than 200 participants and less than 30 vehicles and
animals;
      (2)   At least ten business days in advance of the proposed event for
parades or races of 200 or more participants or 30 or more vehicles and
animals;
      (3)   At least five calendar days in advance of the proposed event for
public assemblies of less than 100 participants which will not interfere with
the normal flow or regulation of vehicular traffic;
      (4)   At least seven business days in advance of the proposed event for
public assemblies of 100 or more participants or which will, regardless of
size, interfere with the normal flow or regulation of vehicular traffic; and
      (5)   No application shall be filed more than 180 days before the parade,
race or public assembly is proposed to commence.
   (C)   For parades, races or public assemblies held on a regular or recurring
basis at the same location, a separate permit shall be required for parades,
races or public assemblies for each two-week period.
   (D)   For parades, races or public assemblies held on a regular or recurring
basis at the same location, an application for a permit covering all such
parades, races or public assemblies during that calendar year may be filed with
the Chief of Police or Town Manager at least 60 and not more than 180 days
before the date and time at which the first such parade, race or public
assembly is proposed to commence. The Chief of Police or Town Manager may waive
the minimum 60-day period after due consideration of the factors specified in
division (B) above.
   (E)   The application for a parade, race or public assembly permit shall set
forth the following information in writing:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade, race or public assembly; this person should be the person
in charge or Chairperson of the parade, race or public assembly;
      (2)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the headquarters of
the organization for which the parade, race or public assembly is to be
conducted, if any, and the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The requested date(s) of the parade, race or public assembly;
      (4)   The location of the parade, race or public assembly and the route
to be traveled, including the starting point and the termination point;
      (5)   The hours when such parade, race or public assembly will start and
terminate;
      (6)   The statement as to whether the parade, race or public assembly
will occupy all or only a portion of the width of the streets or sidewalks
proposed to be traversed;
      (7)   The location by street of any assembly areas for such parade, race
or public assembly;
      (8)   The time at which units of the parade, race or public assembly will
begin to assemble at any such area;
      (9)   The intervals of space to be maintained between units of such
parade or public assembly;
      (10)   If the parade, race or public assembly is designed to be held by,
or on behalf of, any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such
permit shall file a letter from that person with the Chief of Police or Town
Manager authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her behalf;
      (11)   The type of parade, race or public assembly, including a
description of activities planned during the event;
      (12)   A description of any sound amplification equipment to be used in
connection with the parade, race or public assembly;
      (13)   The approximate number of participants (spectators are by
definition not participants), including the type and number of animals and
vehicles;
      (14)   The approximate number of spectators reasonably anticipated;
      (15)   A designation of any public facilities or equipment to be
utilized;
      (16)   Where the event is in an area covering two blocks or less of
sidewalks, streets or other public property, the addresses of any properties
that abut the location of the parade, race or public assembly;
      (17)   Where the event is in an area covering two blocks or less of
sidewalks, streets or other public property, a signed statement by the permit
applicant stating that all the addresses of any properties that abut the
location of the parade, race or public assembly, have received notification of
the event; and
      (18)   Any additional information that the Chief of Police or Town
Manager finds reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a
permit should issue.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.05  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall determine whether, and to
what extent, additional police protection is reasonably necessary for a parade,
race or public assembly for traffic control and public safety.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall base this decision on the
following factors:
      (1)   Staging.
         (a)   The number of streets or sidewalks to be controlled and/or
closed;
         (b)   The type of street or sidewalk to be controlled and/or closed,
which shall take into consideration the vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow
on the street or sidewalk;
         (c)   The time of day and day of week of the event;
         (d)   The amount of vehicular and pedestrian traffic required to be
rerouted as a result of the event;
         (e)   The number of electric traffic control devices that are required
to be operated manually by police officers as a result of the event;
         (f)   The number of traffic/pedestrian control cones and parade
barricades that are required to be used as a result of the event;
         (g)   The characteristics of the event and the area of the event, to
include the type and volume of the event traffic and the speed limits of the
area. The type of traffic could include, but is not limited to, types of
vehicles, pedestrian and animals in the event; and
         (h)   The number of supervisors with the requirement that there be at
least one supervisor if there are five or more officers assigned to the event.
      (2)   Event control point.
         (a)   The number and size of intersections to be controlled or closed;
and
         (b)   The number of supervisors required as set forth above.
      (3)   Event.
         (a)   Whether or not the sponsors are requesting a ceremonial parade
escort;
         (b)   The size of the event in terms of the number of participants,
spectators, vehicles and animals;
         (c)   The time of day and day of week of the event;
         (d)   The number of residences and businesses that are affected by the
event; and
         (e)   The type of intersections that are affected by the event.
      (4)   Disbanding. Size and characteristics of the event.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall issue a permit as provided
for herein when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade, race or public assembly will not
substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other pedestrian or
vehicular traffic contiguous to its route or location;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade, race or public assembly will not require
the diversion of so great a number of town police officers to properly police
the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto that the deployment of
police services for the proposed parade, race or public assembly would have an
immediate and adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and
property;
      (3)   The concentration of vehicles, persons and animals at public
assembly points of the parade, race or public assembly will not unduly
interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to,
areas contiguous to such parade, race or public assembly;
      (4)   The conduct of the parade, race or public assembly is not
reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property and will not, on its
face, violate any federal, state or town law, regulation or ordinance;
      (5)   The parade, race or public assembly is scheduled to move from its
point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and without
unreasonable delays en route;
      (6)   Adequate sanitation and other required health facilities are or
will be made available in or adjacent to any parade, race or public assembly
areas;
      (7)   There are sufficient parking places near the beginning and end
sites of the parade, race or public assembly to accommodate the number of
vehicles reasonably expected;
      (8)   No parade, race or public assembly permit application for the same
time and location is already granted, or has been received and will be granted,
and no event listed in §
94.03 is already scheduled for the same time and location;
      (9)   The conduct of the parade, race or public assembly will not
interfere with previously scheduled construction or maintenance projects upon
or along streets or sidewalks;
      (10)   No parade, race or public assembly permit application for the same
time but different location is already granted or has been received and will be
granted, and the police resources required for that prior parade, race or
public assembly are so great that, in combination with the subsequent proposed
permit, the resulting deployment of police services would have an immediate and
adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and property; and
      (11)   No event is scheduled elsewhere in the town where the police
resources required for that event are so great that the deployment of police
services for the proposed parade, race or public assembly would have an
immediate and adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and
property.
   (D)   No permit shall be granted that allows for the erection or placement
of any structure, whether permanent or temporary, on a town street, sidewalk or
right-of-way unless advance approval for the erection or replacement of the
structure is obtained from the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   No permit shall be granted that allows a parade, race or public
assembly to occur between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (F)   In determining whether to grant or deny a permit, the Chief of Police
or Town Manager shall not consider:
      (1)   The content of the speech, message, views or expression of the
parade, race or public assembly or its participants; and/or
      (2)   The potential conduct of spectators and other nonparticipants in
response or reaction to the content of the speech, message, views or expression
of the parade, race or public assembly or its participants.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.06  NONDISCRIMINATION.
   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall uniformly consider each
application upon its merits and shall not discriminate in granting or denying
permits under this chapter based upon speech content or upon political,
religious, ethnic, race, disability, sexual orientation or gender related
grounds.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.07  NOTICE OF GRANT OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall act promptly upon a timely
filed application for a parade, race or public assembly permit but in no event
shall grant or deny a permit less than 48 hours prior to the event.
Applications filed more than 30 days in advance of the proposed event shall be
processed within seven days. Applications filed more than 60 days in advance of
the event shall be processed within 21 days.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police or Town Manager waives the minimum filing
period and accepts for processing an untimely application, he or she shall act
upon the application as expeditiously as possible, but must grant or deny the
permit prior to the commencement of the proposed event.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police or Town Manager disapproves the application, he
or she shall promptly notify the applicant of his or her action in writing,
either by personal delivery or certified mail, and state the reasons for
denial.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.08  ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager, in denying an application for a
parade, race or public assembly permit, may authorize the conduct of the
parade, race or public assembly at a date, time, location or route different
from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate
permit shall, within five days after notice of the action of the Chief of
Police or Town Manager, file a written notice of acceptance with the Chief of
Police or Town Manager.
   (B)   An alternate parade, race or public assembly permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade, race or public
assembly permit issued under this chapter.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.09  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade,
race or public assembly permit to the Town Board of Commissioners. The denied
applicant shall make the appeal within five days after receipt of the denial by
filing a written notice with the Chief of Police or Town Manager and a copy of
the notice with the Town Clerk. The Town Board of Commissioners shall act upon
the appeal at the next scheduled meeting following receipt of the notice of
appeal.
   (B)   In the event that the Town Board of Commissioners rejects an
applicant’s appeal, the applicant may file an immediate request for review with
a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.10  NOTICE TO TOWN AND OTHER OFFICIALS.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade, race or public assembly permit,
the Chief of Police or Town Manager shall send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The Fire Chief;
   (C)   The Director of the Department of Public Works; and
   (D)   The Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.11  CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade, race or public assembly permit shall state the following
information:
   (A)   Starting and approximate ending time;
   (B)   Minimum speed of parade units;
   (C)   Maximum speed of parade units;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between parade units;
   (E)   The portions of the streets that may be occupied by the parade, race
or public assembly;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade or race in miles or fractions
thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as the Chief of Police or Town Manager shall
find necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.12  DUTIES OF PERMITTED.
   (A)   A permitted event hereunder shall comply with all permit directions
and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances; and
   (B)   The parade, race or public assembly Chairperson or other person in
charge of such activity shall carry the parade, race or public assembly permit
upon their person during the conduct of the parade, race or public assembly.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.13  PROHIBITIONS.
   The following prohibitions shall apply to all parades, races and public
assemblies:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present or conduct any
parade, race or public assembly without first having obtained a permit as
herein provided;
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a parade, race
or public assembly for which the person knows a permit has not been granted;
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the Chairperson or any person in charge of,
or responsible for the conduct of, a duly licensed parade, race or public
assembly to knowingly fail to comply with any condition of the permit;
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any parade, race or
public assembly activity that would constitute a substantial hazard to the
public safety or that would materially interfere with or endanger the public
peace or rights of residents to the quiet and peaceful enjoyment of their
property;
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any parade, race
or public assembly to carry or possess any length of metal, lumber, wood or
similar material for purposes of displaying a sign, poster, plaque or notice,
unless such object is two inches or less in thickness and two inches or less in
width, or if not generally rectangular in shape, such object shall not exceed
two inches in its thickest dimension;
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in a parade, race or
public assembly to utilize sound amplification equipment at decibel levels that
exceed those limits imposed by federal, state or town law, regulation or
ordinance;
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive or cause to be
ridden or driven, any animal or any animal-drawn vehicle upon any public
street, unless specifically authorized by the permit; and
   (H)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any individual or group participating
in a parade, race or public assembly to conduct such parade, race or public
assembly outside of the scope of the issued permit.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the scope of the permit is the
information provided on the application as required in §
94.04(E) of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14  PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES, RACES OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede, or interfere
with any parade, race or public assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating or used in a parade, race or public assembly.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade, race or public assembly when such vehicles or persons are
in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade, race or public
assembly.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall have the authority, when
reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a
street constituting a part of the route of a parade, race or public assembly.
The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall post signs to that effect, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted
in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall have the authority to revoke a
parade, race or public assembly permit instantly upon violation of the
conditions or standards for issuance as set forth in this chapter or when a
public emergency arises where the police resources required for that emergency
are so great that deployment of police services for the parade, race or public
assembly would have an immediate and adverse effect upon the welfare and safety
of persons or property.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of any section of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter shall also be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 per
violation.
(Ord. O-2007-21, passed 10-2-2007) 
CHAPTER 95:  YARD SALES
Section
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Regulations
   
95.03   Coverage
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD SALES or GARAGE SALE.  A display and sale from a residence of
residential property of personal property which has been owned or previously
used.
(Res. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 95.02  REGULATIONS.
   No person shall conduct any yard sale or garage sale without first obtaining
a permit therefore from the town. All such sales shall be subject to the
following rules and regulations:
   (A)   Permits.  All persons conducting such sale shall obtain a permit
therefore from Town Clerk.  Applications for such permit shall be made to Town
Clerk in such form as may be required by the town and shall be accompanied by a
permit fee in the amount of $5.
   (B)   Consignment sales prohibited.  No one shall accept or take in for
sale, any goods from any commercial business or enterprise on a consignment
basis for sale in a yard sale.
   (C)   Signs.  No signs advertising such sales shall be placed on any
property other than that of the residence of the person conducting such sale.
   (D)   Number limited.  Not more than two such sales per year shall be held
at the premises if occupied by the same family or any member of such family. 
No single sale shall be conducted for longer than two consecutive weekends, or
more than 72 hours in a single week.
   (E)   Hours.  Yard sales or garage sales may be conducted during daylight
hours only.
(Res. passed 12-9-1980)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  COVERAGE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect persons selling
goods pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or persons
acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(Res. passed 12-9-1980)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be recovered by the town.  Violators
shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within 72 hours.
   (B)   Each days continuing violation of this chapter shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
(Res. passed 12-9-1980)
CHAPTER 96:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Generally
   
96.01   Adoption of North Carolina State Building Code
   
96.02   Fire Marshal office established
   
96.03   Duties of Fire Marshal; approval of construction plans; and general
fire safety regulations
   
96.04   Congregating in streets around fires; interference with work of Fire
Department
   
96.05   Discarding burning objects
   
96.06   Inspection and fee schedule
   
96.07   Identification placard for hazardous materials
   
96.08   Automatic telephone alarm devices
   
96.09   Approval of hydrant locations and distribution for new subdivisions
   
96.10   Applications and permits
Fire Limits
   
96.25   General rules
   
96.26   Authorization
   
96.27   Enforcement
   
96.28   Boundaries
   
96.29   Adoption and amendment
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 96.01  ADOPTION OF NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
that certain code known as the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, Volume V,
including appendixes. A copy of such code is on file in the office of the Town
Clerk and such code is hereby incorporated in this subchapter as fully as if
set out verbatim in this section.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 96.02  FIRE MARSHAL OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The office of Fire Marshal is hereby established and shall operate under the
supervision of the Town Manager. The Town Manager shall have the authority to
appoint the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 96.03  DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL; APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION PLANS; AND  GENERAL
FIRE SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General duties of Fire Marshal. It shall be the duty of the Fire
Marshal to enforce all laws and ordinances covering the following:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
      (3)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other private
fire alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment;
      (4)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
      (5)   The maintenance of protection and the elimination of hazards in
buildings and structures, including those under construction;
      (6)   The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate, from time to time, for any purpose; and
      (7)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
   (B)   Additional duties of Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal shall have such
other powers and perform such other duties as are set forth in other sections
of this chapter and as may be conferred and imposed from time to time by law or
by direction of the Town Manager.
   (C)   Approval of building plans. Where buildings, excluding residential
occupancies under four stories, are required by ordinances adopted by the town
to have fire protection and other safety to life requirements included in the
construction, or to have facilities for protection against conditions hazardous
to life or property in use or occupancy, building plans shall be submitted to
the Fire Marshal. The plans must be approved by the Fire Marshal or his or her
duly authorized agent as being in compliance with the Fire Prevention Code
before a permit may be issued and before construction begins. The Fire Marshal
may issue permits for footings prior to actual construction on portions of
buildings regulated by the Fire Prevention Code.
   (D)   Certificate of compliance for sprinkler and standpipe systems. All
persons, upon completion of any installation, alteration or renovation of any
sprinkler or standpipe system, shall submit a letter certifying compliance with
the state building code and applicable required standards to the Fire Marshal.
   (E)   Approval of plans for alarm systems and fire extinguishing systems.
Plans for any and all fire alarm systems, sprinkler systems, standpipe systems,
fire extinguishing equipment and automatic fire extinguishing systems shall be
submitted to the Fire Marshal for approval prior to the installation of such
systems in the town, and such fire protection equipment shall be installed in
compliance with applicable code provisions.
   (F)   Open burning. No person shall kindle or maintain any open fire or
authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private properly, or
on or in any public ground within the town limits, unless permitted under
division (G) below. During construction or demolition of buildings or
structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on
premises or in the town limits. The only exceptions to this section shall be
fires that serve the purpose of training as authorized by the Fire Marshal, or
fires necessary for the proper maintenance of the town’s wetlands system
wastewater treatment plant as authorized by the Town Manager and permitted by
the Fire Marshal.
   (G)   Burning permits. The Fire Marshal shall issue all permits for open
burning within the city limits and may place conditions and limitations on the
permit to protect the public. No permit shall be issued for the burning of yard
waste if the city provides yard waste collection service. Burning for the
clearing of land shall be prohibited. The burning of the top layer of
vegetative matter prior to planting a field or garden may be permitted. The
time and quantity of material to be burned may be restricted by the permit.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04  CONGREGATING IN STREETS AROUND FIRES; INTERFERENCE WITH WORK OF FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate in the streets, lanes,
alleys or squares next to a fire, so as to interfere with the work of the Fire
Department, or for any person to interfere with any member of the Fire
Department or to obstruct the work of the Fire Department, in any way, at or
during a fire or while answering an alarm of fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, not a member of the Fire
Department, to board any fire engine, truck or other fire apparatus en route to
or from any fire, without permission of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  DISCARDING BURNING OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either willfully or negligently, to
throw down or drop any lighted match, cigar, cigarette or other burning object
in combustible material or in close proximity thereto, when such person does
not remain to control such burning as may develop.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06  INSPECTION AND FEE SCHEDULE.
   In order to preserve and to protect public health and safety, and to satisfy
the requirements of G.S. §§ 153A-364 and 160A-424, with respect to political
subdivisions assuming inspection duties, as set out in G.S. §§ 153A-351 and
160A-411, and to satisfy the requirements of the State Building Code, the
following inspection schedule shall apply to all buildings within the town
except those buildings listed under Section 103, “Exceptions to Applicability”
in the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume V, Fire Prevention:
   (A)   General inspection use permits.
      (1)   All buildings required by the N.C. Fire Code to be inspected shall
obtain a general inspection use permit. The frequency rate of the inspections
is based upon the minimum inspection schedule required by the N.C. Fire Code.
Operational permits required by the N.C. Fire Code will be included in the
general inspection use permit and will be listed on their permit as a provision
(s). Departure from that type of operation would require another permit to be
obtained. Operations or processes listed in the fee schedule as a special
operations use permit are not included in the general inspection use permits.
The various general inspection use permits and fees are as follows:
12-Month Inspections (Valid for One Year)
Assembly Square Feet Fee
12-Month Inspections (Valid for One Year)
Assembly           Square Feet    Fee
Hazardous          0 - 7,500      $30
High rise          7,501 - 20,000 $60
Institutional      20,001 and up  $90
*   Residential buildings including one- and two-family dwellings and only
interior common area of multi-family dwellings
24-Month Inspections (Valid for Two Years)
Assembly           Square Feet    Fee
Factory industrial 0 - 7,500      $25
Educational        7,501 - 20,000 $75
                  20,000 and up  $75
36-Month Inspections (Valid for Three Years)
Assembly           Square Feet    Fee
Business           0 - 7,500      $20
Mercantile         7,501 - 20,000 $40
Storage            20,000 and up  $60
Churches/synagogues are fee-exempt
Multi-tenant buildings will only be permitted if the business has a common
entrance/exit, low turnover and one owner
 
      (2)   Buildings not fitting into one of the three general inspection use
permit categories will be classified miscellaneous. Based upon the degree of
hazard by the authority having jurisdiction, the building will be assigned to
the appropriate general inspection use permit category and will follow its
schedule and fees.
   (B)   Special operations permit.
Fire Code Section Permit Type or Plan Review Type Fee
Fire Code Section Permit Type or Plan Review Type             Fee
105.6.1           Aerosol products                            $25
105.6.2           Amusement buildings                         $25
105.6.4           Carnivals and fairs                         $25
105.6.6           Combustible dust producing operations       $25
105.6.8           Compressed gases                            $25
105.6.9           Covered mall buildings                      $25
105.6.10          Cryogenic fluids                            $25
105.6.11          Cutting and welding                         $25
105.6.13          Exhibits and trade shows                    $25
105.6.14          Explosives                                  $25
105.6.16          Flammable and combustible liquids 1-10      $25
105.6.19          Fumigation and thermal insecticidal fogging $25
105.6.20          Hazardous materials                         $25
105.6.22          High-piled storage                          $25
105.6.23          Hot work operations                         $25
105.6.26          Liquid-or-gas-fueled vehicles in buildings  $25
105.6.32          Open flames and candles                     $25
105.6.35          Private fire hydrant                        $25
105.6.36          Pyrotechnic special effects material        $25
105.6.41          Spraying or dipping                         $25
105.6.43          Temporary membrane structures               $50
105.6.44          Tire rebuilding                             $25
No provision of the general inspection use permit shall exceed 1.5 times the
cost of original general inspection fee
 
   (C)   Fire Department construction permits.
Fire Code Section Permit Type or Plan Review Type Fee
Fire Code Section Permit Type or Plan Review Type                     Fee
105.7.1           Fire extinguishing system system plan review        $100
                  (construction permit)
105.7.2           Battery systems (construction permit)               $50
105.7.3           Compressed gases (construction permit)              $50
105.7.4           Fire alarm system plan review (construction permit) $100
105.7.5           Fire pumps (construction permit)                    $50
105.7.6           Storage tank system (construction permit)           $100
105.7.7           Hazardous materials (construction permit)           $50
105.7.8           Industrial ovens (construction permit)              $50
105.7.10          Private fire hydrants (construction permit)         $50
105.7.11          Spraying or dipping (construction permit)           $50
105.7.12          Standpipe systems (construction permit)             $50
105.7.13          Temporary membrane structures (construction permit) $50
Failure to obtain proper permits or final inspection could result in a
civil citation fine up to $500.
 
   (D)   Requested tests, inspections or services.
 
Fire flow test                           $20
Copies of fire reports                   $5
Investigation report with pictures       $10
Stand-by firefighter (four-hour minimum) $15/hour (collected on behalf of the
(number of fire-fighters needed-deemed   Fire Department)
by code official)   
Hazardous material - spills/fires        Actual cost
Fireworks stand-by (Fire Department)  $100 (collected on behalf of the Fire
                                         Department)
 
   (E)   Civil citations.
 
1st re-inspection (notice of non- No fee
compliance issued)
2nd re-inspection                 $25 + $50 for each outstanding Fire Code
                                  violation
3rd re-inspection                 Same as 2nd re-inspection
                                  $25 + $50 for each outstanding Fire Code
4th re-inspection                 violation, plus civil action (court)
                                  misdemeanor charges
 
   (F)   Life safety G.S. § 143-138(h).
      (1)   Locked and/or blocked means of egress.
      (2)   Occupancy limit violation.
      (3)   Fire protection systems not up to standard.
      (4)   Improperly stored hazardous materials.
 
1st per violation           $100
2nd per violation           $250
3rd per violation           $500/business closed and civil action
Parking in a fire lane      $50
Illegal burning 1st offense $50
Illegal burning 2nd offense $100
Illegal burning 3rd offense $200 +$ 100 for each subsequent offense thereafter
 
   (G)   False alarm.  Nuisance alarms will be investigated by the Fire Marshal
and fines up to $500 can be issued.
   (H)   Plan review fee.
 Fee Per Square Foot Square Feet
                   Fee Per Square Foot Square Feet
Assembly           $.07                Up to 5,000 square feet
   Plus         $.05                5,001 - 20,000
   Plus         $.03                20,001 and up
Business           $.07                Up to 15,000
   Plus         $.05                15,001 - 30,000
   Plus         $.03                30,001 - 45,000
   Plus         $.01                45,001 and up
Educational        $.07                Up to 5,000
   Plus         $.05                5,001 - 10,000
   Plus         $.03                10,001 and up
Factory/industrial $.07                Up to 15,000
   Plus                             
   Plus         $.03                30,001 and up
Hazardous          $.07                Up to 20,000
   Plus         $.05                20,001 and up
Mercantile         $.07                Up to 15,000
   Plus         $.05                15,001- 30,000
   Plus         $.03                30,001 - 45,000
   Plus         $.01                45,001 and up
Storage            $.071                
If the building is protected by a sprinkler system, add $.01 per square foot
 
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07  IDENTIFICATION PLACARD FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Any person operating a business, having in his or her possession, storing or
using, in any amount, material classified as a dangerous material in any
building or on any premises shall place a placard upon the material therein or
upon any premises. The placard shall identify the material by a coded system of
numbers from zero to four, the numbers of which will identify the severity of
the hazard, with a zero indicating no special hazard and the higher number of
four indicating a severe hazard. The placard shall be diamond shaped and also
provide a color code as further identification of the materials therein as set
forth in NFPA Pamphlet 704M, Identification System, Fire Hazard of Materials
1990.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 96.08  AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE ALARM DEVICES.
   (A)   The term TELEPHONE NUMBER as used in this section, includes any
additional number assigned by a public utility company engaged in the business
of providing communication services and facilities to be used by means of a
rotary or other system to connect with the subscriber having such primary
number when the primary telephone number is in use.
   (B)   No person shall use or operate, attempt to use or operate, or cause to
be used or operated, or arrange, adjust, program or otherwise provide for or
install, any device or combination of devices that will, upon activation,
either mechanically, electronically or by any other automatic means, initiate
an intrastate call and deliver a recorded message to any telephone number
assigned to any police or fire station of the city.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09  APPROVAL OF HYDRANT LOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION FOR NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   Prior to the Department of Planning and Inspections issuing a building
permit for new construction for single-family or multi-family subdivisions, it
shall be required that the Fire Marshal approve and accept the proposed hydrant
locations and hydrant distribution for the subdivision.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 96.10  APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   As authorized in Section 104.2 of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code,
the Fire Marshal or his or her designee will accept applications for permits
and issue permits for operations regulated by Section 105 of the Fire
Prevention Code and permits required by the authority having jurisdiction, the
city. Fees accompanying these permits and other services provided by the Fire
Marshal are detailed in §
96.07.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)
FIRE LIMITS
§ 96.25  GENERAL RULES.
   The town, as required by G.S. Chapter 160A-435, Part 5, Article 19, hereby
establishes and defines by the primary fire limits; the defined area of which
shall comply with the applicable provisions of G.S. 160A-435 through 160A-440.
(Ord. O-2005-03, passed 6-29-2005)
§ 96.26  AUTHORIZATION.
   The town, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-360, with the adoption of G.S.
Chapter 9, Article 10 (establishing an extraterritorial planning jurisdiction),
is hereby authorized to exercise all the powers granted to the town by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 19, providing, however, that the town shall not exercise
any power conferred by said article that said town is not exercising within its
corporate limits.
(Ord. O-2005-03, passed 6-29-2005)
§ 96.27  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Restrictions within primary fire limits.  In compliance with G.S. §
160A-435, every incorporated town shall pass one or more ordinances
establishing and defining fire limits, which shall include the principal
business portions of the town and which shall be known as primary fire limits,
with the following restrictions:
      (1)   Within the primary fire limits, no frame or wooden building or
structure or addition thereto shall hereafter be erected, altered or moved
(either into the limits or from one place to another within the limits), except
by permit issued by the Inspection Department and approved by the Commissioner
of Insurance.
      (2)   The Town Council may make additional regulations for the
prevention, extinguishment or mitigation of fires within the primary fire
limits.
      (3)   If the Town Council shall fail or refuse to establish and define
the primary fire limits of
the town as required by law, after having such failure or refusal called to
their attention in writing by the State Commissioner of Insurance, the
Commissioner shall have the power to establish limits by making a determination
that they are necessary and in the public interest.
   (B)   Department of Planning and Inspections.  It shall be the duty of the
Department of Planning and Inspections to make all inspections necessary and
determine whether or not the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Penalties.  It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to fail or
refuse to comply with any final order or direction of the Code Enforcement
Officer(s). Further, the town may initiate any appropriate civil or criminal
action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate violations of this
subchapter.
(Ord. O-2005-03, passed 6-29-2005)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.28  BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the town’s primary fire limits, in compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations, shall at all times be on file with the Town
Clerk, and set forth in a written description, attached to Ordinance O-2005-03
as Exhibit “A” and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-2005-03, passed 6-29-2005)
§ 96.29  ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT.
   Upon adoption by the Town Council, this subchapter shall take effect and in
so doing, establish and define the primary fire limits more particularly
described in Exhibit “A”. The Town Council, in adopting and amending from time
to time, this subchapter, shall follow the procedures outlined in G.S. Chapter
160A-364.
(Ord. O-2005-03, passed 6-29-2005)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to
§
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
96.01 through
96.10 shall be issued by the Fire Marshall and subject the responsible party to
the following penalties: any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted or approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days and
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $500 for each
occurrence.  Each and every day the violation continues shall be a separate and
distinct offense and/or occurrence.  Each citation shall be paid within 72
hours of issuance.  The town may also, and in addition to, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-2011-24, passed 3-1-2011)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TAXICABS
      
111.   LICENSES GENERALLY
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  TAXICABS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Operator’s license
   
110.03   Inspection of vehicles
   
110.04   Certificate of inspection
   
110.05   Name of owner to be painted on vehicle
   
110.06   Transfer of permits
   
110.07   Schedule of rates
   
110.08   Soliciting passengers
   
110.09   Premises used
   
110.10   Permit for installation of curb taxicab stand telephone
   
110.11   Revocation of permits
   
110.12   Driver’s permit
   
110.13   Liability insurance or bond
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the Town of Walnut Cove.
   CURB TAXICAB STAND TELEPHONE. All telephone installations serving taxicab
operators at designated taxicab stands, and located upon or within any street
or highway of the town.
   DRIVER’S PERMIT. The permit issued after examination, authorizing a person
to drive a motor vehicle or taxicab operating under this chapter.
   OPERATOR’S LICENSE. The permit or license issued to a person who owns a
motor vehicle or taxicab to be used for hire and transport.
   STREET. Every street, alley or driveway, whether improved or unimproved,
which has been dedicated to the public and under the charge and control of the
town.
   TOWN. The Town of Walnut Cove.
   VEHICLE FOR HIRE or TAXICAB. Includes every vehicle driven or propelled by
gasoline, electric motor or other mechanical devices other than motor busses
operating along regular routes or schedules which shall be used for the purpose
of carrying, transporting or conveying of any person from one place to another,
and which is designed to seat comfortably not more than nine persons, for which
service a charge or fee is made.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
§ 110.02  OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Before any person shall operate a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire on
the streets of the town, he or she shall obtain a permit from the Board to
engage in the business of operating such taxicab or motor vehicle for hire, and
he or she shall file a written application for such permit or license, and
after receiving such license shall file an additional application with the
Board for every additional taxicab or motor vehicle proposed to be used in
connection with said business.
   (B)   The application for such permit or license shall be filed with the
Board and shall contain substantially the following information:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   A statement to the effect that the applicant is familiar with the
ordinances of the town relating to liability insurance, drivers’ regulations,
regulation or rates and other matters pertaining to the operation of taxicabs;
      (3)   A complete list of the applicant’s motor equipment showing year,
make, model and carrying capacity of each unit;
      (4)   A financial statement showing the assets, liabilities and net worth
of the applicant;
      (5)   A statement showing the proposed fares for the transportation of
persons and property;
      (6)   A statement showing the applicant has made complete arrangements
for off-street parking of all motor vehicles;
      (7)   A statement of the experience of the applicant in conducting a
taxicab business; and
      (8)   A full statement of facts which, if supported by substantial
testimony at a hearing, will support a finding of public convenience and
necessity for the operation of the taxicab.
   (C)   The Board shall determine whether or not a permit or license shall be
issued and whether public convenience and necessity requires the issuance of
such a permit. In determining whether the public convenience and necessity
require the franchise of such taxicab, the Board shall, among other things,
take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require such
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates to be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made of off-street parking of said taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   Such other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   After filing an application for a permit or license to operate a taxicab,
the applicant thereof must submit and present each vehicle for which an
application has been made to a mechanic designated by the Board at a place and
time to be fixed by the said mechanic, for an inspection of the brakes, lights,
horn and all other safety features of the vehicle, and for the inspection of
the interior of the taxicab with respect to the general condition of the
upholstering, floor covering and the general cleanliness thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
§ 110.04  CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   If, upon examination of the vehicle for which an application for a permit
has been made, it is found by the designated mechanic, to be in proper
condition, he or she shall issue and cause to be affixed to the windshield of
said vehicle a certificate of inspection of the sticker type and in such form
as may be approved by the Board. Such sticker shall be effective for one year
upon the expiration of such certificate the owner and operator of such taxicab
upon the streets of the town shall present and submit such vehicle for
reinspection as provided in §
110.03, and new inspection certificates shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of said section. No taxicab shall be operated on the streets of the
town without displaying said certificate of inspection.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
§ 110.05  NAME OF OWNER TO BE PAINTED ON VEHICLE.
   Every cab or taxicab operated upon the streets of the town shall have the
name of the owner thereof and, at his or her option, his or her address and
telephone number painted in letters at least two inches high upon each side of
the main portion of the body in a manner plainly visible at all times.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   No permit granted by the Board to operate a taxicab or for hire vehicle
carrying passengers within the town shall be transferable, and in case the
operator who has secured a permit to operate such a taxicab or for hire vehicle
disposes of such vehicle, or the ownership and possession passes from him or
her by any means, the permit theretofore issued to him or her for the operation
of such taxicab or for hire vehicle shall thereupon become null and void, and
in the event any taxicab or for hire vehicle, for the operation of which the
owner has secured a permit as provided by law, shall become damaged or worn out
or for other reason is rendered unfit for use and its use discontinued by such
owner for taxicab or for hire purposes, and such owner desires to operate
another vehicle in its place, then such owner shall file an affidavit with the
Town Clerk setting forth the fact that such vehicle has been discontinued in
use and that such other vehicle has replaced it. Such affidavit shall be filed
before the vehicle replacing the one whose use is discontinued shall be
operated as a taxicab or for hire vehicle.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   Taxi rates shall be determined from time to time as needed by the Board of
Commissioners.  Such rates shall be set forth in a schedule on file in the
office of the Town Clerk and shall be available for public inspection during
routine office hours.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
§ 110.08  SOLICITING PASSENGERS.
   No person shall solicit passengers for a cab or taxicab on the public
streets or sidewalks except the driver thereof when sitting upon the driver’s
seat of his or her vehicle.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  PREMISES USED.
   The premises used for the operation of a cab or taxicab business shall be
adequate for the storage of all cabs or taxicabs operated. Each operator and
driver shall comply strictly with all parking ordinances of the town. The
location of such place of business shall be approved by the Board for safety
and convenience of the public and said location shall not be changed without
approval of the Board.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10  PERMIT FOR INSTALLATION OF CURB TAXICAB STAND TELEPHONE.
   No owner shall install, remove, alter or cause to be installed, removed or
altered, any curb taxicab stand telephone without first having applied for and
received from the Board a permit for such installation, removal or alteration.
Installation of such curb taxicab stand telephone shall conform to the
conditions set forth in the permit authorizing such installation.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11  REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Board shall have the right to revoke a permit or license issued to any
operator either wholly or for any given number of taxicabs or passenger for
hire vehicles: if such operator to whom a permit is issued is convicted of a
felony or a violation of any federal or state statute relating to the
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors, or a violation of any federal or
state statute relating to prostitution, or a violation of any federal or state
statute relating to the use, possession or sale of narcotic drugs; or if he or
she has been guilty of repeated violations of the traffic laws or ordinances;
of if he or she has become a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic
drugs. And in the event the operator who holds such permit or license is a
corporation, association or partnership, the right of revocation of such permit
or license issued to such corporation, association or partnership shall be
retained by the Board and the provisions of this section shall apply in equal
force if the person in charge of the management of such corporation,
association or partnership shall be guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions set forth in this section, when in such violation any property
employed by the permittee in carrying on the said business shall be used
directly or indirectly by such managing agent or director.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
§ 110.12  DRIVER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. No person shall drive any cab or taxicab carrying passengers
for hire from place to place within the corporate limits of the town unless
that person shall have first applied to and secured from the Board a permit to
drive a taxicab.
   (B)   Application. The application required of applicants to drive a
taxicab, as provided in division (A) above, shall be made in writing and shall
state the applicant’s name, address, physical condition, physical description,
former employers, court record and state chauffeur’s license number. Such
application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
   (C)   Duty of the Town Attorney. The Attorney for the town is hereby charged
with the duty of investigating the facts stated in said application and shall
report his or her findings and recommendations to the Board.
   (D)   Issuance. If the Board finds that the applicant has not been convicted
of a felony, a violation or any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors, any federal or state statute
relating to prostitution, any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of narcotic drugs, and that the applicant is a citizen of
the United States and is not a habitual violator of traffic laws, the Board
shall issue a permit to the applicant to drive a taxicab, such permit to be
signed on behalf of the Board by the Town Clerk.
   (E)   Suspension and revocation of permit. At any time after the issuance of
a permit to any person to drive a cab or taxicab, the Board may revoke said
permit, it the person holding such permit is convicted of a felony, a violation
of any federal or state statute relating to the use, possession or sale of
narcotic drugs, repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances, a violation
of any state or federal statute relating to prostitution, or become a habitual
user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; provided, that upon the first
conviction within 12 months after the issuance of a permit, or within any
subsequent 12-month period, for a violation of the traffic laws of the state or
traffic ordinances of the town involving a moving taxicab, the driver convicted
shall surrender his or her permit to drive for a period of 30 days and shall
not operate a taxicab within the corporate limits of the town during the said
30-day period. Upon a second conviction within 12 months after the issuance of
a permit, or any subsequent 12-months period, for the violation of a traffic
law of the state or traffic ordinance of the town involving a moving taxicab,
the driver convicted shall surrender his or her permit to drive a taxicab for a
period of 60 days and shall not operate a taxicab within the corporate limits
of the town during said 60-day period; upon three convictions for violations of
the laws of the state, including the ordinances of the town, within 12 months
after the issuance of a permit, or upon three such convictions within any
subsequent 12-month period; provided such convictions relate to violations of
traffic ordinances or laws, the permit issued to such convicted person shall be
revoked.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13  LIABILITY INSURANCE OR BOND.
   (A)   Before any person shall operate a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire on
the streets, alleys and highways of the town he or she shall furnish and keep
in effect for each taxicab or other such motor vehicle so operated a policy of
insurance or surety bond, with personal or corporate surety whose solvency
shall at all times be subject to the approval of the Board, to be conditioned
on such operator responding in damages for any liability incurred on account of
any injury to persons or damage to property resulting from the operation of any
such taxicab or other motor vehicle for hire in amounts as follows: $10,000
covering injuries to one person in any single accident; $20,000 covering
injuries to more than one person in any single accident; and $25,000 covering
property damage in any single accident.
   (B)   Such policy of insurance or surety bond shall be filed with the Town
Clerk as a condition precedent to the operation of any such taxicab or other
motor vehicle for hire over the streets of the town.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of $50 for each offense or violation, and each
day said offense occurs or continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing penalty, every such taxicab or for hire
passenger vehicle which shall be driven either by the owner or by a driver in
violation of any of the provisions of §§
110.02, 110.05, 110.09 or 110.12(A), (B) or (E) shall be required to be kept
out of operation as a taxicab on the streets of the town until such time as the
same shall be driven by the owner, operator or driver who has complied with the
provisions of this section or sections of this chapter violated.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1964)
CHAPTER 111:  LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Construction of this chapter
Levy
   
111.15   Levy of tax
   
111.16   Who must pay tax
   
111.17   Period of license; due date; annual licenses
   
111.18   Proration of tax
   
111.19   Refunds and fee adjustments
   
111.20   Separate businesses
   
111.21   Computation of tax based on gross receipts
   
111.22   Exemptions
   
111.23   Approved payment plan
Licenses
   
111.35   Application
   
111.36   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
111.37   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference
   
111.38   Tax collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
111.39   Amount of tax disputed
   
111.40   Revocation
   
111.41   Form and contents of license
   
111.42   Assignments
   
111.43   Changes in the business conducted by licensee during the tax year
   
111.44   Tax collector to furnish duplicates
   
111.45   Record of conferences
   
111.46   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
Enforcement and Collection
   
111.60   Duty to determine whether tax due
   
111.61   Tax collector to investigate
   
111.62   Duty to keep books
   
111.63   Permit inspection
   
111.64   Duty to post license
   
111.65   Notice of deficiency
   
111.66   Request for a conference
   
111.67   Deficiency to become final
   
111.68   Conference held
   
111.69   Collection of deficiency
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business and
franchise taxed under this chapter.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm or other legal entity.
   RETAIL MERCHANT. A person engaged in the business of making sales of
tangible personal property to the end user.
   RETAIL SALE or SALE AT RETAIL. The sale, lease or rental for any purpose
other than for resale, sublease or subrent.
   SANCTIONED. Effectively approved by the town for the purpose of adding
benefit to the town.
   SEASONAL BUSINESS. A business is SEASONAL in nature when it is conducted for
profit six months out of the year or less.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The person designated by the town as responsible for the
issuance of privilege licenses.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.02  CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted for revenue purposes only. Therefore, it should be
construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its terms. In
addition, issuance of a license in accordance with this chapter does not excuse
a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
chapter does not prevent the town from imposing license taxes on additional
businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of any license tax, or
from regulating any business taxed.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
LEVY
§ 111.15  LEVY OF TAX.
   An annual privilege license tax is hereby levied on each business conducted
within this town in the amounts set forth in the town privilege license
schedule.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.16  WHO MUST PAY TAX.
   (A)   Each person who conducts a business within this town is subject to
this chapter. A person CONDUCTS BUSINESS when he or she engages in one act of
business taxed under this chapter.
   (B)   He or she conducts the business WITHIN THE TOWN if he or she maintains
a business location within the town; or if, either personally or through
agents, he or she:
      (1)   Solicits business within the town limits; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the town limits while
maintaining continuous, personal business connections in town.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.17  PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE; ANNUAL LICENSES.
   Unless the section of this chapter levying the privilege license tax
applicable to a particular business provides otherwise, a license issued in
accordance with this chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning May 1
and ending April 111. The tax is due on May 1 of each year and subject to a
late fee of 5% of the amount of the license every 30 days for a maximum of 25%
of initial tax due with a minimum penalty of $5 as imposed by G.S. § 105-236(2)
after June 30 with the exception of a past due date of May 31 for the year of
2012. However, if a person begins a business after May 1 of a year, the tax for
that year is due before the business is begun.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18  PRORATION OF TAX.
   If a business is begun after November 30 and before May 1, the amount of tax
due is half the amount otherwise due. If a business is seasonal in nature and
if the amount of tax is not based on gross receipts, the amount of tax due is
half the amount otherwise due.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.19  REFUNDS AND FEE ADJUSTMENTS.
   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his or her business during the
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund. Adjustments may only be
given due to clerical error.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.20  SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate license is required and a separate privilege license tax must be
paid for each place of business unless two or more places of business under
common ownership are contiguous to each other, communicate directly with and
open into each other and are operated as a unit. In addition, a separate
privilege license tax must be paid for each business taxable under this chapter
conducted by the taxpayer at any one location.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.21  COMPUTATION OF TAX BASED ON GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter levies a privilege license tax computed on the
basis of gross receipts, GROSS RECEIPTS means the amount reported as gross
receipts on a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year.
   (B)   If a business has not been in operation long enough for the
information required in division (A) above to be available, the gross receipts
will be estimated by whatever method reasonable.
   (C)   If there appears to be a deficiency in taxes paid by a business in
accordance with divisions (A) or (B) above, the tax collector may resolve the
issue by phone conversation, meeting in person or requesting to review
appropriate business records to help determine the proper tax due. Also, if the
applicant has issue with the amount of tax due, that person may request a
conference with the tax collector in accordance with §
111.39.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt from the payment of a privilege license tax levied by
this chapter.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A person who operates a business for a
religious, educational, civic, patriotic, charitable or fraternal purpose, when
the entire gross income of the business is used for such a purpose, is exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this chapter.
   (C)   Vendors at town sponsored, co-sponsored or sanctioned activities and
sanctioned farmers markets. Vendors at town sponsored, co-sponsored or
sanctioned activities can be exempt if the entity sponsoring the event
communicates with the town’s Main Street Committee.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.23  APPROVED PAYMENT PLAN.
   An approved payment plan may be granted to businesses whose fee exceeds
$10,000 a year whereby businesses may remit 50% of the privilege license fee by
May 1 with the balance due by the following November 1 of the same year. This
option is not available if any unpaid commitments exist.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
LICENSES
§ 111.35  APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply for any license required by this chapter prior to
the first day of a new business operation or prior to May 1 of any year when
the operation is ongoing.
   (B)   The application contains the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an
individual, a partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   A contact person;
      (4)   Where the business is conducted, both physical and mailing
addresses;
      (5)   A phone number;
      (6)   The date the business began, if pertinent;
      (7)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial number of the state
license the applicant currently holds; and
      (8)   Any other information the tax collector determines to be necessary
for town records or to compute the amount of tax due.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the business operator to renew and
maintain current privilege licenses. It shall not necessarily be the
responsibility of the town to notify business owners of that need.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.36  REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The tax collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license; or
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.37  UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
111.36, the tax collector shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and shall
not issue the license. After the applicant’s request, the tax collector shall,
in accordance with §
111.46, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license. The applicant may, within ten days after the day the statement is
received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the request, the
applicant shall specify why the applicant for a license should not be refused.
The tax collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may reapply
for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the application
was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license in compliance with §
111.38.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.38  TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   (A)   When an applicant requests a privilege license, the tax collector
shall give the application and a current fee schedule for review. The
applicant, with the help of the tax collector if necessary, determines by
review of the fee schedule the tax due. After receipt of the completed
application, if the tax collector believes that no reason exists for refusal of
a license under §
111.36 and the tax collector believes the taxes assigned are in keeping with
the fee schedule, the license may be granted. The tax collector shall not issue
a license until the tax is paid.
   (B)   When licenses renew each year, the tax collector shall mail
applications and fee schedules in a timely fashion to businesses maintained on
the town’s privilege license list. The applicant shall complete the application
as explained above and return it to the town hall along with payment by the
appropriate deadline. After receipt of the completed application, if the tax
collector believes that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
111.36 and the tax collector believes the taxes assigned are in keeping with
the fee schedule, the license may be granted. If a deficiency in payment seems
to exist, the tax collector may resolve the issue by phone conversation,
meeting in person, or requesting to review appropriate business records to help
determine the proper tax due. Also, if the applicant has issue with the amount
of tax due, that person may request a conference with the tax collector in
accordance with §
111.37.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.39  AMOUNT OF TAX DISPUTED.
   (A)   If disputes arise over the amount the tax collector determines to be
due or already paid, the applicant may do any of the following:
      (1)   Request a meeting to discuss the amount the tax collector has
determined due, if different than amount paid;
      (2)   Refuse to pay and request a conference with the tax collector to
discuss the determination; and/or
      (3)   Pay the amount and request a conference to discuss the right to a
refund.
   (B)   If a conference is requested, the tax collector shall arrange it
within a reasonable time.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.40  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The tax collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in §
111.36. Before revoking a license, the tax collector shall give the licensee
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with §
111.46. The licensee may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request a conference with the tax collector in writing. The request
shall specify the reason why the license should not be revoked. The tax
collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the tax collector shall revoke the license.
If the licensee requests a conference, the tax collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the tax collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license in accordance with §
111.38.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.41  FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature of
the business licensed and the period for which the license is issued. It should
be signed and dated by the tax collector. In addition, if a machine is
licensed, the license shall show the serial number of the machine. The tax
collector shall keep a copy of each license issued.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.42  ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the tax collector in accordance
with §
111.43. Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a personal
privilege and is not assignable.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.43  CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING THE TAX YEAR.
   (A)   Generally. A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in the
information contained in the license application to the tax collector within
ten days after the change occurs. If information shown on the license itself is
affected, the licensee or assignee shall surrender the license to the tax
collector when reporting the change.
   (B)   Changes affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
111.36 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (C)   Changes not affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons
for revoking the license under §
111.36 and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change
upon payment of a fee of $10.
   (D)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under §
111.36, the tax collector shall refuse to reissue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with §
111.40.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.44  TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the tax
collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of $10.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.45  RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The tax collector shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held in accordance with §§
111.35 through
111.46. The record shall contain the applicant’s or licensee’s name, the date
of the conference and a brief statement of the issues discussed and the result
reached. After three years, the tax collector shall dispose of the record in
accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.46  PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the tax collector to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or licensee, the tax collector may do so in one of
three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail and
returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in
the license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 111.60  DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX DUE.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this chapter and if so, whether that tax has been paid
for the current tax year.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.61  TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the tax collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this chapter, the tax collector may
conduct an investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.62  DUTY TO KEEP BOOKS.
   Each person who conducts a business taxed under this chapter shall keep all
records and books necessary to compute the tax liability. If a person fails to
keep books and records as required, the tax collector shall make a
determination of that person’s tax liability from the information available.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.63  PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in the town shall, if necessary, permit
the tax collector to inspect the business premises during normal business hours
to determine the nature of the business conducted there and to examine the
books and records to determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.64  DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the place of
business licensed. If the licensee has no regular place of business, the
license must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper town
officials. If the license is not properly posted, a penalty of $5 may be
imposed. If a machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.65  NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   If the tax collector determines that a person has not paid the full amount
of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or for a
prior license year, the tax collector may contact the person in attempt to
correct the deficiency. If unsuccessful, written notice may be given in
accordance with §
111.46. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due; the
section of this chapter upon which the tax is based; the amount of tax paid;
any interest due; the balance owed; the manner and time period in which the
person may respond to the notice of the deficiency; and the consequences of
failing to respond as specified.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.66  REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request a conference in writing. The request shall specify the person’s
objections to the notice of deficiency.
   (B)   By way of illustration, but not limitation, a person who receives
notice of a deficiency may object on the following grounds:
      (1)   The tax due has already been paid;
      (2)   The tax collector miscalculated the amount of tax due;
      (3)   The tax collector based his or her calculation on incorrect or
insufficient information concerning either the nature or the amount of business
conducted; or
      (4)   The tax collector based the determination on an erroneous
interpretation of a section of this chapter that establishes a category of
business subject to a particular tax.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.67  DEFICIENCY TO BECOME FINAL.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
111.66, the deficiency becomes final and the tax collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.68  CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the tax collector shall not proceed
to collect the deficiency until hearing the taxpayer’s objections and
determining that the deficiency should become final. The tax collector shall
maintain a record of each conference held for three years in accordance with §
111.66. The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference, a brief statement of the issues discussed and the results of the
discussion. After three years, the tax collector shall dispose of the record in
compliance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
§ 111.69  COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The tax collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
111.99(A);
      (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
111.99(B); or
      (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax
of 5% of the amount of the license every 30 days for a maximum of 25% of
initial tax due with a minimum penalty of $5 as imposed by G.S. § 105-236(2).
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within this town without having
paid the privilege license tax imposed by this chapter, or without a valid
license issued in accordance with this chapter, is a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in G.S. § 105-109. Each day that a person conducts business in
violation of this chapter is a separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in
criminal proceedings in accordance with this section does not relieve a person
of the liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
division (A) above and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the town may seek
an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. O-2012-51, eff. 4-12-2012)
CHAPTER 112:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Adopted by reference
§ 112.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Stokes County Sexually Oriented Businesses Ordinance is adopted by
reference as if fully set forth, except requiring 1,000 feet between any
church, chapel or publicly recognized place of worship, any park or building
used by the public or owned by a public entity or any residential zoning
district and with the following amendment to Paragraph 12:  The Board of
Commissioners or Planned Board may require any other condition to help
ameliorate the impact of the adult establishment to its surrounding use.
(Ord. O-2005-06, passed 9-6-2005)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
151.   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
      
152.   ABANDONED STRUCTURES
      
153.   STREET NAMES AND ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT STANDARDS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
      
157.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150:  MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Preamble
   
150.002   Scope
   
150.003   Definitions
Standards and Requirements
   
150.015   Minimum standards for base equipment facilities
   
150.016   Minimum requirements for light and ventilation
   
150.017   Minimum requirements for electrical systems
   
150.018   General requirements for the exterior and interior of structures
   
150.019   Minimum space use and requirements
   
150.020   Sanitation requirements
   
150.021   Rooming houses
   
150.022   Application of North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code
Housing Inspector
   
150.035   Creation of office
   
150.036   Inspections
   
150.037   Abatement, hearing on charges; filing; petition and charges;
investigations; time and conduct of hearing
   
150.038   Service of order; contents
   
150.039   Enforcement
   
150.040   Violations; failure, neglect or refusal to repair, alter, improve,
vacate and close, remove or demolish; renting of unfit dwelling after notice
   
150.041   Methods of service
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.055   Residential buildings unfit for human habitation
   
150.056   Unsafe buildings
Housing Appeals Board
   
150.070   Establishment of Housing Appeals Board
   
150.071   Appeals procedure
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001  PREAMBLE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that there
exist within the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction dwellings which are
unfit for human habitation and/or inimical to the welfare, and dangerous and
injurious to the health, safety and morals of the people of the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction due to dilapidation, defects increasing the
hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or
sanitary facilities, and due to other conditions rendering such dwelling unsafe
or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety or morals, or
otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988; Ord. passed 2-1-2000)
§ 150.002  SCOPE.
   (A)   This Code is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed to
secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public safety,
health and general welfare through structural strength stability, sanitation,
adequate light and ventilation, and safety to the life and property from fire
and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair, removal,
demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming houses or
building structures or premises used as such.
   (B)   The provision of this Code shall apply to all existing housing and to
all housing hereafter constructed within the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction. Portable, mobile or demountable buildings or structures,
including trailers, when used or intended for use for housing within the town
and its extraterritorial jurisdiction, shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of this Code. This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation and
does not replace or modify requirements otherwise established for the
construction, repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities
except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.003  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change or modification in construction or
occupancy.
      APPROVED. Approved by the Housing Inspector.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind. The term BUILDING shall be
construed as if followed by the words “or part thereof.”
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or
wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 60% of its value, as
determined by findings of the Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 60% of its value, as
determined by findings of the Inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants whether or not such building is
occupied or vacant; provided that temporary housing as hereinafter defined
shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
      DWELLING UNITS. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating whether or not such unit is
occupied or vacant.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harboring places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the Inspector.
      FAMILY. One or more persons living together, who are related by blood,
marriage or adoption, and having common housekeeping facilities.
      FLOOR AREA. The total area of all habitable rooms in a building or
structure.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such numbers as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      INSPECTOR. A Housing Inspector of the town or other person charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied as
the home or residence of more than two families, living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in the said building, and shall include flats
and apartments.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPENABLE AREA. That a part of window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgage of
record.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests or record in a dwelling or any who are in possession thereof; or
shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit, as owner
or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereof, to the
same extent as if he or she were the owner.
      PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
      PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and public or private water
supply system, within or adjacent to any building, structure or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension or alteration of storm water, liquid waste or sewerage, and water
supply systems of any premises to its connection with any point of public
disposal.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon.
      PUBLIC AREA. As used in this Code, an unoccupied open space adjoining a
building and on the same property, that is permanently maintained accessible to
the Fire Department and free of all encumbrances that might interfere with its
use by the Fire Department.
      REQUIRED. Required by some provision of this Code.
      RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY. Buildings in which families or households live or
in which sleeping accommodations are provided. Such buildings include, among
others, the following: dwellings; multiple dwellings; lodging houses; and all
dormitories.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not members of the family of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials except garbage,
and the term shall include ashes, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust.
      STAIRWAY. One or more flights or stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one story to another in a building or structure.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the floor next above, except that the topmost STORY shall be that portion of a
building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the
ceiling or roof above.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner. The term STRUCTURE shall be construed
as if followed by the words “or part thereof.”
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.  Conditions exist in a dwelling that render
it dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of
the dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings, or other residents of the
town.  Defective conditions may include the following (without limiting the
generality of the foregoing): defects therein increasing the hazards of fire,
accident, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary
facilities; dilapidation; disrepair; structural defects; uncleanliness. 
Ordinances may provide additional standards to guide the public officers, or
their agents, in determining the fitness of a dwelling for human habitation.
      VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanical means to or from any space.
      YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot, with a building extending
along the entire length of a street or rear or interior lot line.
   (B)   Meaning of certain words. When the words “dwelling,” “dwelling
unit,”“rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988; Ord. passed 2-1-2000)
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.015  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASE EQUIPMENT FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling be permitted to exist which does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Sanitary facilities required. Every dwelling unit shall contain not
less than a kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower and a water closet, all in
good working condition and property connected to an approved water and sewer
system. Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
   (B)   Location of sanitary facilities. All required sanitary facilities
shall be located within the dwelling unit and be accessible to the occupants of
the same. The water closet, tub or shower, and lavatory in at least one
bathroom shall be located in a room affording privacy to the user and such
rooms shall have minimum floor space of 30 square feet.
   (C)   Hot and cold water supply. Every dwelling unit shall have connected to
the kitchen sink, lavatory and tub or shower an adequate supply of both cold
water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
   (D)   Heating facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which shall be
installed in accordance with the appropriate building, gas or electrical code
and shall be maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable of
safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit therein to a temperature of at least 68°F
at a distance three feet above the floor during ordinary minimum winter
conditions.
      (2)   Where a gas or electric central heating system is not provided,
each dwelling unit shall be provided with sufficient fireplaces, chimneys,
flues or gas vents, whereby heating appliances may be connected so as to
furnish a minimum temperature of 68°F measured at a point three feet above the
floor during ordinary minimum winter conditions, and in safe and proper working
order.
   (E)   Cooking and heating equipment. All cooking and heating equipment and
facilities shall be installed in accordance with the appropriate building, gas
or electrical code and shall be maintained in a safe and good working
condition.
   (F)   Garbage storage or disposal facilities. Every dwelling unit or multi-
family dwelling shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility;
which may be an adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink
grinder) in each dwelling unit; or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the
Inspector, in the structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit;
or an approved outside garbage can.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.016  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the purpose of
living, sleeping, cooking and eating therein, nor shall any vacant dwelling be
permitted to exist which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Windows and skylights. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window
area, measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor
area of such room. Whenever the only window area of such is a skylight type
window in the top of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall
equal at least 15% of the total area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can safely be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight type size as required, or the room shall have other approved
equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom. Every bathroom shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms, except that no window or skylight shall be
required in adequately ventilated bathrooms equipped with an approved
ventilation system.
   (D)   Electric lights and outlets required. Every dwelling shall be
adequately and safely wired for electric lights and convenience receptacles.
Every habitable room and hallway shall have provision for adequate lighting and
other necessary electrical service.
   (E)   Light in public halls and stairways. Every public hall and stairway in
every multiple dwelling containing five or more dwelling units shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Every public hall and stairway in structures
devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and containing not more than four dwelling
units may be supplied with conveniently located light switches, controlling an
adequate lighting system which may be turned on when needed, instead of full-
time lighting.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.017  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling be permitted to exist which does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in
a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed and connected
to the source of electrical power in accordance with the adopted Electrical
Code of the state.
   (B)   The minimum capacity of the service supply and the main disconnect
switch shall be sufficient to adequately carry the total load required in
accordance with the Electrical Code of the state.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.018  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling building be permitted to exist which does not comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Foundation. The building foundation walls, piers or other elements
shall be maintained in a safe manner and capable of supporting the load which
normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (B)   Exterior walls. The exterior walls shall be substantially
weathertight, watertight and shall be made impervious to the adverse effects of
weather and be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
   (C)   Roofs. Roofs shall be maintained in a safe manner and have no defects
which might admit rain or cause dampness in the walls or interior portion of
the building.
   (D)   Means of egress. Every dwelling unit shall have two safe, unobstructed
means of egress with minimum ceiling height of seven feet leading to a safe and
open space at ground level.
   (E)   Stairs. Every inside and outside stair shall be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon,
and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Porches and appurtenances. Every outside porch and any appurtenances
thereto shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal use
may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair.
   (G)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door and basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and rodent
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (H)   Windows to be glazed. Window panes or an approved substitute shall be
maintained without cracks or holes which allow passage of air.
   (I)   Window sash. Window sash shall be properly fitted and watertight
within the window frame.
   (J)   Hardware. Every exterior door shall be provided with proper hardware
and maintained in good condition.
   (K)   Door frames. Every exterior door shall fit reasonably well within its
frame so as to substantially exclude rain and wind from entering the dwelling
building.
   (L)   Screens.
      (1)   Every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space
shall have screens and a self-closing device; and every window or other device
with opening to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation,
shall likewise have screens, tight fitting, free of holes and not nailed to
window frame or sash.
      (2)   Dwellings containing central heating furnaces and adequate cooling
equipment for mechanically ventilating the building year round are not required
to have screens on door or window openings.
   (M)   Accessory structures. Garages, storage buildings and other accessory
structures shall be maintained and kept in good repair and sound structural
condition.
   (N)   Interior floors, walls and partitions. Every floor, wall or partition
shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (O)   Ceilings. Every interior ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; and shall be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (P)   Structural supports. Every structural element of the dwelling unit
shall be structurally sound and show no evidence of deterioration which would
render it incapable of carrying loads which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon.
   (Q)   Protective railings. Protective railings shall be required on any
unenclosed structure over 30 inches above adjacent finish grade or on any steps
containing four risers or more. Interior stairs and stairwells more than four
risers high shall have handrails located in accordance with requirements of the
Building Code. Handrails or protective railings shall be capable of bearing
normally imposed loads and be maintained in good condition.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.019  MINIMUM SPACE USE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling building be permitted to exist which does not comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Required space in dwelling unit. Every dwelling unit shall contain at
least 150 square feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at
least 100 additional square feet of floor area per each additional occupant.
   (B)   Required space in sleeping rooms. In every dwelling unit of two or
more rooms, every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50 square
feet of floor space of each additional occupant thereof.
   (C)   Minimum ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every
habitable room, foyer, hall or corridor shall have a ceiling height of at least
seven feet; and the floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling
height is less than seven feet shall not be considered as part of the floor
area in computing the total floor area of the room for the purpose of
determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   (D)   Occupancy of dwelling unit below grade. No basement or cellar space
shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless meeting all
specifications for habitable rooms.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.020  SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No persons shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling building be permitted to exist which does not comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Sanitation. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling
units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition
the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every owner or occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep in
a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies or controls or which is provided for
his or her particular use.
   (C)   Garbage disposal. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
dispose of all his or her garbage and any other organic waste which might
provide food for rodents and all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or garbage or rubbish storage
containers.
   (D)   Extermination. Every occupant of a single dwelling and every owner of
a building containing two or more dwelling units shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects or rodents or other pests within the building or
premises.
   (E)   Use and operation of supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a
dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the
proper use and operation thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021  ROOMING HOUSES.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in compliance with
the provisions of every section of this Code.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or
she holds a valid rooming house license.
   (B)   Water closet, lavatory and bath facilities.
      (1)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower properly connected to a water and sewer system and in good working
condition shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever
said facilities are to be shared.
      (2)   All such facilities shall be located on the floor they serve within
the dwelling so as to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway
to all persons sharing such facilities.
   (C)   Water heater required. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot water at all times.
   (D)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
space and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person
shall contain at least 50 square feet for each occupant thereof.
   (E)   Exit requirement. Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by
all applicable building codes.
   (F)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming
house; and he or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance
of the entire premises where the entire structure or building is leased or
occupied by the operator.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022  APPLICATION OF NORTH CAROLINA UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The most recent edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code and amendments thereto, shall govern all repairs, alterations and/or
additions to any existing structure.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
HOUSING INSPECTOR
§ 150.035  CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The Housing Inspector shall have such powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this
chapter, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in
addition to others herein granted, the following powers:
   (A)   Investigations. To investigate dwelling and building conditions in the
town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation, and which buildings are dangerous, being guided in such examination
of dwellings and buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter;
   (B)   Oaths, witnesses and the like. To administer oaths, affirmations and
to examine witnesses and receive evidence;
   (C)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises, dwellings and
buildings for the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided,
that such entries shall be made in such a manner as
to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
   (D)   Delegation of functions and the like. To delegate any of his or her
functions and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as he or
she may designate.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.036  INSPECTIONS.
   The Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections in
compliance with a plan approved by the Board of Commissioners, to determine the
condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises located
within the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction in order that he or she
may perform his or her duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the
occupant of dwellings and of the general public. For the purpose of making such
inspections, the Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at
all reasonable time all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.037  ABATEMENT, HEARING ON CHARGES; FILING; PETITION AND CHARGES;
INVESTIGATIONS; TIME AND CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to this
section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens, with a
copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the office of
the Clerk of Superior Court of the county, to be indexed and cross-indexed in
accordance with the indexing procedures of the General Statutes. The Inspector
shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the owners
and parties in interest in the dwelling at the time of filing in accordance
with G.S. § 160A-445, as applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of
any order issued based upon such complaint and hearing, the Inspector shall
direct the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988; Ord. passed 4-2-1996)
§ 150.038  SERVICE OF ORDER; CONTENTS.
   If, after such notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that the
building under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance with
the standards herein set forth, he or she shall state in writing his or her
finding of fact in support of such determination, stating whether said building
is deteriorated or dilapidated, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order.
   (A)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of said building, bringing it
up to the standards described herein, can be made at a cost less than 60% of
the present value of the building, the order shall require the owner, within a
specified period of time, not exceeding 90 days, to repair, alter or improve
such building so as to render it safe. Such order may also direct and require
the owner to vacate and close the building until the repairs, alterations and
improvements have been made and/or the unsafe and dangerous character of such
building has been corrected.
   (B)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of said building, bringing it
up to the standards described herein, cannot be made at cost of less than 60%
of the present value of the building, the order shall require the owner, within
a specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days, to either repair, alter or
improve such building so as to bring it into compliance with the standards
described herein, or to demolish and remove such building.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.039  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the owner of a building found to be deteriorated fails to comply
with an order to repair, or improve the building, unless an appeal is taken
from such order in accordance with §§
150.070 and
150.071, the Inspector may:
      (1)   Secure the issuance of a warrant charging such owner with a
violation of the standards of fitness established by this Code;
      (2)   Cause such building to be repaired, altered or improved, and
pending such repairs, alterations or improvements, may order such building
vacated and closed; and
      (3)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building so closed,
a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   If the owner of a building found to be dilapidated fails to comply
with an order to vacate and close, or fails to remove or demolish the building,
unless an appeal is taken from such order in accordance with §§
150.070 and
150.071, the Inspector may:
      (1)   Secure the issuance of a warrant charging such owner with violation
of the standards of fitness established by this Code;
      (2)   Cause such building to be vacated and closed and removed or
demolished; and
      (3)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building so closed a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.”
   (C)   The Inspector shall not cause the repair, alteration, improvement or
demolition and removal of any building or perform any other duties set forth in
divisions (A) and (B) above, until the Board of Commissioners shall have by
ordinance ordered the Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
Code with respect to the particular property or properties which the Inspector
shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or dangerous and which
property or properties shall be described in the ordinance. Such ordinances
shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of such repairs, alterations or improvements or
vacating and closing, or demolition and removal by the Inspector shall be a
lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred; which lien
shall be filed, have the same priority and be collected as provided by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the building is demolished and removed by the
Inspector, he or she shall sell the materials of such building and shall credit
the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the demolition and removal and
any balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court by the
Inspector, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court,
and shall be disbursed by such court to the person found to be entitled thereto
by final decree of such court (in a special proceeding brought before the Clerk
of Superior Court for said purpose).
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.040  VIOLATIONS; FAILURE, NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO REPAIR, ALTER, IMPROVE,
VACATE AND CLOSE, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH; RENTING OF UNFIT DWELLING AFTER NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building to fail, neglect or
refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and close and
demolish and remove the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served
as herein provided, within the time specified in such order, and each day that
any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with such order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.041  METHODS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Complaints or orders issued by an Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also
be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered
or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned
by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used,
a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises affected.
      (2)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
   (B)   Failure on the part of any owner or party in interest to receive or
have served upon him or her any complaint, notice or order herein provided for
shall not affect or invalidate the proceedings with respect to any other owner
or party in interest or any other person, firm or corporation.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988; Ord. passed 2-1-2000)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.055  RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Inspector shall determine that a resident building is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any of the following conditions exist
in such building:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such extent as to render the building unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting members or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or nonsupporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
show 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town; and
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
   (B)   Irrespective of the above, a residential dwelling unit shall be
construed by the Inspector to be unfit for human habitation, and he or she
shall so find if such dwelling unit contains more than seven separate types of
violations of any of the minimum standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.056  UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Unsafe buildings, as defined in §
150.055, shall be repaired, removed, renovated or demolished as provided
therein.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
HOUSING APPEALS BOARD
§ 150.070  ESTABLISHMENT OF HOUSING APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board hereby establishes a Housing Appeals Board to which appeals may be
taken from a decision or order of the Housing Inspector. This Housing Appeals
Board shall consist of five members who shall serve for three-year staggered
terms. The Housing Appeals Board shall have the power to elect its own
officers, fix the times and places for its meetings, adopt necessary rules of
procedure and to adopt other rules and regulations for the proper discharge of
its duties. The Housing Appeals Board shall keep an accurate record of all of
its proceedings, and all of its proceedings shall be open to the public.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.071  APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer or Board of
Commissioner of the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by
filing with the Housing Inspector and with the Housing Appeals Board at the
Town Hall, a notice of appeal which must specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Housing Inspector
shall forthwith transmit to the Housing Appeals Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made. When an
appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow the person
aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in full force
until modified or reversed. When any appeal if from a decision of the Housing
Inspector’s requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Housing
Appeals Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Housing Appeals
Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of
acts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the
appellant), a suspension of this requirement would cause imminent peril to life
or property. In that case, the requirement shall not be suspended except by a
restraining order which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than
one day written notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to provisions of this section.
   (B)   The Housing Appeals Board shall affix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give notice to the parties and shall render its decision within
a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The
Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the decision or
order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in its opinion,
ought to be made in the matter and to that end it shall have all the powers of
the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Housing
Inspector. The Board shall have power also when passing upon appeals, when
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (C)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceeding
in the nature of certiorari instituted with 15 days of the decision of the
Housing Appeals Board, but not otherwise.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court of the county
for an injunction restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order
or decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
§ 150.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   When the Inspector finds that a building is unfit for human habitation
or dangerous within the meaning of this chapter and has notified the owner to
such effect and the time limit set by the Inspector for the correction of
defects or vacating same has expired, no person shall receive rentals, offers
for rent or occupy such building unfit as a human habitation, and each day such
offense continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Any person violating
these provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction such
offender shall be punished by a fine of not more than $50 for each separate
offense.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this Code shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained or used in violation of this chapter, or any valid order or decision
of the Housing Inspector or the Housing Appeals Board made pursuant to this
chapter, the Housing Inspector or the Housing Appeals Board may institute an
action or proceeding in the Superior Court of the county to prevent the
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or use to restrain,
correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of dwelling or to
prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the
dwelling.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1988)
CHAPTER 151:  NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Findings; authority
   
151.004   Scope; jurisdiction
   
151.005   General definitions and interpretations
   
151.006   Specific definitions and interpretations
   
151.007   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.008   Amendments
Duties and Responsibilities
   
151.020   Duties and responsibilities of the owner
   
151.021   Duties and responsibilities of the occupant
   
151.022   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
Standards for Nonresidential Buildings and Premises Fitness
   
151.035   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
   
151.036   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
Procedures for Enforcement
   
151.050   Unsafe buildings shall be condemned by the Inspector
   
151.051   Removal of condemnation notice unlawful
   
151.052   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
151.053   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
151.054   Service of written notice or order of Inspector
   
151.055   Appeal of order of Inspector; finality if not appealed
   
151.056   Failure to comply with order of Inspector
   
151.057   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
151.058   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
151.059   Demolition of nonresidential buildings by owner
Administration
   
151.070   Office of Nonresidential Building Maintenance Standards Inspector
created; powers and duties
   
151.071   Inspections
   
151.072   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
151.073   Violations
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Nonresidential Building Maintenance
Standards for the town of Walnut Cove, and may be cited as such, and will be
referred to hereinafter as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.002  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method whereby nonresidential buildings and premises
which from any cause, endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety
or welfare of the general public or their occupants, diminish property values
or detract excessively from the appropriate appearance of the area in which
they are located, may be required to be repaired, closed, vacated or
demolished. The provisions of this chapter are cumulative with and in addition
to any other remedy provided by law including the current editions of standard
codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.003  FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-174, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town nonresidential buildings and premises which are unsafe
and especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because of bad
conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
town nonresidential buildings and premises which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for nonresidential buildings and premises
fitness as established herein and therefore have present one or more conditions
which are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare. Such
conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation of
nonresidential buildings and premises which render them unsafe and especially
dangerous to life.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.004  SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing nonresidential
buildings and premises and to all nonresidential buildings and premises
hereafter constructed within the town limits as now or hereafter established.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.005  GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically defined in §
151.006, words used in the Nonresidential Building Maintenance Standards shall
have their respective customary dictionary definitions.
   (B)   For the purpose of these regulations, certain words, terms or phrases
used herein are interpreted and defined as follows.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used
in the plural shall include the singular.
      (3)   The words “shall” and “will” always indicate mandatory. The words
“should” and “may” always indicate optional.
      (4)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and/or “parcel.”
      (5)   The word “building” includes the word “structure.”
      (6)   The word “person” includes a “firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual.”
      (7)   The word “use” includes the terms “arranged, designed and/or
intended” for a use, activity and/or purpose.
      (8)   The term “Board of Adjustment” shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina as created and appointed
by the Board of Commissioners of said town.
      (9)   The term “Board of Commissioners” shall always indicate the Board
of Commissioners of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.006  SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term BUILDING shall
be construed to include the term structure; furthermore, it shall be construed
as if followed by the term “or part thereof.”
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD. Any thing or act which increases, or may cause an increase of,
the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater degree than reasonable
for the conduct of the nonresidential use on the premises, or which may
unreasonably obstruct, delay or hinder, or may unreasonably become the cause of
an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an unreasonable hindrance to the
prevention, suppression or extinguishment of fire. See also NUISANCE.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Town Manager. (Hereinafter referred to as “the
Inspector.”)
   NUISANCE:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the state, or the ordinances of the town;
      (2)   Any condition including an ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot;
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists;
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a nonresidential
building and/or premises or a part thereof, whether with or without the
knowledge and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly,
entitled to possession regardless of whether the building and/or premises are
actually occupied or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes; gas burning equipment; water pipes; water heaters; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower bath; installed clothes washing machines; catch basins; vents;
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for nonresidential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the owner
or occupant.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.007  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina Building Code,
current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations, repairs,
additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or required
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.008  AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time amend, supplement or
change the provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such amendment
shall be by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 151.020  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner to maintain all
nonresidential buildings and premises in accordance with all standards for
nonresidential buildings and premises fitness as stated in §§
151.035 and
151.036.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.021  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the nonresidential
use, and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which would render
any parts of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which would
obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required, or from
maintaining his or her building or premises in a safe and sanitary condition;
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his or her control;
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of the same;
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the code of ordinances of the town;
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the nonresidential
use under the control of the occupant; and
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.022  RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied
with, whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All
unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners
to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance
conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND PREMISES FITNESS
§ 151.035  UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life. The Town Board of Commissioners has determined that unsafe
and especially dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town, that such unsafe and
especially dangerous buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the
owners of such unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall
immediately remedy the unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or
demolish such buildings or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the Inspector if the Inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exists in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard;
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap;
      (11)   Any violation of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code which
constitutes a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life; and
      (12)   Any abandoned nonresidential building which is found to be a
health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction of
insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to conditions enumerated in division (B)(1) through (B)
(12) above, any one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the
Inspector shall determine that a nonresidential building or structure is unsafe
if he or she finds that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any
five or more of the following enumerated standards of building and premises
fitness. Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular building and premises, then that
building and premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
         (b)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or
hazardous materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
         (c)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
         (d)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected
holes, excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
         (e)   Buildings and premises surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked
or broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
         (f)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and
elements protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or
not properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
      (2)   Appurtenances.
         (a)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
         (b)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire
escapes shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and
maintained to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept
structurally sound, in good repair and free of defects.
         (c)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or
weakened portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be
treated or painted.
         (d)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as
necessary and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not
to cause a hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
         (e)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained
in a state of good repair.
         (f)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
      (3)   Structural.
         (a)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
         (b)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
         (c)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
         (d)   Interior steps, railings, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fall or
collapse.
         (e)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the
wall unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of
adjacent property and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of
the wall.
      (4)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
         (a)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
         (b)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
         (c)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed, or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
      (5)   Egress.
         (a)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
         (b)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints or broken or loose
mullions.
         (c)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass, that could
be dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to
use the premises, from falling or shattering.
         (d)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained
as windows, unless specifically approved by the Inspector for enclosure.
      (6)   Drainage. All yards and premises shall be properly graded and
maintained so as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.036  BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
   In any case where the Inspector determines that a nonresidential building
and/or premises fails to fully comply with one or more but less than five of
the standards of nonresidential buildings and premises fitness set forth in §
151.035(C), such building and/or premises shall not be found to be unsafe and
shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this
chapter for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of noncompliance,
however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and shall
subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or
criminal or both, of §
151.999. In such case the Inspector shall notify the owner as provided for in §
151.054.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)  Penalty, see §
151.999
PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.050  UNSAFE BUILDINGS SHALL BE CONDEMNED BY THE INSPECTOR.
   If a building or structure shall appear to the Inspector to be especially
dangerous to life and unsafe under §
151.035, the Inspector shall:
   (A)   Make a written finding that the building or structure appears to be
unsafe and is condemned; and
   (B)   Affix a condemned notice of the dangerous character or conditions of
the building or structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such
building or structure.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.051  REMOVAL OF CONDEMNATION NOTICE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a condemned notice from a
building or structure after such condemned notice has been affixed to it by the
Inspector pursuant to the provisions of §
151.050.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052  COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   If a building or structure has been condemned by the Inspector as
unsafe pursuant to §
151.050, the Inspector shall serve the owner with a written complaint and
notice of hearing which notice shall state that:
      (1)   The building or structure is condemned due to its condition that
appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or appears to be dangerous to
life, health or other property and that it is held to be unsafe;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated place
and time, which time shall be not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the date of such notice, and that at such hearing the owner shall be
entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present arguments and
evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as the Inspector
deems to be appropriate under the existing conditions.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
office of the Clerk of Superior Court of the county, to be indexed and cross-
indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of the General Statutes. The
Inspector shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the
owner of the building or structure at the time of filing in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-428, as applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of any
order issued based upon such complaint and hearing, the Inspector shall direct
the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.053  ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in §
151.052, the Inspector shall find that the building or structure is in an
unsafe condition which constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it
dangerous to life, health or other property, the Inspector shall issue an order
in writing, directed to the owner or owners of such building or structure,
directing the owner or owners to remedy the defective condition by repairing,
closing, vacating or demolishing the building or structure or taking other
necessary steps within such a period as the Inspector may prescribe, which
period may not be less than 60 days from the service of the order; provided
that, where the Inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life, health
or other property, the order may require that corrective action be taken in
such lesser period as may be feasible.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.054  SERVICE OF WRITTEN NOTICE OR ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   In any case where this chapter requires service of a written notice or order
by the Inspector, such notice or order shall be made in the following manner.
   (A)   The written notice or order shall be served upon each owner by mailing
the same by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner’s last known address or by personal service of the notice or order upon
each owner.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of an owner are unknown and cannot after
due diligence be discovered, the notice or order shall be considered properly
and adequately served upon such owner if a copy thereof is posted on the
outside of the building or structure in question at least ten days prior to the
hearing, if a hearing is required, and a notice of the hearing published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the jurisdiction at least once not
later than one week prior to the hearing.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.055  APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   (A)   Any owner who has received an order under §
151.053 may appeal from the order to the Board of Commissioners by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Board
of Commissioners within the prescribed time, the order of the Inspector shall
be final.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall hear appeals within a reasonable time
after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke
the order.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.056  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a building or structure to fail to
comply with an order issued pursuant to §
151.053 from which no appeal has been taken or fail to comply with an order of
the Board of Commissioners following an appeal, unless the owner shall, within
ten days following issuance of the order by the Board of Commissioners, appeal
from that order as by law provided.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.057  REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   In the event of such failure to comply, in addition to the penalties,
remedies and enforcement procedures contained in §
10.99 of the code of ordinances and §
151.999, the Inspector may cause such building and premises to be repaired,
closed, vacated or demolished as appears appropriate.
   (B)   The Inspector, however, shall not take such action until the Board of
Commissioners shall have by ordinance ordered the Inspector to proceed with
such action with respect to the particular property or properties which the
Inspector shall have found to be unsafe or not in compliance with all standards
of nonresidential building and premises fitness and which property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a building until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with this chapter.
The ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall be recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index.
   (C)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as a lien for special
assessments provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the building is
removed or demolished by the Inspector, he or she shall sell the materials of
the building, and the personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or
attached to the building, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the
cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited
in the Superior Court by the Inspector, shall be seemed in a manner directed by
the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the court.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.058  FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   (A)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a building,
the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such
occupant. The action to vacate the building shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any persons occupying such building. The Clerk of Superior Court
shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a Magistrate at
a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint.
   (B)   The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29.
The summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing the Inspector produces
a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant
to this section authorizing the Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied
building, the Magistrate shall enter judgement ordering that the premises be
vacated and that all persons be removed. The judgement ordering that the
building be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgement for
summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30.
   (C)   An appeal from any judgement entered hereunder by the Magistrate may
be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of such judgement may
be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
   (D)   An action to remove an occupant of a building who is a tenant of the
owner may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to
this section unless such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days
before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Board of
Commissioners has ordered the Inspector to proceed to exercise his or her
duties under this section to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
building.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.059  DEMOLITION OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BY OWNER.
   Where a nonresidential building is under the jurisdiction of this chapter,
the building may be demolished by the owner provided that the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner obtain a demolition permit from the Inspections Department
of the county;
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections be properly
closed and disconnected;
   (C)   All debris from the building be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building;
   (D)   The lot be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must backfill the lot with 12
inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade;
and
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of the adjacent
property and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.070  OFFICE OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS INSPECTOR
CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the Office of Nonresidential Building Maintenance Standards Inspector
(herein called “Inspector”) is hereby created.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Manager, shall take and
subscribe to the oath of office administered by the Town Clerk, and shall have
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provision of this chapter, including without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the nonresidential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to such nonresidential buildings;
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence;
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
      (4)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.071  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all nonresidential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every nonresidential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a nonresidential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in nonresidential structures within
the jurisdiction. In addition, he or she may make inspections when he or she
has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure
or premises.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
§ 151.072  DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a nonresidential building, or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with the applicable
state and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous
or contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify
the owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or
failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or
she owns. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each
day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.073  VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building and premises to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.053, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall constitute either a misdemeanor
punishable by fine or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4, as amended, or
at the election of the town, shall subject the offender to the civil penalties,
remedies and enforcement procedures contained in §
10.99 of the code of ordinances. Civil penalties for violations of this chapter
shall be in the amount of $100 for each violation and each day any single
violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (B)   If any nonresidential building or premises is erected, constructed,
altered, repaired, converted, maintained or used in violation of this chapter
or of any valid order or decision of the Inspector or Board of Commissioners
made pursuant to any ordinance adopted under authority of this chapter, the
Inspector may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to
restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the
building or to prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises
of the nonresidential building.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be constructed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
   (D)   An appeal from a warning citation issued under the provisions of §
10.99 of the code of ordinances shall be taken within ten days from the date of
said warning citation to the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment in
considering appeals of a warning citation shall have power only in the manner
of administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
official has made an error in the application of this chapter, in the factual
situation as it relates to the application of the chapter, or both.
   (E)   Where the Inspector determines that the period of time stated in the
original warning citation is not sufficient for abatement based upon the work
required or based upon a schedule agreed upon with the violator for abatement,
the Inspector may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
(Ord. passed 1-13-1998)
CHAPTER 152:  ABANDONED STRUCTURES
Section
   
152.01   Findings; intent
   
152.02   Duties of town official
   
152.03   Powers of Town Clerk
   
152.04   Standards of enforcement
   
152.05   Procedure for enforcement
   
152.06   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
152.07   In rem action by Town Clerk; placarding
   
152.08   Costs or lien on premises
   
152.09   Alternative remedies
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  FINDINGS; INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exist within the town abandoned structures
which the Town Board finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the town due to the attraction or insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. §
160A-441, it is the intent of this chapter to provide for the repair, closing
or demolition of any such abandoned structures in accordance with the same
provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing or
demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.02  DUTIES OF TOWN OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Town Clerk is hereby designated as the town officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk:
      (1)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   To take such action pursuant to this chapter as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or
assigned to him or her by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.03  POWERS OF TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary to
carry out the intent and the provisions of this chapter, including the
following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the condition or buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for the purpose or making inspections;
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   To designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.04  STANDARDS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this chapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this chapter, the Town Clerk may, by way of
illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code,
the Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in such structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitute a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.05  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by at least five residents of the town charging that
any structure exists in violation of this chapter or whenever it appears to the
Town Clerk, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof, he
or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in such structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Town Clerk at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of said
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to such structure. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and
give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Town Clerk shall state in
writing his or her determination whether such structure violates this chapter.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is in violation, he
or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve
such structure or else remove or demolish the same within a specified period of
time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Town Clerk within the time specified therein, the
Town Clerk may submit to the Town Board at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing an appointed attorney to petition the Superior Court for
an order directing such owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Town Clerk within the time specified therein, if
injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in
division (D) below, the Town Clerk shall submit to the Town Board an ordinance
ordering the Town Clerk to cause such structure to be removed or demolished, as
provided in the original order of the Town Clerk, and pending such removal or
demolition, to placard such dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
   (D)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Town Clerk shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining the Town Clerk pending a final disposition of the cause, as
provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.06  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Town Clerk shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Town Clerk
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Town Clerk shall make an affidavit
to that effect, and the serving of such complaint or order upon such person may
be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at
least once no later than the time at which personal service is required under §
152.05. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.07  IN REM ACTION BY TOWN CLERK; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Town Clerk issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and upon
adoption by the governing body of an ordinance authorizing and directing him or
her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
152.05(C), the Town Clerk shall proceed to cause such structure to be removed
or demolished, as directed, by the ordinance of the governing body and shall
cause to be posted on the main entrance of such structure a placard prohibiting
the use or occupation of the structure.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08  COSTS OR LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6), the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Town Clerk pursuant to this chapter
shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and the costs
collected as provided by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.09  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Use or occupation of a building, as posted in §
152.07, shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-9-1982)
CHAPTER 153:  STREET NAMES AND ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and authority
   
153.02   Street address system
   
153.03   Street address assignment
   
153.04   Change of existing address
   
153.05   Notification
   
153.06   Alphabet not used
   
153.07   Street names
   
153.08   Street name prefix and suffix
   
153.09   Street name signs
   
153.10   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of the town street address assignment standards is to
provide for the orderly assignment of street addresses to protect the safety of
the general public by facilitating the finding of individual dwellings and
businesses for the delivery of public and private goods and services. The town
is the only agency with the authority to assign or modify street addresses
within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Graphics serve only to illustrate the text. In any case where the
graphic conflicts with the text, the text shall take precedence.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.02  STREET ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Establishment of grid system.
      (1)   Establishment. Main Street (U.S. 311) and a perpendicular line at
the intersection of Depot Street and Main Street (known hereafter as the Depot
Street line) are the base lines used in numbering a street in a north/south or
east/west direction. Streets running north and south from the Depot Street line
shall be numbered starting with the 100 block. Streets running east and west
from Main Street and U.S. 311 shall be numbered starting with the 100 block.
Refer to Figure 1: Walnut Cove Grid Map.
[Image]
 
[Image]
   Figure 1:  Walnut Cove Grid Map
      (2)   Exception. Certain major roads shall maintain the county address
system to maintain consistency until the town deems it feasible to adopt the
town’s address system for these roads. The roads in the town that shall be
assigned address numbers on the county system are N.C. 65 west from U.S. 311
(Main Street), N.C. 89, U.S. 311 beyond the N.C. 89 split, Fowler Road and
Martin Luther King Drive. Furthermore, Lakeside Drive shall begin at the 100
block at the intersection of First Street.
   (B)   Odd-even numbers. Going north and south, even addresses will be on the
western (or left side when oriented from the south) side of the street and odd
addresses will be on the eastern side (or right side when oriented from the
south) of the street. Going east and west, even numbers shall be on the north
side (or left side when oriented from the west) of the street and odd numbers
will be on the south side (or right side when oriented from the west).
   (C)   Spacing of numbers. Because there is no way of determining how many
structures will eventually be built on vacant land or a large parcel within a
block, any system which attempts to number structures consecutively does not
provide the flexibility to accommodate change. A street number is assigned for
each 50 feet of lot frontage.
   (D)   Corner lot. Corner lots are assigned two numbers since the unit could
face either street. The first choice for an address shall be on the secondary
street unless the front of the structure cannot face the secondary street
because of lot configuration. This rule does not apply to nonresidential land
uses. The owner or developer shall be assigned the street address that
accommodates the front entrance of the structure at the time of permit
application.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.03  STREET ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   Primary address. Each unit of property will be assigned a primary
address. Primary addresses will consist of up to four numerals, and will be
determined by the block in which the property is located. Single-family
structures (attached or detached) and townhouses are assigned individual street
numbers for each unit.
   (B)   Secondary address.
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings. Apartment, twin homes, duplexes and
condominiums are assigned secondary addresses. The secondary address will
include the primary address followed by a dash and a number and/or letter. An
example would be “1621-A Smith Street” with “1621” being the primary address
and “A” being the secondary address. The first unit on the first floor would be
addresses “1621-1A Smith Street;” the second floor “1621-2A Smith Street” and
the like. If the complex contains private drives with street signs posted, each
building shall be assigned a numerical address and each sub-unit shall be
assigned a secondary number.
      (2)   Nonresidential buildings. Office, commercial and industrial
buildings with more than one tenant are also assigned secondary addresses. The
secondary address will include the primary address followed by a suite number.
The first unit on the first floor would be addressed “1621 Smith Street, Suite
101,” the second floor “1621 Smith Street, Suite 201” and the like.
      (3)   Timing. Addresses are assigned following preliminary plat or site
plan approval for single- family attached or cluster developments, townhouses
and condominiums and nonresidential group development. Approval of a final plat
is required for conventional single-family developments before numbers are
assigned and building permits issued. The Administrator is furnished with an
approved plat or site plan on which to assign addresses. The plat or site plan
will be kept on file in the Town Hall.
      (4)   Posting of addresses.
         (a)   A clearly visible address shall be posted within three feet of
the front entry door with three-inch or larger numbers.
         (b)   If the front entry faces away from the road and the building is
clearly visible from the road then a clearly visible address with three-inch or
larger numbers shall be posted on the side of the building facing the road.
         (c)   If the building is not visible from the road, a clearly visible
address shall be displayed with three-inch or larger numbers on the following:
            1.   Mailbox;
            2.   Mailbox post; or
            3.   Separately (See Figure 2: Posting address separately) and
clearly visible 50 feet from the centerline of the road and no more than ten
feet measured linear feet along the road from the primary access driveway.
[Image]
Figure 2:  Posting Address Separately
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.04  CHANGE OF EXISTING ADDRESS.
   (A)   Assigning new addresses. In assigning new addresses, as few existing
addresses as possible will be changed. The Administrator shall be authorized to
change addresses where necessary.
   (B)   Appeal. The Administrator’s decision may be appealed to the Town Board
of Commissioners for a final decision.
   (C)   Reason for change.
      (1)   Existing addresses may be changed for just cause.
      (2)   Examples of just cause are:
         (a)   Area where no addresses were left for vacant lot(s);
         (b)   Street name change approved by Planning Board;
         (c)   Person unknowingly using the wrong address;
         (d)   Change from rural route and box number to urban street address
number; and
         (e)   Street address number series presently in use is incorrect and
misleading.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.05  NOTIFICATION.
   The Town Hall will notify all necessary local government departments,
utility service companies and the United States postal service of any new
assignment or change in street address.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.06  ALPHABET NOT USED.
   The letters “I” and “O” will not be used in street addresses.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.07  STREET NAMES.
   (A)   New streets. The developer shall submit names for new sheets contained
within proposed developments. Proposed streets obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall be given the same name; in no other case shall the name
of proposed streets duplicate existing street names within the county. The
proposed name shall not be phonetically similar to existing names irrespective
of suffix. All proposed new street names shall first be checked against the
county EMS street name database. All new street names shall be approved by the
Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Existing streets. In no other case shall the proposed name duplicate
existing street names within the county. The proposed name shall not be
phonetically similar to existing names irrespective of suffix. Any proposed
name change or assignment to an unnamed street shall first be checked against
the county EMS street name database. Street name changes or assignments to an
existing street shall be approved by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.08  STREET NAME PREFIX AND SUFFIX.
   (A)   Prefixes.
      (1)   The prefix “North” shall be used for the northern portion of
roadways having the same name, according to each user’s grid system.
      (2)   The prefix “South” shall be used for the southern portion of
roadways having the same name, according to each user’s grid system.
      (3)   The prefix “East” shall be used for the eastern portion of roadways
having the same name, according to each user’s grid system.
      (4)   The prefix “West” shall be used for the western portion of roadways
having the same name, according to each user’s grid system.
      (5)   The prefix “N.C. Highway” (N.C. Hwy.) shall be used for all state
numbered routes or roadways.
      (6)   The prefix “U.S. Highway” (U.S. Hwy.) shall be used for all federal
numbered routes or roadways, excluding those on interstate system.
   (B)   Suffixes.
      (1)   The suffixes “Avenue,” “Road” and “Street” shall be used for
roadways running generally in a north-south, or east-west direction or parallel
to the base line for the grid system.
      (2)   The suffixes “Drive,” “Trail” and “Trace” shall be used for
roadways which follow a wandering alignment in different directions and
generally have scenic attractiveness.
      (3)   The suffixes “Boulevard” and “Parkway” shall be used for divided
roadways, the sides of which are separated by a park or open median strip for
their main extent.
      (4)   The suffixes “Terrace,” “Lane,” “Place,” “Point,” “Cove,” “Dale” or
“Way” shall be used for short roadways with an exit from one end only (dead
end) with no potential for extension.
      (5)   The suffix “Court” shall be used for cul-de-sacs.
      (6)   The suffix “Circle” shall be used for short roadways that are
circular or semi-circular in form and intersect the roadways from which they
emanate at two different places.
      (7)   The suffix “Alley” shall be used for short roadways of substandard
width as between buildings or at the rear of properly, generally used for
service.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.09  STREET NAME SIGNS.
   For new public streets, private streets and private lanes, street name signs
and traffic control signs shall be installed to the town street sign standards
within the town limits and county street sign standards for the
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the address is
posted according to the requirements of this chapter for new construction or
additions.
   (B)   No new building permits shall be issued for parcels with existing
structures until an address is posted according to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   All existing buildings in the town at the time of the adoption of this
chapter shall have an address posted according to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Town Administrator and the Building
Inspector to enforce this chapter.
   (E)   Noncompliance with this chapter shall make the owner of said property
subject to §
153.99.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not exceeding $50 or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 154:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Objectives
Definitions
   
154.015   Definitions
General Provisions
   
154.030   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.031   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
154.032   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.033   Compliance
   
154.034   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.035   Interpretation
   
154.036   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.050   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
154.051   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
154.052   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.053   Corrective procedures
   
154.054   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.065   General standards
   
154.066   Specific standards
   
154.067   Standards for floodplain without established base flood elevations
   
154.068   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
154.069   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
154.070   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Legal Status Provisions
   
154.085   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
154.086   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
154.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 154.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the state has in G.S. Chapter 143, Article 21, Part
6; G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8; and G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 8 delegated to local governmental the responsibility units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners ordains as follows.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.002  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.003  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.004  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.015  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community, July 15, 1986.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power. This term describes federal,
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A, Article 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the United States Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program.
      (2)   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
United States Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State
Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land where three or more
manufactured homes are located that are utilized as dwelling units and a rental
fee is paid to the landowner or park operator.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), as corrected in
1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD), as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations, July 15, 1986 and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map, May 6, 1986.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map, May 6, 1986.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1—A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). SHEAR WALLS are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
154.031.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place during any one-year
period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions: or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.050 through
154.054 and 154.065 through 154.070 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such
time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.030  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable, of
the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.031  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
flood insurance study (FIS) and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM), for the county dated May 16, 2007, which are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial flood insurance rate maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   Walnut Cove incorporated area, dated May 6, 1986; and
      (2)   Stokes County unincorporated area, dated September 30, 1988.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.032  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.031.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.033  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.034  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.035  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.036  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.050  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager, or designee, hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.051  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance, existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.031 or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.031;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.031;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
154.031,
154.052 or
154.068;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
154.066(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE
and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining and the like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
154.066(F) and (G) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
154.031;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable; and
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 83-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If nonresidential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan and an
inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any
new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by the same.
The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured home. If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A,
AO, AE or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.066(C)(2).
      (4)   Watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a
professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed project
on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.066(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.066(G); and
         (3)   Accessory structures less than 144 square feet meeting
requirements of §
154.066(H).
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.052  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise the permittee if additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining
and the like) are required and assure that copies of such permits are provided
and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.069 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.051(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
154.051(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
154.051(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
154.051(C) and 154.066(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
154.031, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
154.067(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
154.031, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to apply for
a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of
map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
154.053;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
154.031, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change,
issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.053  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building, or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.054  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments, as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.015, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3) and (I)(5) below have
been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; and
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as a
functionally dependent facility (as defined under § 154.015), where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval;
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship: and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.065  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These include, but are
not limited to: HVAC equipment; water softener units; bath/kitchen fixtures;
ductwork; electric/gas meter panels/boxes; utility/cable boxes; hot water
heaters; and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection-elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
154.054(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
154.051(C).
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.066  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
154.031 or 154.067, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
§
154.065, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.015.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.015. Structures located in A, AE, AO and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
154.070(B)(2). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
154.051(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.015.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door) or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary nonresidential structures.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for a
temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain Administrator
a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash
flood or other type of flood warning notification.
      (2)   The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The timeframe prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of fioodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
154.065(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.065(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (D)(3) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 144 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with division (C)
above.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.067  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
154.031, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §§
154.065 and
154.066, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
154.065 and
154.066.
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
154.031 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.015.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.068  STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
154.065 and
154.066; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.069  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.031.
   (B)   The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (C)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
154.065 and
154.066, shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (C)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter; and
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
154.066(C); and
         (b)   The no-encroachment standard of division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.070  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.031 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
154.065 and
154.066, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least feet above the
highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (B)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §§
154.051(C) and 154.066(B).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 154.085  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted May 6, 1986, as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town enacted on May 6, 1986, as amended, which are not reenacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.086  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator, or his or her authorized agents, before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
CHAPTER 155:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Authority
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Purpose
   
155.005   Administrative Officer
   
155.006   Application of chapter
   
155.007   Exemptions
   
155.008   Prerequisite for plat recordation
   
155.009   Removal of rubbish
Definitions
   
155.020   Subdivision defined
   
155.021   Other definitions
   
155.022   Word interpretation
Review Procedure for Major Subdivision Plats
   
155.035   Sketch design plan
   
155.036   Preliminary plat
   
155.037   Construction phase
   
155.038   Final plat
Review Procedure for Minor Subdivision Plats
   
155.050   Objective
   
155.051   Minor subdivision defined
   
155.052   Review procedure
   
155.053   Final plat requirements
   
155.054   Appeal procedures
   
155.055   Certifications required
Requirements for Preliminary and Final Plats
   
155.070   Requirements for preliminary and final plats
Installation of Permanent Reference Points
   
155.085   Permanent reference points
General Requirements and Minimum Standards
   
155.100   General requirements for all subdivisions
   
155.101   Street layout guidelines
   
155.102   Design standards for streets
   
155.103   Blocks
   
155.104   Lots
   
155.105   Easements
   
155.106   Storm water drainage
   
155.107   Water and sewer systems
   
155.108   Water and sewer lines construction standards
   
155.109   Sidewalks and streets
   
155.110   Minimum construction standards for subdivision roads and related
improvements
Watershed Regulations
   
155.125   General
   
155.126   Preliminary plat
   
155.127   Storm water drainage facilities
   
155.128   Road construction
   
155.129   Recordings of plat
   
155.130   Certificate of approval
   
155.131   Residential limitations
   
155.132   Lot lines problem
   
155.133   Recording with Register of Deeds
Legal Provisions
   
155.145   General procedure for plat approval
   
155.146   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
155.147   Variances
   
155.148   Amendments
   
155.149   Abrogation
   
155.150   Effective date
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the subdivision regulations of Walnut Cove,
North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.002  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of the
G.S. Chapter 160A.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.003  JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land as defined by this
chapter within the town and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.004  PURPOSE.
   The goal of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of land within town’s planning jurisdiction.
Specific objectives shall include, but not be limited to, the following: ensure
the proper legal description, identification, monumentation and the recording
of real estate boundaries; promote the orderly layout and appropriate use of
the land; provide suitable building sites which are readily accessible to
emergency vehicles; assure the proper installation of streets and utilities;
and generally help conserve and protect the physical and economic resources of
the community.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.005  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Town Manager shall function as the Administrator and shall have overall
administrative responsibility for this chapter. His or her duties shall
include: reviewing sketch plans with the developers; reviewing and approving
minor subdivision plats; determining whether or not plats meet the requirements
specified in this chapter; sending proposed subdivision plats to outside
experts such as the State Department of Transportation, state and county health
officials in order to receive their comments; presenting subdivision plats at
the meetings of Review Committees and the Planning Board; and ensuring approved
final plats are recorded in the County Register of Deeds office.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.006  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is applicable to all divisions of a tract or parcel of land
into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of sale or building development, and shall include
all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in
existing streets.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.007  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall not be included nor be subject to the regulations
prescribed by this chapter:*
   (A)   The division of a lot from an original tract provided the new lots
conform to the standards of the town zoning regulations. The number of
divisions out of the original tract shall be limited to one per 12-month
period. Should additional divisions be requested, the subdivision procedure
shall apply;
   (B)   * Access to new lots shall provide a minimum 50-foot easement or the
minimum right-of-way required by NCDOT for new roads; and
   (C)   For additional exempt subdivisions see §
155.020.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.008  PREREQUISITE FOR PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision of
land within the community’s planning jurisdiction shall comply with the
requirements specified in this chapter before any lots can be sold.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.009  REMOVAL OF RUBBISH.
   (A)   The subdivider shall remove or bury all cut or fallen trees, stumps or
rubbish from the subdivision.
   (B)   Any burial site under two acres in size shall require a land clearing
and inert debris landfill permit from the State Department of Environment,
Health and Natural Resources, Division of Solid Waste Management.
   (C)   If over two acres in size, a demolition landfill permit shall be
required from the same agency.
   (D)   Under no conditions shall a burial site be located directly under a
building although it may be located on the same lot as a building. (All burial
sites shall be shown on the final plat.)
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
DEFINITIONS
§ 155.020  SUBDIVISION DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Includes all subdivisions that are not classified as
minor subdivisions and are not classified as an exempt subdivision.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Include all subdivisions that:
      (1)   Front an existing public, state or locally maintained road; and
      (2)   Contain six lots or less.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and includes all division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
however, the following is not included within this definition and is not
subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Exemptions:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town, as
shown in its subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
not greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to
or exceed the standards of the town, as shown in this chapter;
         (e)   The division of property among heirs for the sole purpose of
settling an estate. (This exemption does not relieve the property owner from
this or any other ordinance or regulations of the town); and
         (f)   The division of gravesites within a cemetery.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.021  OTHER DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside primarily for
vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
on a street.
   BUFFER STRIP. Provides a visual barrier between incompatible land uses. An
undisturbed natural area may be used if it provides an effective screen. When a
buffer is planted, it shall consist of deciduous or evergreen trees, spaced not
more than ten feet apart, planted so that one tree is offset from the next one,
and not less than one row of dense shrubs spaced not more than five feet apart.
Regardless of which type of buffer used, it shall be at least ten feet in width
and eight feet in height immediately after planting. The Planning Board may
permit a solid fence to be installed, if the design is approved by the
Administrator. Also, the Planning Board may require a larger BUFFER STRIP where
it is necessary for the benefit of the community and/or adjoining residents.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building and the street right-of-way line or
any other lot line as determined by the town zoning regulations.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
DEDICATION must be made by written instrument and is completed with an
acceptance.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT TYPES
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees
and less than 135 degrees with each other. The street line forming the least
frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot except where the two street lines
are equal, in which case the owner shall be required to specify which is the
front when requesting a building permit.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
at street.
      (3)   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot, which is not accessible from one of
the parallel or nonintersecting streets upon which it fronts.
      (4)   LOT, THROUGH (DOUBLE-FRONTAGE). A lot which fronts upon two
parallel streets, or which fronts upon two streets, which do not intersect at
the boundaries of the lot.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided, and meeting the requirements of G.S. § 47.30, as amended.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites, or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
   PRIVATE STREET. A roadway providing access to three or more lots, building
sites or other divisions of land, and not to be dedicated to the public.
PRIVATE STREETS shall be so designated on the final plat of a subdivision. A
written disclosure statement is required in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling units
and approved by the County Health Department or the State Department of Natural
Resources and Community Development, Division of Environmental Management.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
      (1)   A system for the provision to the public of piped water for human
consumption if such system has at least 15 service connections or regularly
serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the
year. Such terms include:
         (a)   Any collection, treatment, storage and distribution facility
under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection
with such system; and
         (b)   Any collection or pretreatment storage facility not under such
control, which is used primarily in connection with such system.
      (2)   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either a community water system or a non-
community water system.
         (a)   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which serves at
least 15 service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves
at least 25 year-round residents.
         (b)   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system, which is not
a community water system.
      (3)   Approval by the Sanitary Engineering Division, Division of Health
Services, Department of Human Resources, is required for all public water
systems.
   RECREATION AREA OR PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate such activities.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land (usually only a foot or two wide) owned
privately, and set aside around a subdivision in order to prevent access to
adjacent property by way of subdivision streets.
   RURAL ROADS.
      (1)   LOCAL ROAD. Serves primarily to provide access to adjacent land and
for travel over relatively short distances.
      (2)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road, which serves major intra-county travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
      (3)   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and larger
towns and providing intrastate through movement.
      (4)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road, which provides services to small local
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
      (5)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous routes
serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designed as principal arterials.
   SPECIAL TYPES OF RURAL ROADS.
      (1)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic and
the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround provided.
      (2)   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road, that is parallel to a full
or partial access controlled facility and functions to provide access to
adjacent land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.022  WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company, as well as an individual.
   (D)   The words “used for” shall include the meaning “designed for.”
   (E)   The word “structure” shall include the meaning “building.”
   (F)   The word “lot” shall include the meanings “plot,” “parcel” or “tract.”
   (G)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
REVIEW PROCEDURE FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 155.035  SKETCH DESIGN PLAN.
   (A)   The sketch plan review allows an exchange of information between the
developer and the regulating body. This step is mandatory for all subdivisions.
Normally it is an informal discussion between the developer and the
Administrator and other staff as determined by the Town Manager. The process is
simply an opportunity for the developer and the community to review the project
in light of the town’s development practices and requirements. No formal
application or fee is required. It is suggested, however, that plans should be
on the same size paper and scale as required for preliminary and final plat.
Once the review process has been completed, one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider and one copy kept on file in the office of the Administrator.
   (B)   It is important to remember that this review shall not in any way be
construed as constituting an official action of approval for recording of the
subdivision plat.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.036  PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Review procedure. The subdivider, or his or her authorized agent,
shall submit 12 copies of the preliminary plat of the total project, even if
the project is planned in phases, to the Administrator at least 21 days prior
to a regular meeting of the Planning Board. During this period, the planning
review staff, consisting of the Administrator and other appropriate personnel
as deemed necessary by the Town Manager, shall evaluate the plat to determine
whether or not it meets the requirements of this chapter. The Administrator may
receive comments from outside experts and agencies directly impacted by the
project. The comments from the planning review staff, along with those from any
outside experts or agencies, shall be submitted to the Planning Board. The
Planning Board shall approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the plat
within 45 days after first consideration; otherwise, the plat shall be deemed
automatically approved. (If the plat is approved conditionally, the 45-day
timeline starts over.) If the preliminary plat is not submitted to the
Administrator at least 21 days prior to the regular meeting of the Planning
Board, the plat may not be submitted to the Planning Board until their next
regular meeting.
   (B)   Appeal. If the subdivider disagrees with the Planning Board, he or she
may appeal to the Town Board of Commissioners, provided the appeal is made
within 30 days after the official action of the Planning Board. The appeal
shall be submitted to the Administrator in writing who shall forward it to the
Town Board of Commissioners at their next regular scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Number of copies and graphic media. The subdivider shall submit, at
least, 12 black or blueline prints of the preliminary plat to the
Administrator. If more copies are required, he or she may request additional
copies be submitted.
   (D)   Scale and size of sheets. The preliminary plat shall be at a scale of
not larger than one inch to 200 feet and be drawn on a sheet with an outside
dimension of not more than 18 inches by 24 inches.
   (E)   Authorized preparer of plats. The preliminary plat shall be prepared
by a surveyor or engineer licensed and registered to practice in the state.
   (F)   Administrative fees. At the time of submission of the preliminary
plat, the subdivider shall pay to the town a filing fee as established by the
Town Board.
   (G)   Contents required. The preliminary plat shall depict or contain the
information specified in §§
155.050 through
155.055 and other applicable provisions of these regulations. If the project is
to be done in phases, the entire project shall be shown on the preliminary plat
with each phase indicated. (Plats not illustrating or containing the
information required shall be returned to the subdivider or his or her
authorized agent for completion and resubmission).
   (H)   Action by the Planning Board. If the preliminary plat is approved
without any additional conditions, the subdivider shall submit construction
plans prepared by a licensed engineer to the Administrator. If approved
conditionally, a revised plat showing the required changes shall be submitted
to the Administrator for verification prior to submitting any construction
plans. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the Planning Board shall specify
the reasons for such action in writing. One copy of such reasons shall be
returned to the subdivider and one copy retained by the Administrator. When a
preliminary plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make the recommended
changes and submit a revised preliminary plat to the Administrator within 60
days after the Planning Board action.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.037  CONSTRUCTION PHASE.
   (A)   Installation of improvements. Once the preliminary plat has been
approved, and the construction plans reviewed and approved by the town, the
subdivider can begin development activities on the site. All construction plans
shall be sealed by a licensed engineer in the state. All water and sewer lines,
roads, drainage plans shall be approved by the town to ensure compliance with
the sewer and water policies, State Department of Transportation, secondary
road standards or other applicable development standards.
   (B)   Improvements installed prior to submittal of final plat. Before a
final plat is eligible for review by the staff and approval by the Planning
Board, all site improvements shall be installed or guarantees approved as
specified below in division (E) below.
   (C)   Performance guarantees. If a subdivider wants to record a final plat
without installing all the required site improvements, the town may accept a
guarantee for those improvements.
   (D)   Defects guarantees. The town shall require a bond guaranteeing utility
taps, curbs, gutters, street pavement, sidewalks, drainage facilities, water
and sewer lines and other improvements against defects for one year from the
date of acceptance by the town. Within the final 30 days prior to the
expiration of the one-year defects guarantee, the town shall inspect the
project to ensure it is in good working order.
   (E)   Types of guarantees. Types of guarantees include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   A surety bond by a surety company licensed to do business in the
state;
      (2)   Certified check to be cashed by the town with the proceeds held in
an escrow account; or
      (3)   Letter of credit from a bank licensed in the state. Such guarantees
shall be in an amount of 150% of the estimated cost of the required
improvements. All estimates shall be prepared by an engineer licensed in the
state and submitted to the Town Manager. Performance guarantees shall be
approved by the Town Board of Commissioners, or the Town Manager if authorized
by them. The guarantees shall run for one year and can be renewed. As work
progresses, a percentage equal to the completed phase’s cost can be released.
To avoid unnecessary administrative cost, the town may release guarantees only
when the project is 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% completed.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.038  FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit copies of the final plat to the
Administrator at least 14 days prior to the regular meeting of the Planning
Board. During this 14-day period, the Administrator shall review the document
and determine whether or not the final plat substantially agrees with the
approved preliminary plat and construction plans. If substantial differences
exist, the plat shall be submitted to the Planning Board as a new preliminary
plat.
      (2)   Substantial changes shall include, but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Changing the number of lots; or
         (b)   Creating a new street.
      (3)   After the Planning Board receives a properly prepared final plat,
it shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 45 days after first
consideration; otherwise, the plat shall automatically be approved.
   (B)   Appeal. If the subdivider disagrees with the Planning Board, he or she
may appeal to the Town Board of Commissioners, provided the appeal is made
within 30 days after the official action of the Planning Board. The appeal
shall be submitted to the Administrator in writing who shall forward it the
Town Board of Commissioners at its next regular scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Number of copies and graphic media. Twelve paper copies shall be
submitted to the Administrator.
   (D)   Scale and size of sheets. The final plat shall be of a size suitable
for recording with the County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not
less than one inch equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet
with appropriate match lines.
   (E)   Authorized preparer of final plat. The final plat shall be prepared by
a surveyor or engineer licensed and registered to practice in the state.
   (F)   Administrative fees. At the time of submittal of the final plat, the
subdivider shall pay the town a filing fee as established by the Town Board.
   (G)   Certifications required. The final plat shall contain the following
certifications before it is submitted to the Administrator.
      (1)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
 
I (we) hereby certify that I (we are) am the owner(s) of the property shown and described hereon and that I (we)
hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my (our) free consent, establish all lots, and dedicate all roads, walks,
parks, easements, rights-of-way, and other open spaces to public or private uses as noted.
 
Owner                                                                     Date                                        
               
 
Owner                                                                     Date                                        
               
 
 
      (2)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
 
Certificate of Survey and Accuracy
 
State of North Carolina,                                                          County, I,                            
                             certify that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey
made by me) (an actual survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book                 , Page      
          , Book                 , Page                 , etc.) (other); that the ratio of precision as calculated by
latitudes and departure is 1:                                          (that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as
broken lines plotted from information found in Book               , Page               ); that this map was prepared in
accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended. Witness my hand and seal this                  day of                 A.D.    
            .
 
Official Seal                  Registered Land Surveyor                                                       
 
                        Registration Number                                                              
 
I, (officer authorized to take acknowledgments) do hereby certify that (name of registered surveyor) personally appeared
before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this certificate. Witness my hand and (where an official seal is
required by law) official seal this the                 day of                 ,                 .
 
Official Seal               Signature of Officer                                                        
 
 
      (3)   Certificate of approval of the design and installation of streets,
utilities and other required improvements.
 
Certificate of Approval of the Design and Installation of Streets, Utilities and Other Required Improvements
 
I hereby certify that all streets, utilities and other required improvements have been installed in an acceptable manner and
according to the Town of Walnut Cove’s specifications and standards in the                                                  
subdivision or that guarantees of the installation of the required improvements in an amount and manner satisfactory to the Town
of                                                          has been received, and that the filing fee for this plat, in the
amount of $                  has been paid.
 
                                                                                                                                
   
Date                                        Town Manager, Town of Walnut Cove
 
 
      (4)   Certificate of approval for recording by Planning Board.
 
Certificate of Approval for Recording by Planning Board
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the Subdivision Regulations of Walnut
Cove, North Carolina, with the exception of such variances, if any, as are noted in the minutes of the Planning Board and
recorded on the plat and that it has been approved by the Walnut Cove Planning Board at their regular meeting of for recording
in the Office of the Register of Deeds.
 
                                                                                                                                
   
Date                                       Chairman, Walnut Cove Planning Board
 
 
   (H)   Contents of final plat. The final plat shall substantially conform to
the preliminary plat as it was approved. It shall also conform to the
provisions of plats, subdivisions and mapping requirements as set forth in the
G.S. § 47-30, as amended, and the Standards of Practice of Land Surveying in
North Carolina. It shall depict or contain the information specified in §§
155.050 through
155.055. (Plats not illustrating or containing the information required shall
be returned to the subdivider, or his or her authorized agent, for completion
and resubmission.)
   (I)   Disposition of final plat. One reproducible copy shall be signed and
executed as required for recording by the Register of Deeds within 30 days
after approval by the Planning Board. One copy shall be recorded in the
Register of Deeds office. The subdivider shall also submit a paper copy to the
Administrator after the plat has been recorded.
   (J)   Plan submittal time limit. The initial phase(s) shall be submitted not
more than 12 months after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved;
otherwise, the approval of the preliminary plat shall be null and void. In that
case, the preliminary plat shall be resubmitted as if it were a new
subdivision.
   (K)   Phase development. The final plat shall represent only that portion of
the preliminary plat that the subdivider plans to record.
   (L)   Resubdivision procedures. For any replatting or resubdivision of land,
the same procedures, rules and regulations shall apply as required for the
original subdivision.
   (M)   Recording final plat. The subdivider shall be responsible for
recording the final plat in the County Register of Deeds office within 30 days
after final approval. A paper copy of the recorded plat shall be given the
Administrator by the subdivider within five working days after recordation.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
REVIEW PROCEDURE FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 155.050  OBJECTIVE.
   An abbreviated process shall be permitted to simplify and speed up the
review procedure for handling minor subdivision plats without undermining the
objectives of the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.051  MINOR SUBDIVISION DEFINED.
   A minor subdivision shall include all subdivisions that:
   (A)   Front on an existing public, state or locally maintained road; and
   (B)   Contain six lots or less.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.052  REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit a sketch development plan to the
Administrator. At this stage, the Administrator and the subdivider shall
informally review the proposed subdivision to ensure it meets the requirements
of a minor plat.
   (B)   After this initial review has been completed, the subdivider shall
prepare a final plat as specified in §
155.070 and submit it to the Planning Board for approval.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the final plat within
45 days after first consideration; otherwise, the plat shall be automatically
approved.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.053  FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The abbreviated procedure for minor plats does not change the requirements
for final plats as specified in §
155.070.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.054  APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   If the subdivider disagrees with the decision of the Planning Board, the
subdivider may appeal to the Board of Commissioners at its next regular
meeting. To allow adequate review time, the appeal shall be made at least 12
days prior to the regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.055  CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The final plat shall contain the following certifications before it is
submitted to the Planning Board:
   (A)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
 
I (we) hereby certify that I (we are) am the owner(s) of the property shown and described hereon and that I (we)
hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my (our) free consent.
 
Owner                                                               Date                                          
             
 
 
   (B)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
 
Certificate of Survey and Accuracy
 
State of North Carolina,                                                         County. I,                                
                         certify that this map was drawn under my supervision from an actual survey made under my
supervision. Witness my hand and seal the                  day of                 A.D.                 .
 
 
                              Registered Land Surveyor                                                        
 
                              Registration Number                                                              
 
 
   (C)   Certificate of approval for recording by Administrative Officer.
 
Certificate of Approval for Recording by Administrative Officer
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the Subdivision Regulations of Walnut
Cove, North Carolina, with the exception of such variances, if any, as noted in the minutes of the Planning Board and
recorded on the plat and that it has been approved for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds
 
                                                                                                                             
     
Date                              Administrative Officer, Town of Walnut Cove
 
 
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS
§ 155.070  REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
Requirements for Preliminary and Final Plats
 Preliminary Plat Final Plat
Requirements for Preliminary and Final Plats
                                                                               Preliminary Final
                                                                               Plat        Plat
1.  Title block containing:
   Name of subdivision                                                      x           x
   Name of owner                                                            x           x
   Name of subdivider                                                       x           x
   Name of engineer, registered surveyor and land use planner               x           x
   Date                                                                     x           x
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch                                        x           x
2.  Vicinity map                                                              x           x
3.  North arrow                                                               x           x
4.  Site data:
   Total acreage                                                            x           x
   Acreage in parks and recreational uses and other nonresidential uses     x           x
   Total number of parcels produced                                         x           x
   Acreage in smallest lot subdivision                                      x           x
5.  Boundaries of tract shown with bearings and distances                     x           x
6.  The location of any natural or human-made features which may affect the
suitability of the land for subdivision such as watercourses, rock outcrops,   x
electric transmission lines and the like
7.  The existing and proposed uses on the proposed subdivision, lots and if   x           x
known, on the adjoining parcels
8.  Name of the owners of adjoining properties                                x           x
9.  The name of any adjoining subdivision of records as proposed and under    x           x
review
10.  Zoning classification, if any, both on the land to be subdivided and on  x           x
adjoining land
11.  Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on adjoining   x           x
properties
12.  Minimum building setback                                                 x           x
13.  Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers and approximate dimensions     x           x
14.  The following data concerning streets:
   Proposed streets                                                         x           x
   Location and dimension of rights-of-way                                  x
   Pavement widths                                                          x           x
   Approximate grades                                                       x           x
   Street names                                                             x           x
   Street maintenance agreement if private streets are allowed              x           x
   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the proposed x
subdivision
15.  The following data concerning utilities:
   Location and dimension of easements                                      x           x
   Utility layouts including:                                                           x
   Sanitary sewer                                                           x           x
   Storm water                                                              x           x
   Water distribution                                                       x           x
   Natural gas                                                              x           x
   Telephone                                                                x           x
   Electric lines                                                                       x
16.  Other easements showing locations, widths and purposes                   x           x
17.  Location and dimension of areas to be used for other than residential    x           x
uses
18.  Areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use                         x           x
19.  Future ownership of recreation and open space lands                      x
20.  Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the
ground every straight or curved line, street line, lot line, right-of-way
line, easement line and setback line including dimensions, bearings or         x
deflection angles, radii, central angles and tangent distance for the
centerline of curved property lines that are not the boundary line of curved
streets
21.  All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and  x
all angles to the nearest minute
22.  The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and    x           x
control points
23.  A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants; such      x           x
restrictions are mandatory when private recreation areas are established
24.  A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the appropriate authorityx
 
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
INSTALLATION OF PERMANENT REFERENCE POINTS
§ 155.085  PERMANENT REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent reference points shall
have been placed in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Subdivision corner tie. At least one corner of the subdivision shall
be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker. If a corner is within 2,000 feet of a United States Coast and Geodetic
Station or state grid system, this corner shall be marked with a monument so
designated by computed “x” and “y” coordinates which shall appear on the map
with a statement identifying this station or monument and to an accuracy of 1:
5,000. Where such monument or station is not available, the tie shall be made
to some pertinent and readily recognizable landmark or identifiable point,
physical object or structure.
   (B)   Monuments. Within each block of a subdivision, at least two monuments
designed as control corners shall be installed. The surveyor shall employ
additional monuments when necessary. Monuments shall be constructed of concrete
and shall be at least four inches in diameter or square, and not less than
three feet in length. Each monument shall have imbedded in its top or attached
by a suitable means a metal plate of noncorrosive material and marked plainly
with the point, the surveyor’s registration and the word “Monument” or “Control
Corner.” A monument shall be set at least 30 inches in the ground with at least
six inches exposed above the ground unless this requirement is impractical
because of vehicular traffic or other factors.
   (C)   Property markers. A steel or wrought iron pipe or equivalent not less
than three-fourths inch in diameter and at least 30 inches in length shall be
set at all corners, except those located by monuments. A marker shall also be
set at a point of curve, point of intersection, property corner, point of
tangency, reference point and tangent unless a monument has already been placed
at these points. Additional markers shall be placed at other points of
importance.
   (D)   Accuracy. Land surveys, except subdivision corner ties, beyond the
corporate limits of any municipality, which are not subject to these
regulations, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Angular error of closure shall not exceed 30 seconds times the
square root of the number of angles turned; and
      (2)   Linear error of closure shall not exceed one foot per 5,000 feet of
perimeter of the lot of land (1:5,000).
   (E)   Block tie lines. Each block shall have at least one tie line showing
bearing and distance between one established point on each side of the road.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 155.100  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. All subdivisions and lots created under
this chapter must comply with all applicable local and state laws.
   (B)   Suitability of land. Land which has been determined by the Planning
Board on the basis of engineering or other expert surveys to pose an
ascertainable danger to life or property by reasons of its unsuitability for
the use proposed shall not be platted for that purpose unless and until the
subdivider has taken the necessary measures to correct or eliminate those
problems. A specific problem area that the Planning Board will examine
carefully is development in flood prone areas. In those areas, development
shall be in accordance with acceptable floodplain development principles.
   (C)   Conformity to existing maps or plans. The location and width of all
proposed roads shall be in conformity with official plans or maps of the town.
   (D)   Name of subdivision. The name of a subdivision shall not duplicate nor
closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision within the town’s
jurisdiction.
   (E)   Contour map. If, in the opinion of the Planning Board, the topographic
or drainage characteristics of the land to be subdivided warrant special
consideration, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Board a contour map
of the specified interval.
   (F)   Sedimentation pollution control. In order to prevent soil erosion and
sedimentation pollution of streams, springs, flat water bodies or other
drainage networks, the subdivider shall comply with all requirements of the
State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, G.S. Chapter 113A, Article
4, and any locally adopted sediment control ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.101  STREET LAYOUT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Street names. The name of a street shall not duplicate nor closely
approximate the name of an existing street within the town’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   Coordination and continuation of roads. The proposed road layout
within a subdivision shall be coordinated with the existing road system of the
surrounding area and, where possible, existing principle roads shall be
extended.
   (C)   Collector and local streets. Collector and local streets shall be so
laid out that their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Streets shall
be designed or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools and other places of public assembly.
   (D)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins an arterial roadway, the subdivider may be required to provide a
marginal access street parallel to the arterial roadway or reverse frontage on
a minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the roadway. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the arterial roadway.
   (E)   Access to the proposed subdivision. Every subdivision shall have
permanent access to a state-system road. Where it is necessary to cross the
lands of private property owners in order to provide access, the subdivider
shall provide documentation satisfactory to the Planning Board that he or she
has obtained from the property owners a permanent right-of-way from the state-
system road to his or her subdivision. The right-of-way shall be of sufficient
width that it could be developed as a state-system street. Full disclosure
concerning the rights-of-way shall be made on the final plat prior to recording
at the Register of Deeds office.
   (F)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Planning
Board, it is necessary to provide for road access to an adjoining property,
proposed roads shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property
and a temporary turnaround shall be provided.
   (G)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at an angle
less than 60 degrees.
      (2)   Property lines at street intersections shall be round with a
minimum radius of 20 feet. At an angle of intersection of less than 75 degrees,
a greater radius may be required. Where a street intersects a highway, the
design standards of the State Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways, shall be followed.
      (3)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless the Planning Board
grants exception. Intersections which cannot be aligned should be separated by
a minimum length of 200 feet between survey centerlines.
      (4)   Intersections with major or minor thoroughfares shall be at least
1,000 feet apart measured from centerline to centerline.
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs. Permanent dead-end streets shall not exceed 500 feet in
length and shall be provided with a turnaround having a roadway diameter of at
least 80 feet and a right-of-way diameter of at least 100 feet. Temporary dead-
end streets shall be provided with a roadway diameter of not less than 80 feet.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.102  DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
   (A)   Public street construction. All roads or streets and related storm
drainage facilities intended for dedication to the State Highway System or to
be maintained by the town shall comply with the standards specified in §
155.110. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to show documentation
to the Planning Board that he or she has met these standards.
   (B)   Curb and gutter drainage ditches for roads constructed in
extraterritorial jurisdiction. On collector and local residential roads located
in the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ), the subdivider shall provide
paved roadways, either with curb and gutter or drainage ditches. In either
case, they shall comply with the appropriate standards established by the State
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways.
   (C)   Right-of-way widths. All roads or streets shall conform with the
minimum state standards according to the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Highways. Where necessitated by adverse topographic conditions and
with the approval of the State Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways, the required right-of-way width may be reduced.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.103  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet nor more than
1,400 feet in length.
   (B)   Block width. Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of
lots of minimum depth except where single-tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
or when abutting a water area.
   (C)   Pedestrian crosswalks. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a
pedestrian crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide
convenient public access to a public area such as a stream, river or lake.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.104  LOTS.
   (A)   Smallest lot. All lots in a new subdivision shall conform to the town
zoning regulation requirements for minimum lot size.
   (B)   Double frontage lots. Lots that front on two streets should be avoided
whenever possible.
   (C)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
to or radial to street lines.
   (D)   Building setback lines. The zoning regulations shall establish the
building setback lines.
   (E)   Panhandle lots. The Planning Board may approve panhandle lots in
exceptional cases where it is impractical to serve an isolated lot by a public
road or street. The frontage of the panhandle lot shall have a minimum width of
25 feet providing a private drive between two regular lots to the isolated
building site. The area of such strip shall be excluded in computing the lot
area and lot width. The length of this strip shall not exceed 300 feet.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.105  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements. Easements for underground or above ground utilities
shall be provided where necessary across lots preferably centered on rear or
side lot lines and shall be at least ten feet in width.
   (B)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of such
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose as
determined by the best available floodplain maps (i.e., United States
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, FEMA flood hazard maps).
   (C)   Buffer strips. A buffer strip as defined in §
155.021 may be required by the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.106  STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   As part of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall present a storm
water drainage plan for his or her proposed subdivision to the Planning Board
for its review and approval.
   (B)   This plan shall incorporate the following basic design elements.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage as well as other development downstream
from the project.
      (4)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least three
feet of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance, and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
      (6)   Stream banks and channels downstream from any land-disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in
accordance with the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, being G.S.
Chapter 113A, Article 4, and NCAC Title 15A, Chapter 4.
      (7)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the North Carolina Dam Safety Law of 1967, being G.S. §§ 143-
215.23 et seq., and the NCAC Title 15A, Subchapter 2K.
      (8)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.107  WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Water supplies. Where a public water system is reasonably accessible,
the subdivider should connect each lot to that system. Otherwise, each lot
shall have an approved individual well water system. The subdivider shall pay
the full cost of connection to the system.
   (B)   Sewer system. A new subdivision with more than ten lots and located
within 1,000 feet of adequate sewer lines shall connect to that system. The
town may require subdivisions containing ten lots or fewer to connect to the
system. The decision of the town shall be based on density of development,
feasibility of connecting and other relevant factors. Other areas in the town
planning area may be served by public sewer, if approved by the town. When a
new subdivision is not connected to public sewer, each lot in that development
shall have an approved wastewater disposal system approved by the County Health
Department or the State Department of Environment, Health and Natural
Resources, Division of Environmental Management before a building permit is
issued. The subdivider shall pay the full cost of connecting to the system.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.108  WATER AND SEWER LINES CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Water lines. Water lines shall meet the standards of the town.
   (B)   Sewer lines. Sanitary sewer lines, connections and equipment shall be
in accordance with the town utilities standards.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. All hydrants shall be located within 500 feet of any
residential dwelling. All hydrants shall be located on water lines not less
than six-inch inner diameter, or with a flow of not less than 500 gallons per
minute. Also, all hydrants shall have steamer connections, which have national
standard threads.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.109  SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   Sidewalks and/or streetlights may be required by the Town Planning Board on
one side or both sides of the street in areas likely to be subject to heavy
pedestrian traffic such as near schools, recreational facilities and shopping
areas. Such sidewalks shall be constructed to a minimum width of four feet, and
shall consist of a minimum thickness of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks
shall be placed in the right-of-way, unless the development is platted as a
group development such as an apartment complex. Sidewalks shall consist of a
minimum of six inches of concrete at driveway crossings.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.110  MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION ROADS AND RELATED
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Road construction. All roads shall be constructed to meet the State
Department of Transportation Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards.
   (B)   Pavement widths. The required pavement widths shall be as follows:
 
Major subdivisions (more than 6 lots) 30 feet
Minor subdivisions (6 lots or less)   20 feet
 
   (C)   Drainage systems. All related drainage systems shall be constructed to
meet the State Department of Transportation standards.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
WATERSHED REGULATIONS
§ 155.125  GENERAL.
   Subdivision development within the watershed shall comply with §§
155.001 through
155.009, 155.020 through 155.022, 155.035 through 155.038, 155.050 through
155.055, 155.070, 155.085, 155.100 through 155.110, in addition to the special
provisions contained within this subchapter. This amendment to the existing
subdivision regulations is adopted under the authority of G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 21, § 143-214.5.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.126  PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   In addition to the procedures outlined in §§
155.038(A) and 155.052, the Enforcement Officer shall make a determination as
to whether or not the proposed development planned is within the protected area
(PA) of the watershed. In addition, subdivisions within a WS-IV watershed are
subject to the provisions of this subchapter only when an erosion and
sedimentation plan is required under the provisions of state law. Subdivisions
within the designated watershed area shall comply with provisions of this
subchapter and all other state and local requirements that may apply.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.127  STORM WATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of §
155.106, the subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts storm
water runoff away from surface waters and incorporates best management
practices (BMPs) to minimize water quality impacts.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.128  ROAD CONSTRUCTION.
   Where possible, roads should be located outside of watershed buffer areas;
roads constructed within these areas should be designed and constructed so as
to minimize their impact on water quality.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.129  RECORDINGS OF PLAT.
   No subdivision plat of land within the public water supply watershed shall
be filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Likewise, the Clerk of
Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording of such plat would be in conflict with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.130  CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   The certificate of approval for recording by Planning Board, §
155.038(G)(4), shall be modified to include prominently one or the other
statements:
 
Notice: This property is located within a public water supply watershed -
development, restrictions may apply.
 
or
 
Notice: This property is not located within a public water supply watershed.
 
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.131  RESIDENTIAL LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance with the
residential and/or nonresidential development standards contained in §§
156.110 through
156.122 of the town zoning regulations.
   (B)   Nonresidential lots which are smaller than the minimum required for
residential lots shall be identified on the plat as, “Not for Residential
Purposes.”
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.132  LOT LINES PROBLEM.
   Any area of a lot within the right-of-way of a street or road shall be
excluded in determining compliance with the minimum requirements of this
chapter. In the event a right-of-way is not defined among the public records,
the lot line shall be located 15 feet from the edge of the wear surface of the
street or road.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.133  RECORDING WITH REGISTER OF DEEDS.
   The Administrator shall file the approved plat with the Register of Deeds
for recording within 30 working days of approval.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.145  GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, no subdivision plat of land
within the town’s jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it has been
submitted to and approved by the Planning Board or Enforcement Officer as
designated in §§
155.035 through
155.038 and
155.050 through
155.055.
   (B)   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision
of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town that has not
been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the Clerk of
Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the recording would
be in conflict with this section.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.146  EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-374, the approval of a plat does not constitute or
effect the acceptance by the town or the public of the dedication of any street
or other ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat
and shall not be construed to do so.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.147  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar to
the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Planning Board may authorize a variance to the terms
of this chapter.
   (B)   This variance shall not violate the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.148  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Board may from time to time amend the terms of this chapter.
However, no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed
by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 30 days from the time the
proposed amendment is submitted within which to submit its report. If the
Planning Board fails to submit a report within a specified time, it shall be
deemed to have recommended approval of the amendment.
   (B)   The governing body shall adopt no amendment until they have held a
public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once a week for two
successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing. The initial notice shall appear
not more than 25 nor less than ten days prior to the hearing date. In computing
the ten-day period, the date of publication is not to be counted, but the date
of the hearing is to be counted.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.149  ABROGATION.
   (A)   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair
or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law.
   (B)   However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.150  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after January 4,
2000.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from the penalty. The town, through its Attorney or
other official designated by the Town Board, may enjoin the illegal
subdivision, transfer or sale of land by action for injunction. Further,
violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction, to a fine and/or
imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $1,000 to be recovered by the
town. Each penalty must be paid within ten days. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the civil penalty, this chapter may be enforced by
appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the use of
remedies available to the town. The town may seek to enforce this chapter by
using any one, all or a combination of remedies.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2000)
CHAPTER 156:  ZONING
Section
Authority, Purpose and Jurisdiction
   
156.001   Authority
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Jurisdiction
General Provisions
   
156.015   Interpretations of commonly used terms and words
   
156.016   Definitions of specific terms and words
District Boundaries and Map
   
156.030   Use districts
   
156.031   Interpretation of boundaries
   
156.032   General uses
   
156.033   Permitted in all districts
Signage
   
156.045   Purpose and scope
   
156.046   Applicability
   
156.047   Signage; general provisions
   
156.048   Sign placement
   
156.049   Permanent signs by zoning district
   
156.050   Sign height
   
156.051   Number of signs permitted
   
156.052   Sign area by zoning district
   
156.053   Permanent signs limited
   
156.054   Temporary signs limited
   
156.055   Prohibited signs
   
156.056   Enforcement of sign regulations
Off-Street Parking and Storage
   
156.070   Generally
   
156.071   Certificate of minimum parking requirements
   
156.072   Combination of required parking space
   
156.073   Remote parking space
   
156.074   Requirements for parking lots in residential districts
   
156.075   Minimum parking requirements
   
156.076   Off-street loading and unloading space
Buffering and Screening Requirements
   
156.090   Generally
   
156.091   Applicability
   
156.092   Conditions on planting and screening; tree and shrub size
requirements
   
156.093   Front landscaped area
   
156.094   Buffer area
   
156.095   Landscaped parking areas
   
156.096   Screening of outdoor storage area
   
156.097   Screening of mechanical equipment
   
156.098   Central solid waste storage area
   
156.099   Unoccupied lot areas
   
156.100   Storage containers
   
156.101   Accessory uses and structures
District Provisions
   
156.110   Residential Agriculture District (RA)
   
156.111   Low Density Residential District (R-20)
   
156.112   Medium Density Residential District (R-8)
   
156.113   Mobile Home Residential District–Extraterritorial (R-7 MHE)
   
156.114   High Density Residential District (R-6)
   
156.115   Mobile Home Residential District (R-6 MH)
   
156.116   Neighborhood Business District (NB-1)
   
156.117   Neighborhood Business District (NB-2)
   
156.118   Downtown Business District (B-1)
   
156.119   Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
156.120   Medium Density Residential District (Overlay) (R-8(O))
   
156.121   Special uses
   
156.122   Dimensional requirements table
   
156.123   Permitted use table
Mobile Home Parks
   
156.135   Generally
   
156.136   Definitions
   
156.137   Compliance with regulations
   
156.138   Approval process
   
156.139   Revocation of approval
   
156.140   Expiration
   
156.141   Development plan
   
156.142   Specifications for mobile home parks
   
156.143   Utilities required
   
156.144   Facilities required
Board of Adjustment
   
156.155   Creation
   
156.156   Membership
   
156.157   Appeal procedure
   
156.158   Decisions
   
156.159   Conditional uses
   
156.160   Variances
Amendments
   
156.175   Amendments; motion to amend
   
156.176   Petition for amendment
   
156.177   Planning Board review and finding
   
156.178   Public hearing
   
156.179   Protest against amendment
   
156.180   Denial of petition
   
156.181   Action by Board of Commissioners
Duplex and Multi-Family Dwellings
   
156.195   Intent
   
156.196   Conditional use permits
   
156.197   Submittal requirements
   
156.198   Development requirements
Conservation Subdivisions
   
156.210   Conservation subdivisions
   
156.211   Procedures for review and approval
Exceptions and Modifications
   
156.225   Lot of record
   
156.226   Front yard for dwelling
   
156.227   Height limitations
Nonconforming Uses
   
156.240   New uses or construction
   
156.241   Conforming uses
   
156.242   Continuation of nonconforming uses
Administrative Procedures
   
156.255   Duties of the Administrator, Board of Adjustment, Town Board and
courts as to enforcement and matters of appeal
   
156.256   Administrator
   
156.257   Zoning permit required
   
156.258   Zoning permit application procedure
   
156.259   Certificate of compliance
Legal Provisions
   
156.270   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
   
156.271   Validity
   
156.272   Effective date
 
   
156.999   Penalty
AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION
§ 156.001  AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted under the authority granted by
the General Assembly of the state, particularly G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.002  PURPOSE.
   The regulations and provisions set forth in this chapter have been made in
accordance with a comprehensive plan and are designed to: lessen congestion in
the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote
health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to
facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation, sewerage, schools, parks
and other public requirements; to conserve the value of buildings; and
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the planning area. The
regulations contained herein have been made with reasonable consideration,
among other things, as to the character of the various districts and their
suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of
structures and encouraging the most appropriate uses of the land within the
town.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.003  JURISDICTION.
   The regulations and provisions found in this chapter shall apply to all the
properties within the corporate limits of the town and within the territory
beyond such corporate limits as now or hereafter fixed, for a distance of
approximately one mile in all directions, as established by an ordinance and
map adopted on July 15, 1986 by the Town Board of Commissioners in accordance
with G.S. § 160A-360.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.015  INTERPRETATIONS OF COMMONLY USED TERMS AND WORDS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used
in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the
singular.
   (B)   The word “Town” shall mean the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
   (C)   The words “Board of Commissioners” shall mean the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
   (D)   The words “Planning Board” shall mean the Planning Board of the Town
of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
   (E)   The words “Board of Adjustment” or “Board” shall mean the Zoning Board
of Adjustment of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
   (F)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (G)   The word “shall” is mandatory.
   (H)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel.”
   (I)   The word “structure” includes the word “building.”
   (J)   The words “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the meaning “intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied.”
   (K)   The words “person” or “applicant” include a firm, association,
organization, partnership, corporation, company, trust, individual or
government unit.
   (L)   The word “street” includes the words “road” or “highway.”
   (M)   The words “regulations” or “zoning regulations” shall mean the zoning
ordinance of the Town of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.
   (N)   The words “zoning map” shall mean “the official zoning map of the Town
of Walnut Cove, North Carolina.”
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.016  DEFINITIONS OF SPECIFIC TERMS AND WORDS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal use or structure and located on the same lot with
such principal use or structure.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.  Any principal or accessory structure or use of land
which meets the definition of adult establishment as set forth in G.S. §§ 14-
202.10 et seq., but excluding license massage therapy.
   ALLEY. A public way which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property and which is not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Includes the following:
      (1)   Any addition to the height or depth of a building or structure;
      (2)   Any change in the location of any of the exterior walls of a
building or structure; and
      (3)   Any increase in the interior accommodations of a building or
structure.
   APARTMENT. A part of a building consisting of a room or rooms intended,
designed or used as a residence by an individual or single family.
   APARTMENT, GARAGE. A part of a garage consisting of a room or rooms
intended, designed or used as a residence by an individual or single family.
   APPRAISED VALUE. The market value, which has been last determined by the
county in which the property is for ad valorem tax purposes.
   BARBER SHOP/BEAUTY SHOP.  Intensive land uses that use chemicals to treat
and dye hair.  They need to meet all requirements set forth by N.C. Board of
Barbers and G.S. Chapter 86A.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A dwelling unit or part thereof where the owner or
operator shares a common facility, for profit, with individuals, on a temporary
basis. Unlike a boarding house, individuals stay for a night or two rather than
for weeks or months. This is a dwelling unit, not a commercial establishment
such as a motel or hotel.
   BUFFER STRIP. A planting strip at least ten feet in width; composed of
evergreen trees or shrubs which at maturity shall be not less than 12 feet in
height. The BUFFER STRIP shall be planted and maintained in a healthy growing
condition by the property owner who, under the terms of this chapter, is
required to provide the BUFFER STRIP. A fence with a minimum height of six
feet, designed to obstruct the view, may be required in some instances. No
building or part of a building, no driveway or parking area, shall occupy any
part of the buffer strip.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two BUILDINGS by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other such structure, with or without a roof, shall not be deemed to
make them one BUILDING.
   BUILDING, (CUSTOMARY) ACCESSORY. A building located on the same lot with a
principal building, subordinate to the principal building on the lot, and used
for purposes clearly incidental to those of the principal building on the lot.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The total length in linear feet of an establishment’s
portion of a building that fronts directly on a street, regardless of whether
such portion of the building is functionally the front, rear, end or side of
the building. Buildings without street frontage shall use the linear frontage
of the building’s principal entrance. This definition shall apply to all sides
of a building that fronts a street, road or highway.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The distance from the highest ground level at the
foundation of the building to the highest point of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line fixed parallel to a lot line beyond which a building
cannot extend under the terms of this chapter. Included are front, side and
rear BUILDING LINES.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building, excluding the outermost three feet
of any uncovered porches, steps, eaves, gutters and similar fixtures and the
centerline of any street when measured perpendicularly thereto.
   CABINETMAKER. A maker of cabinets and other furniture or a skilled
woodworker who makes fine furniture.
   CANOPY. A structure either detached from or attached to and extending from
the enclosed portion of a building, and used principally to provide shelter in
connection with activities conducted in the principal building. This definition
includes, but is not limited to, fuel station, bank and pharmacy CANOPIES.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE. A statement, signed by the Ordinance
Administrator, stating that the plans for a building, structure or use of land
complies with the zoning regulations of the town, the County Environmental
Health Department and the State Department of Human Resources, Division of
Health Services.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY.  Any child care arrangement wherein three or more
children less than 13 years old receive care away from their own home by
persons other than their parents, relatives, guardians or full-time custodians,
or in the child’s own home where other unrelated children are in care, come
under the state definition of child day care. Child day care does not include
seasonal recreational programs operated for less than four consecutive months.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY A.  Up to five children in full-time day care and three
after school children. The operator must live at the location of operation or
the facility must meet the requirements of the North Carolina Residential State
Building Code.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY B.  Facility for six to 12 children. The operator must
live at the location of operation or the facility must meet the requirements of
the North Carolina Residential State Building Code.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY C.  Facility for 13 or more children which must meet
either educational or institutional occupancy requirements of the North
Carolina Commercial State Building Code.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is permitted in specified zoning districts only
after review by the Board of Adjustment and found to meet specific conditions
and procedures as are now or hereafter set forth in this chapter so as to
maintain the safety and general welfare of the community. Such uses shall be
permitted only upon the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Board of
Adjustment.
   CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit owned as a single-family home within a
multiple-unit property together with an undivided portion of ownership in areas
and facilities held in common with other property owners in the development.
CONDOMINIUMS may take a number of forms of residential structures. The common
areas and structures may include underlying land, parking areas, recreation
facilities, swimming pools and in the case of an apartment house, hallways,
basements, heating units and elevators.
   DAY NURSERIES and KINDERGARTENS. A use of land and buildings to provide
group care for children.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the town and its zoning jurisdiction within which
regulations are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed for living and/
or sleeping purposes, excluding motels, hotels, rooming or boarding houses,
tourist homes or other structures designed for transient residence. The minimum
square footage for a dwelling shall be 840 square feet of living space (heated
space).
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three or more families living independently of each other. The minimum square
footage for each dwelling unit shall be 840 square feet of living space (heated
space).
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family. The minimum square footage for a dwelling shall be 840 square feet
of living space (heated space).
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE.  A residential structure with at least three units in a
row, each with their own rear and front entrance to the outside and each with
separate lots of record. No unit shall be located over another unit and each
unit is separated from any other unit by one or more, common fire resistant
walls. Such units may be owner-occupied, rental properties or under condominium
ownership. A townhouse dwelling is considered a multi-family dwelling.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other. The minimum square footage per
dwelling unit shall be 840 square feet of living space (heated space).
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family. The minimum square footage per
dwelling unit shall be 840 square feet of living space (heated space).
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall
contain over five persons.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in water levels or an accumulation of water runoff
resulting in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of a floodplain, which is outside of the floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land susceptible to inundation by water from any source
including, at a minimum, that area subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any given year.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the stream and those portions of the adjoining
floodplain, which carry and discharge waters of a particular flood event.
   FRONTAGE. The distance between the two side lot lines as measured along the
front setback line.
   GROSS RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The number of dwelling units to be built divided
by the area of the tract being developed.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY. An establishment qualified for a license by the state
to provide resident services to individuals of whom one or more are unrelated.
Such individuals are handicapped, aged and/or disabled; are undergoing
rehabilitation or extended care; and are provided services to meet their needs
by the GROUP CARE FACILITY. GROUP CARE FACILITIES include group homes for all
ages, halfway houses, and foster and boarding homes.
   GROUP DEVELOPMENT. A group of two or more principal structures built on a
single lot, tract or parcel of land not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots and which will not be so subdivided, and designed for occupancy by
separate families, businesses or other enterprises. Examples would be cluster-
type subdivisions, row houses, apartment courts, housing projects, school and
hospital campuses, shopping centers and industrial parks.
   HAIRDRESSER.  Less intensive land uses that do not use any chemicals. They
do not need certification from any accreditation board and mainly focus on the
styling of hair instead of the treating and dying of hair.
   HOME OCCUPATION, CUSTOMARY INCIDENTAL. An occupation conducted entirely
within a dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, provided that:
      (1)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential
purposes, and such occupation shall be carried on solely within the main
dwelling, and shall not occupy more than 25% of the total floor space of the
dwelling;
      (2)   There shall be no display, no outside storage, no change in the
outside appearance of the building or premises, or other visible evidence of
the conduct of such home occupation other than the signs permitted in each
district;
      (3)   No more than two persons not in residence on the premises shall be
employed in connection with the home occupation;
      (4)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard;
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot; and
      (6)   In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process
shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or
television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line voltage
off the premises.
   INERT DEBRIS.  Solid waste that consists solely of material that is
virtually inert and that is likely to retain its physical and chemical
structure under expected conditions of disposal.
   JUNKYARD. The use of 600 or more square feet of any lot or tract for the
outdoor storage and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap, metal or other such
materials, including storage or dismantling of motor vehicles or machinery.
   LAND CLEARING DEBRIS.  Solid waste that is generated solely from land-
clearing activities.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot, which occupies the interior angle at the intersection of
two street lines. The street line forming the east frontage shall be deemed the
front of the lot except where the two street lines front equally, in which case
the owner shall be required to specify the front of the lot when requesting a
zoning compliance permit.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The average distance between front and rear lot lines.
   LOT LINE. A line dividing one parcel of property from another parcel of
property or from a street right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The street right-of-way boundary at the front of the lot,
that is, the line which separates the lot from the street at the front of the
lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The line of a lot, which is opposite and farthest from the
front lot line. Where a lot abuts a street along the rear of the lot, the REAR
LOT LINE shall be deemed to coincide with the street right-of-way boundary.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line, which meets an end of a front lot line. Where
a lot abuts a street along the side of the lot, the SIDE LOT LINE shall be
deemed to coincide with the street right-of-way boundary.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot for which a plat has been recorded in the Register of
Deeds of the county, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of
which has been so recorded.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front
building line.
   MANUFACTURED BUILDING. A building mass-produced in a factory either
independently or as a module for combination with other elements to form a
building on site, and designed and constructed for transportation to a site for
installation and use when connected to required facilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that:
      (1)   Is not constructed in accordance with the standards of the State
Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings;
      (2)   Is composed of one or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the home site on its own chassis; and
      (3)   Exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A (DOUBLEWIDE OR TRIPLEWIDE). A manufactured home
constructed after July 1,1976, that meets or exceeds the construction standards
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies the
following additional criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width with a minimum square footage of 840 square feet of living space (heated
space);
      (2)   The pitch of the manufactured home’s roof has a minimum vertical
rise of two and two- tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and the
roof is finished with shingles;
      (3)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of not less
than six inches, which must include a gutter;
      (4)   The exterior siding consists of predominantly vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint), wood or hardwood;
      (5)   A continuous, permanent masonry curtain wall or foundation,
unpierced except for ventilation and access, is installed under the
manufactured home and no electrical power will be issued until underpinning is
installed; and
      (6)   The tongue, axles, removable towing apparatus and transporting
lights are removed after final placement on the site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME CLASS B (SINGLEWIDE). A manufactured home constructed
after July 1, 1976, that meets or exceeds the construction standards
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies the
following additional criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding six times its
width with a minimum square footage of 840 square feet of living space (heated
space);
      (2)   The pitch of the manufactured home’s roof has a minimum vertical
rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and the roof is finished
with shingles;
      (3)   All roof structures shall have standard guttering of no less than
five inches and no electrical power will be issued until guttering is
installed;
      (4)   The exterior siding consists of predominantly vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint), wood or hardwood;
      (5)   A continuous, permanent masonry curtain wall or foundation,
unpierced except for ventilation and access, is installed under the
manufactured home and no electrical power will be issued until underpinning is
installed; and
      (6)   The tongue, axles, removable towing apparatus and transporting
lights are removed after final placement on the site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME CLASS C. A manufactured home that does not meet the
definition of either a Class A or a Class B manufactured home (manufactured
home constructed prior to July 1,1976).
   MANUFACTURING OR PROCESSING, A.  A manufacturing establishment primarily
engaged in the fabrication or assembly of products from pre-structured
materials or components. Because of the nature of its operations and products,
Manufacturing A produces little or no noise, odor, vibration, glare and/or air
and water pollution, and, therefore, has minimal impact on surrounding
properties. Such facilities when abutting residential districts or properties
shall be set back at least ten feet from all boundaries lines. Dimensional
requirements shall be measured using the innermost boundary of the buffer
strip, as the reference line.
   MANUFACTURING OR PROCESSING, B.  A manufacturing establishment primarily
engaged in the manufacture of foodstuffs, textiles, electrical components or
tobacco of the nature of its operations and products, Manufacturing B could
impact immediately adjoining properties due to noise, odor, vibration, glare,
and/or air and water pollution. Such facilities when abutting residential
districts or properties shall be set back at least 15 feet from all boundaries
lines. Dimensional requirements shall be measured using the innermost boundary
of the buffer strip as the reference line.
   MANUFACTURING OR PROCESSING, C.  A manufacturing establishment primarily
engaged in the processing and manufacturing of materials or products not
otherwise classified under Manufacturing A, Manufacturing B or other use
defined in this section. Manufacturing C includes the processing and
manufacturing of products from extracted or raw materials, the assembly of
large or heavy machinery and the storing or using of flammable, explosive,
hazardous or toxic materials in the manufacturing processes. Because of the
nature of its operations and products, Manufacturing C may impact surrounding
properties due to noise, odor, vibration, glare and/or air and water pollution
.Such facilities when abutting residential districts or properties shall be set
back at least 25 feet from all boundaries lines. Dimensional requirements shall
be measured using the innermost boundary of the buffer strip as the reference
line.
   METAL FABRICATION PLANT. A large-scale (greater than 3,001 square feet)
facility, which is engaged in the shaping of metal and similar materials.
   METAL FABRICATION SHOP. A small-scale (1,000 to 1,100 square feet) facility,
which is engaged in the shaping of metal and similar materials.
   MOBILE BUILDING. A manufactured building constructed on a chassis and used
for nonresidential purposes. A MOBILE BUILDING shall be construed to remain a
mobile building subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether or not
wheels, axles, hitches or other appurtenances of mobility are removed, and
regardless of the nature of the foundation provided.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land under single ownership, which,
has been developed for the placement of manufactured homes for non-transient
use. Excluded from this definition are manufactured home sales lots on which
unoccupied manufactured homes are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   MOBILE HOME SITE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for
the accommodation and use of one trailer or manufactured home and containing
all improvements and utility connections required under this chapter as well as
all other applicable regulations.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended primarily for
sale of lots for residential occupancy by mobile homes.
   MOBILE UNIT DOUBLEWIDE. For the purposes of this chapter, a DOUBLEWIDE
MOBILE UNIT shall include only mobile buildings. A DOUBLEWIDE MOBILE UNIT
consists of two or more separate mobile buildings, which are designed to be
connected on a site to form a single structure for one or more nonresidential
uses. The exterior dimensions of the DOUBLEWIDE MOBILE UNIT when assembled for
use shall be not less than 32 feet by 24 feet. Such a unit shall be placed on a
permanent, enclosed foundation with the wheels and pulling tongue removed.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the
construction standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code
for One- and Two-Family Dwellings and composed of components substantially
assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for
final assembly and placement on a permanent foundation. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, a MODULAR HOME may consist of two or more sections
transported to the site on its own chassis or steel frame, or a series of
panels or room sections transported to the site on a truck and erected,
assembled or joined there. The dimensions of the MODULAR HOME when assembled
for use shall be not less than 840 square feet of living (heated) space.
   NONCONFORMITY or NONCONFORMING USE. Any parcel of land, use of land,
building or structure, existing at the time of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, that does not conform to the requirements use or dimensions of the
district in which it is located.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, fence, shrub, bush, tree, flower, plant, motor
vehicle or any other object that obscures, impairs or prevents view or sight
through, over or across the horizontal or vertical distance area as herein
defined.
   OPEN SPACE. Unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
   OPEN STORAGE. An unroofed area for the storage of non-bulk materials with
approved fencing or other requirements as deemed appropriate by the Board but
not including seasonal items or materials openly displayed for the purpose of
retail sale and/or rental.
   OPERATING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator of mobile home
park owner or operator upon the completion of a mobile home park which conforms
to the requirements of this chapter.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE AREA. Any area which contains trash collection areas or
dumpsters, open air docks, outdoor storage of bulk materials and/or parts, or
areas regularly used for outdoor repair areas or service stations, but
excluding temporary construction and related activities and closed bay docks
with approved fencing or other requirements as deemed appropriate by the Board.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than 200 square feet exclusive of
necessary access and maneuvering space. PARKING SPACE(S) shall be provided with
vehicular access to a street or alley, shall not be provided in a required
front yard area, and shall always be located outside the dedicated street
right-of-way.
   PARKS. Includes those areas developed for both passive and active
recreational activities. The development shall include, but shall not be
limited to, walkways, benches, open fields, multi-use courts, swimming and
wading pools, amphitheaters and the like. The term PARK shall also include
those areas associated with history, tradition or cultural heritage of
national, state or local interest. The term PARK shall not include zoos,
travel-trailer parks, amusement parks and so on.
   PRODUCE PROCESSING AND RETAILING.  More intensive land uses that sell
produce and grocery products and have machinery that cans or processes the
products on-site.
   PRODUCE STANDS.  More intensive land uses that sell produce and grocery
products and have machinery that cans or processes the products on-site.
   PUBLIC OPERATIONS FACILITIES.  Such facilities and operations which are
essential to the continued well-being and service of the community including,
fire, police, rescue squad, public works and other services deemed necessary by
the Board of Adjustments and approved by the Board of Commissioners, provided
that, all vehicles and equipment shall be stored indoors, that all buildings
and equipment shall be designed and landscaped in such a way as to blend in
with the surrounding area, and is built at least 25 feet from all abutting
residential property lines.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling units
and approved by the County Division of the District Health Department of the
State Department of Water and Air Resources.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to ten or
more residences or businesses or combination of businesses or residences.
Approval by the Division of Health Services, Department of Human Resources is
required.
   RACEWAY. Sometimes referred to as a raceway system, is an enclosed conduit
that forms a physical pathway for electrical wiring. RACEWAYS protect wires and
cables from heat, humidity, corrosion, water intrusion and general physical
threats.
   RECREATION FACILITIES.  Public or private, indoor or outdoor facilities
which cater to the recreational demand of individuals and groups who do not
reside on the same lot where the facilities are located. Such accessory uses as
snack bars, locker rooms and other uses which are designed and intended
primarily for the use of patrons of the principal recreational use are allowed
on the same lot or contiguous premises as the primary use to which it is
accessory.
   RESTAURANT, A.  Establishments which serve, deliver or prepare food and/or
beverages to customers seated at tables or counters located within the building
or designed outdoor seating areas or to person in motor vehicles, for
consumption either on or off the premises. Such facilities with or without
drive thru when abutting residential zones or properties must be separated with
a fence on all sides which abut such properties/zones that is at least one inch
from the ground extending a minimum of six feet in height.
   RESTAURANT, B.  Establishment which may be considered adult establishment
under G.S. §§ 14-202.10 et seq. and/or establishments which serve, deliver, or
prepare food and/or beverages including alcohol to customers seated at tables
or counters located within the building or designed outdoor seating areas or to
a person in motor vehicles, for consumption either on or off the premises. Such
facilities with or without drive-thru when abutting residential zones or
properties must be separated with a fence on all sides which abut such
properties/zones that is at least one inch from the ground extending a minimum
of six feet in height.
   RETAIL BUSINESS, GENERAL. An establishment selling commodities and/or
providing services directly to the consumer.
   RETAIL BUSINESS, LARGE.  A single retail or wholesale use which occupies no
less than 20,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires high
parking to building area ratios and has a regional sales market. Such stores
include are not limited to membership warehouse clubs that emphasize bulk
sales, discount stores and department stores. Such facilities may also provide
services which are incidental to the primary use.
   RETAIL BUSINESS, MEDIUM.  A single retail or wholesale use which occupies
between 5,000 and 20,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires
moderate parking to building area ratios and has a local sales market. Such
facilities may provide services incidental to the primary use.
   RETAIL BUSINESS, SMALL.  A single retail or wholesale use occupying less
than 5,000 square feet of gross floor area. Typically requires low parking to
building area ratios and has a local or neighborhood sales market. Such
facilities may also provide services which are incidental to the primary use.
   ROOFLINE. The highest point of the main roof structure, which shall not
include cupolas, pylons, projections or minor raised portions of the roof.
   SERVICE BUSINESS, A.  An establishment primarily engaged in providing
service(s) to businesses and individuals. All merchandise and rental equipment
is stored inside an enclosed building. Such services shall be self-serviced or
fully/partially served.
   SERVICE BUSINESS, B.  An establishment primarily engaged in providing
service(s) to commercial and business establishments. Operations may include
large scale facilities may be self-serviced or fully/partially serviced.
   SERVICE STATION. Any building or land used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale of any automobile fuels, lubricants or tires, except that
indoor car washing, minor motor adjustment and tire repair may be performed
only incidentally to the conduct of the facility.
   SETBACK. The required distance between any structure and the applicable lot
line(s) (front, side or rear) of the lot on which the structure is located.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Two or more commercial establishments planned and
constructed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities
provided on the property and related in location, size and type of shops to the
trade area with the unit serves.
   SIGHT EASEMENT TRIANGLES. An area located on private property abutting or
adjacent to the intersection of two or more streets, roads, highways or
driveways (whether such street, road, highway or driveway is public or private)
and consisting of the following determined area: beginning at a point marking
the intersection and extending ten feet perpendicular to the accessing street
right-of-way then tapering to 70 feet along the street right-of-way. The intent
of this easement area is to prohibit structures or signs from blocking the view
of motorists entering or exiting the property.
   SIGN. Any form of publicity/advertisement visible from a public street/road/
highway, directing attention to an individual, business, commodity, service,
activity or product, by means of words, lettering, parts of letters, figures,
numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, objects, designs, trade names
or trademarks, or other pictorial matter designed to convey information, and
displayed by means of paint, bills, posters, panels or other devices erected on
an open framework, or attached or otherwise applied to stakes, posts, poles,
trees, buildings or other structures/supports. Notwithstanding the above, the
following are also considered SIGNS: beacons; spotlights; searchlights; and
reflectors.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign which flashes, revolves, rotates or swings by
mechanical means or which uses a change of lighting to depict action or to
create a special effect or scene.
   SIGN AREA. The area of a sign face.
   SIGN, AWNING (ON-PREMISES). On-premises attached sign displayed, attached to
or incorporated into the surface of an architectural projection or shelter
projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building and composed
of a covering of non-rigid materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework
that may be either permanent or retractable.
   SIGN, BANNER. A sign intended to be hung either with or without a frame,
possessing characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentation applied to
plastic or fabric of any kind, excluding flags and emblems of political,
professional, religious, educational or corporate organizations.
   SIGN, BEACON. Any sign with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere
or directed at one or more points not on the same zoning lot as the light
source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A type of off-premises sign, generally, but not always
consisting of a rigidly assembled sign, display or device, that is affixed to
the ground or to a building, the primary purpose of which is to display
advertising posters.
   SIGN, CAMPAIGN OR ELECTION. A sign that advertises a candidate or issue to
be voted upon on a definite election day.
   SIGN, CANOPY (AWNING). Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning,
canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door,
entrance, window or outdoor service area, excluding a marquee. See SIGN,
MARQUEE.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the remaining
face or the surface of the sign.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign placed at a construction site identifying or
announcing the project or the name of the architect, engineer, contractor,
financier or others involved in the development of the project.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT. A temporary sign allowed for a limited
period of time that identifies a development under construction as well as
design, construction and marketing information for a development.
   SIGN COPY. Any words, letters, numbers, figures, characters, symbols, logos
or insignia that are used on a sign face.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL OR INSTRUCTIONAL. An on-premises sign designed to guide
vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic by using such words as “Entrance,” “Exit,”
“Parking,” “One-Way,” “Warning,” “No Trespassing” or similar direction or
instruction, but not including any advertising message. The name or logo of the
business or use to which the sign is direction may also be included on the
sign.
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. A sign other than an identification sign, listing the
names, uses or locations of the various businesses or activities conducted
within a building or group of buildings that is centrally located and intended
to provide direction.
   SIGN, ELECTION. Any sign that advertises a candidate or an issue to be voted
on in a local, state or federal election process.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE. A sign, or portion of a sign, that displays an
electronic image and/or video, which may or may not include text. Such signs
include any sign, or portion of a sign, that uses changing lights to form a
sign message or messages or uses electronic means to change the sign message.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARDS include, but are not limited to, signs also known as
electronic reader boards, electronic message center signs, tri-panel message
systems and commercial electronic-variable message signs (CEVMS).
   SIGN, EMERGENCY, SAFETY, WARNING OR TRAFFIC. Any emergency, safety, warning
or traffic sign installed by or at the direction of a governmental authority or
with its approval.
   SIGN, EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. A sign that features artificial illumination
from a light source providing light directly onto the sign face, or portions of
the sign face, or background, with the light reflected back to the viewer.
   SIGN, FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or
other entity.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A sign that uses an intermittent or flashing light source to
attract attention.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on or anchored in the ground and that are independent from any building
or other structure.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained for
any governmental purposes.
   SIGN, GROUND MOUNTED. A sign which extends from the ground or which has a
support which places the bottom thereof less than three feet from the ground.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the
top of the highest attached component of the sign, as detailed in §
156.047(G).
   SIGN, HISTORIC. A sign or reproduction of a sign, originally installed 25 or
more years ago.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign which displays only the name, address and/or
crest, insignia, trademark, occupation or profession of an occupant, or the
name of any building on the premises.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A temporary or permanent on-premises sign intended to
provide information or direction for the convenience and/or necessity of the
public with a purpose secondary to the use of the lot where said sign is
located. Such signs include, but are not limited to, entrance and exit signs,
building numbers, addresses, private parking signs, telephone, no trespassing
signs or dangerous animal signs. INCIDENTAL SIGNS are not intended to provide
identification or advertising from any public way.
   SIGN, INFORMATION, DIRECTION AND IDENTIFICATION. A sign installed by or at
the direction of a governmental authority or with the governmental authority’s
approval providing information and/or direction and/or identification. Said
sign shall not contain any commercial content other than a symbol, name or logo
of the establishment it serves.
   SIGN, INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. A sign featuring artificial illumination from
a light source behind the sign face transmitting light through the sign face or
portions of the sign face to the viewer; also known as backlit illumination.
Exposed neon tubing and similar lighting shall not be considered an INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED SIGN.
   SIGN, LEAD-IN (DIRECTIONAL). An off-premises sign that solely provides
directional information regarding the sale or lease of residential property.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign attached to, in any manner, a marquee. For the
purposes of this definition, a MARQUEE is defined as a permanent roof-like
structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond
the wall of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide
protection from the weather.
   SIGN, MEMORIAL OR PLAQUE. A sign designating the name of a building and/or
date or erection and other items such as architect, contractor or others
involved in the building’s creation, cut into or attached to a building’s
surface.
   SIGN, MENU BOARD. A sign displaying the bill of fare of a drive-in or drive-
through restaurant.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A freestanding sign supported primarily by an internal
structural framework or integrated into landscaping or solid structural
features other than support poles where the base of the sign is on the ground
or no more than 12 inches above the adjacent grade.
   SIGN, NEON. An illuminated sign containing a glass tube filled with neon or
phosphorus which are bent to form letters, symbols or other shapes.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity
or service, conducted, sold or offered at a location other than on the premises
on which the sign is erected.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity or
service, that is conducted, sold or offered on the premises on which the sign
is erected.
   SIGN, PANEL CHANGE OUT. Removing and/or replacing the advertising or copy
area panel(s) of a sign without replacing or modifying the sign structure.
   SIGN, PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   SIGN, PERMANENT BANNER. Any banner constructed of lightweight fabric or
similar material that is permanently mounted to a building by a permanent
frame, excluding flags.
   SIGN, PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A sign that directs attention to businesses,
commodities or services on a tract of land developed under single ownership or
unified control, which includes one or more principal buildings or uses.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A temporary sign used in connection with a local, state or
national election or referendum.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to: signs converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs;
balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to
or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign that is affixed to a building or wall in such a
manner that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of
such building or wall.
   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential
uses.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected and constructed wholly or partially on or over
the roof or parapet of a building.
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A single- or double-faced moveable sign intended to be
used on a sidewalk or pedestrian way in front of the business for which the
commercial message is intended.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The frame supporting a freestanding sign, wall sign,
projecting sign, suspended sign, portable sign, marquee sign or roof sign, and
poles or supports used to elevate or support the frame.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign not permanently installed in the ground, nor
permanently affixed to any structure or building.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to a wall, painted on the wall surface, or
erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any building or
structure, and which is supported by such wall.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service that is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass and is
visible from the exterior of the window.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A stable with a capacity of not more than one horse for
each 3,500 square feet of lot area whereon such stable is located and where
such horses are owned by the owners or occupants of the premises and are not
kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   STORAGE AND SALVAGE YARD. The use of land for outdoor storage of machinery,
construction equipment, construction supplies, used building materials, scrap
metal and similar items, motor vehicle dismantling operations or junkyards with
approved fencing or other requirements as deemed appropriate by the Board. This
definition does not include automobile dealerships, used car lots and motor
vehicle storage yards.
   STORAGE CONTAINER(S). Any standardized, reusable vessel, fully assembled,
designed without an axle or wheel, which was:
      (1)   Originally, specifically or formerly designed for or used in the
packing, shipping, movement or transportation of freight, articles, goods or
commodities;
      (2)   Designed for or capable of being mounted or moved on a rail car;
      (3)   Designed for or capable of being mounted on a chassis or bogie for
movement by truck trailer or loaded on a ship; and/or
      (4)   With dimensions not to exceed a height of eight feet six inches, a
width of eight feet and a length of 40 feet.
   STORAGE TRAILER. A structure originally constructed with wheels in order to
be transported over the highways but now no longer transported and now
converted to use as a storage structure. An uncoupled truck trailer and an
inoperable travel trailer meet this definition if used for storage of materials
for retail resale. An uncoupled truck trailer placed at a church, school,
government building or business for the acceptance of goods donated to charity
or dropped off for recycling and towed away on a regular schedule or whenever
full does not meet this definition. A construction trailer at a construction
site, uncoupled truck trailer, inoperable travel trailer and an uninhabitable
manufactured dwelling does not meet this definition.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare or right-of-way for vehicular traffic, which
affords a principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STREET LINE. The street right-of-way boundary, that is, the line, which
separates the street from the lot.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. The term STRUCTURE includes, but is not limited to,
buildings, fences, signs, sheds and towers.
   TEMPORARY USE - OTHER. A conditional use involving a storage trailer for
storage of merchandise for retail resale. It would be allowed only in the
Downtown Business District (B-1), Neighborhood Business District (NB-2) and
Light Industrial District (I-1). No more than four units would be permitted per
parcel. The units shall be allowed for a 12-month timeframe. Refrigerated units
are specifically not allowed for storage in any district. This use is
specifically prohibited for wholesale storage.
   TEMPORARY USE STRUCTURE. A nonresidential structure intended for temporary
offices, headquarters or storage of materials on the same lot or tract of land
being used or developed for a directly related permanent use. A TEMPORARY USE
STRUCTURE shall require a temporary certificate of zoning compliance from the
Zoning Administrator, which shall extend for a maximum period of one year, with
renewal extensions of six months.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A structure that is:
      (1)   Intended to be transported over the streets and highways (either as
a motor vehicle or attached to or hauled by a motor vehicle); and
      (2)   Is designed for temporary use as sleeping quarters, but that does
not meet the definition of a manufactured home.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. A parcel of land designed and equipped to accommodate
travel trailers and to serve as a campground.
   UPHOLSTERY SHOP. To upholster or to stuff and cover furniture, crafts and
the like.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a piece of land or its structures is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or structures on a lot, as
distinguished from an accessory use.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the zoning regulations which will not
be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to
the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of the regulations would result in an unnecessary and undue
hardship. A VARIANCE may be granted only by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   WOODWORKING. The act, process or occupation of working wood into a useful or
desired form.
   WORKSHOP, BACKYARD. A business maintained in a separate building in the rear
yard, provided that:
      (1)   The work shall be done entirely within the structured building;
      (2)   The square footage of the structure shall not exceed 1,000 square
feet;
      (3)   Night time operations that would normally fall under the auspices
of the town’s noise control ordinance shall cease operations at 10:00 p.m. and
not resume until 8:00 a.m. the next morning (except on Sundays when they may
resume at 1:00 p.m.); quieter operations are not bound by these time
constraints; and
      (4)   There shall be no display, no outside storage, no change in the
outside appearance of the building or premises, or other visible evidence of
the conduct of such backyard workshop other than the signs permitted in each
district.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building which is open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky
except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending the full width of the lot on which a principal
building is located and situated between the front lot line and a line parallel
thereto passing through the nearest point of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot on which a principal
building is located and situated between the rear lot line and a line parallel
thereto passing though the nearest point of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard on the same lot as a principal building situated between
the side lot line and a line parallel thereto passing through the nearest point
of the building, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An official of or person designated by the Town Board
of Commissioners charged with enforcing and administering the zoning
regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-1-1998; Ord. passed 7-5-
2005; Ord. passed 9-6-2005; Ord. passed 1-3-2006; Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-
2007; Ord. passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-9, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-10,
passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-11, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-12, passed 5-6-
2008; Ord. O-2008-13, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-14, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-
2008-15, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-16, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-17,
passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-18, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-19, passed 5-6-
2008; Ord. O-2008-20, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-21, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-
2008-22, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-31, passed 7-1-2008; Ord. O-2009-04,
passed 6-2-2009; Ord. O-2010-20, passed 11-4-2010; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND MAP
§ 156.030  USE DISTRICTS.
   In order to regulate and limit the height and size of building; to regulate
and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; to regulate and determine the
areas of open spaces surrounding buildings; and to control the location of
buildings designed for specified industrial, business, residential and other
uses, the town and its extraterritorial area are hereby divided into the
following use zones of which there shall be known as:
R-A     Residential-Agricultural District
R-20    Low Density Residential District
R-8     Medium Density Residential District
R-8(O)  Medium Density Residential District (Overlay)
R-7 MHE Mobile Home Residential District - Extraterritorial
R-6     High Density Residential District
R-6 MH  Mobile Home Residential District
NB-1    Neighborhood Business District
NB-2    Neighborhood Business District
B-l     Downtown Business District
I-1     Light Industrial District
 
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.031  INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries or districts as
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Delineation. District boundary lines are generally intended to be
along or parallel to property lines, lot lines, the centerline of streets,
alleys, railroad, easements, other rights-of-way and creeks, streams or other
water channels.
   (B)   Official zoning map. A zoning map entitled the “Official Zoning Map of
the Town of Walnut Cove, Stokes County, North Carolina” clearly setting forth
all approved use districts and their respective boundaries is hereby made a
part of this chapter and shall be maintained in the office of the Zoning
Administrator of the town. This map shall be available for inspection by
interested persons during normal business hours of the Zoning Administrator. It
shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator of the town to maintain said map
and post any changes thereto as they may be made.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.032  GENERAL USES.
   Within each district, certain general rules shall prevail.
   (A)   Intent of zoning districts. Each district is hereby established as an
exclusive zoning district and only those uses listed as permitted or
conditional uses are allowed. If a particular use of the land is not listed in
a certain district, that use shall be prohibited for that district, unless
added by amendment.
   (B)   Open space requirements. No part of a yard, court or other open space
provided around any building or structure for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall be included as a part of a yard or other open
space required under this chapter for another building or structure.
   (C)   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited. No yard or lot existing at
the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in size or area below the
minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the
effective date of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements
established by this chapter.
   (D)   Only one principal building permitted on one lot. No lot shall be
occupied by more than one principal building or use.
   (E)   Legal limitations; conflict with other laws. Wherever the regulations
made under authority of this chapter require a greater width or size of yards
or courts, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or
impose other higher standards than that required in any other statute or local
ordinance or regulation, the provisions of the regulations made under authority
of this chapter shall govern. Wherever the provisions of any other statute or
local ordinance or regulation require a greater width or size of yard or courts
or require a lower height of building or less number of stories or require a
greater percentage of lots to be left unoccupied, or impose other standards
than are required by the regulations made under authority of this chapter, the
provisions of such statute or local ordinance or regulation shall govern.
   (F)   Future construction. Except as herein provided, no building shall be
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land
be used which does not comply with all the zone regulations established by this
chapter for the zone in which the building or land is located.
   (G)   Street access. Every lot to be built upon shall abut a public street
or other public way. Every lot, upon which a mobile home is located, except
when within a mobile home park, shall abut a public street or other public way.
   (H)   Obstruction. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to allow an obstruction in the horizontal or vertical sight distance area. The
owner or tenant of any land on which an obstruction exists in violation of this
chapter shall remove it within 30 days after notification by the Zoning
Administrator. This provision shall apply in all residential corner lots
located in any zone at which the traffic is not controlled by a traffic control
light.
   (I)   Temporary use of mobile homes. Mobile homes shall be permitted as a
temporary use in any zone in which they are not normally permitted for a period
not exceeding six months. Such temporary use of mobile homes shall be for the
purpose of providing a residence for the owner of the lot upon which the mobile
home is located while either constructing a new house on the same lot or
repairing a house damaged by fire or an act of God. The permit may be renewed
by the Zoning Administrator, upon a finding of fact that additional time is
needed by the owner for completion of the project.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see §
156.999
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; special exceptions to the zoning regulations, see G.S.§
160A-388(d)
   Board of Adjustment; zoning; grant of power, see G.S. § 160A-381(b1)
§ 156.033  PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   Bulk trash containers are permitted in all districts under the following
conditions:
   (A)   Outside of residential districts, and when located on private
property, hours of operation shall conform to the respective businesses’ hours;
   (B)   Outside of residential districts, and when located on public property,
hours of operation shall conform to daylight hours;
   (C)   Outside of residential districts, and whether located on public or
private property, the container(s) shall be adequately screened and provided
with adequate means to ensure compliance with hours of operation; and
   (D)   Within a residential district and when located on private property,
24-hour operation is permitted.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
SIGNAGE
§ 156.045  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This subchapter is intended to regulate and control signs and their
placement throughout the town and its extraterritorial area for the following
purposes:
   (A)   To provide a pleasing overall environmental setting and good community
appearance, which is deemed vital to the continued economic attractiveness of
the town;
   (B)   To create a more productive, enterprising, professional business
atmosphere;
   (C)   To allow signs appropriate to the planned character and development of
each zoning district;
   (D)   To ensure that permitted signs do not become a hazard or nuisance;
   (E)   To promote traffic safety;
   (F)   To prevent business and advertising signs from conflicting with public
safety signs; and
   (G)   To protect and enhance the value of properties.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 156.046  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct, enlarge, modify, move or replace
any sign or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a zoning permit
for such sign from the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, changing or replacing the permanent copy on
an existing lawful sign shall not require a permit, provided the copy change
does not change the nature of the sign so as to render it in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.047  SIGNAGE; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs.
   (A)   Construction standards.
      (1)   All signs shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the State Building Code.
      (2)   All temporary signs shall be constructed of materials and printed
with inks capable of withstanding normal weather conditions.
      (3)   All signs, except for banners, flags, temporary signs and window
signs conforming in all respects with the requirements of this chapter shall be
constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the
ground, a building or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall,
frame or structure.
   (B)   Electrical standards. All illuminated signs shall be installed in
accordance with the applicable provisions of the State Electrical Code and all
detached signs shall be illuminated by an underground electrical source.
Underground electrical cable is required to be weather-sealed and meet national
electrical standards for burial depth.
   (C)   Maintenance of signs. All signs shall be maintained in good structural
and aesthetic condition. Deficiencies such as chipped paint, broken plastic,
missing letters and exposed light bulbs shall be evidence of a lack of
maintenance.
   (D)   Obstructions prohibited. No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct the
clear sight triangle at a street intersection nor shall any sign obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving an off-street parking area.
   (E)   Relation to other building elements.
      (1)   Signs shall relate in their placement and size to other building
elements without obscuring building elements such as windows, cornices or
decorative details, except that signs may be placed on the inside of windows.
      (2)   Sign material, style and color shall complement the building facade
in terms of design, scale, color and materials.
      (3)   Individual shop signs in a single storefront shall relate to each
other in terms of design, size, color, placement on the building and lettering
style.
      (4)   Signs placed on the inside of the window areas shall conceal no
more than 25% of the area of the window on which the signs are located.
   (F)   Sign lighting.
      (1)   Neon, argon and similar lighting fixtures shall not be used
anywhere on the exterior of a building; however, such signs if non-flashing and
non-moving may be mounted on the inside of store windows.
      (2)   Signs shall only be lighted with indirect light sources (e.g.,
backlighting); knockout signs are encouraged. Ground-mounted floodlights may
also be used if the light is directed only on the sign and not onto adjacent
properties or roadways and the light fixtures are fully shielded from view
through the use of landscaping.
      (3)   If channel letter signs are being used, they are required to be
mounted on a raceway and the electrical connection from the raceway to the
junction box on the inside of the wall shall be in a ridged conduit. The power
supply for channel letters should be run directly from the power supply to the
sign as a dedicated circuit.
   (G)   Sign height computation.
      (1)   Sign height shall be computed as the lower of:
         (a)   Existing grade prior to construction; or
         (b)   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the
sign.
      (2)   The calculation of the height of any sign placed upon a berm or
mound shall include the height of the berm or mound.
   (H)   Sign area computation. The area of a sign face (which is also the sign
area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face) shall be computed by
means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination
thereof, that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed, but not
including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall when
such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is clearly incidental
to the display itself. Stenciled window signs with lettering only and
transparent background may be measured as the total area of the smallest
rectangle(s) to encompass each word.
   (I)   Sign area computation for multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with multiple faces shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign
faces visible from any one point. When a sign is composed of two or more sign
faces, only one of which can be viewed from any one point, and when such sign
faces are part of the same structure, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
   (J)   Forfeiture of illegal signs placed on or over public property. Any
sign installed or placed on or over public property, except in conformance with
the requirements of this section, shall be forfeited to the public and be
subject to confiscation and disposal. In addition to other remedies provided by
this section and the town code of ordinances, the town shall have the right to
recover from the sign owner and/or installer the full costs of removal and
disposal of such sign.
   (K)   Relocation of signs. Signs for which a sign permit has been issued may
be relocated on the same property in conformance with the regulations of this
subchapter upon notification to the Zoning Officer. Signs that are
nonconforming may not be relocated except upon removal of all nonconforming
features of the sign.
   (L)   Obsolete or abandoned signs.
      (1)   A sign or part of a sign advertising or pertaining to a business,
product, service, commodity, event, activity or purpose which no longer exists
or that has not been in use for 90 days or more shall be deemed to be an
abandoned sign.
      (2)   Obsolete or abandoned signs are prohibited and shall be removed by
the owner, or his or her agent, within 30 days of termination of the business,
activity, event and the like with the exception of political signs, which shall
be removed within seven days after elections.
      (3)   Failure to remove such signs or parts of signs shall result in
written notice from the Zoning Officer. Failure to comply with these terms
shall result in the sign being removed at the owner’s expense. Costs of removal
or repair, court costs and attorney fees incurred by the town shall be assessed
against the owner(s), to be collected by the town in an action on the nature of
the debt.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.048  SIGN PLACEMENT.
   The following provisions shall apply to the placement of all signs in all
districts.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Signs must be located entirely on private property, unless
otherwise permitted by this section.
      (2)   No sign may be located so that it blocks the sight triangle at any
driveway or public street intersection.
   (B)   Awning, canopy and permanent window signs.
      (1)   Number. Only one canopy, awning or permanent window sign is
permitted of the awning, canopy or windowpane section, door or grouping of
such.
      (2)   Area. The copy area of an awning, canopy and or permanent window
sign shall not exceed 30% of the awning, canopy or windowpane, section, door or
grouping of such.
      (3)   Illumination. No internal illumination of an awning sign shall be
permitted.
   (C)   Projecting sign.
      (1)   Only one projection sign shall be permitted per building frontage.
      (2)   A projection sign shall not extend horizontally more than three
feet beyond the surface to which the sign is attached and no more than one and
one-half feet into a public right-of-way.
      (3)   A building shall not be permitted to have the top of a projecting
sign located higher than the second story or 28 feet.
   (D)   Suspended sign. Only one suspended sign shall be permitted per primary
public entrance.
   (E)   Wall signs.
      (1)   A wall sign shall be attached to a rigid backing of no less than
one-quarter inch in thickness. The sign shall be permanently attached to a
solid surface such as a building wall.
      (2)   A wall sign shall not extend horizontally more than 15 inches
beyond the surface to which it is attached.
      (3)   Wall mounted signs shall not extend above the top of the front of
the building.
   (F)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   All parts of freestanding signs must be set back a minimum of five
feet from the property line.
      (2)   No freestanding sign shall be located closer than 15 feet from
another structure on the same zoning lot.
      (3)   No portion of a freestanding sign, including projections, may
extend into or over an existing public right-of-way, unless expressly permitted
by this subchapter.
   (G)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall be located on private property unless
expressly permitted by this section to be posted on public property.
      (2)   All temporary signs shall be anchored, attached or otherwise
affixed to a structure or support so that the sign cannot be easily dislodged
by strong winds or heavy rains.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 156.049  PERMANENT SIGNS BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   Signs shall be permitted and prohibited within certain zoning districts as
follows:
Permanent Signs by Sign Type and Zoning District
Sign Type RA R-20 R-8; R-8(O) R-7 MHE R-6 R-6 MH NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
Permanent Signs by Sign Type and Zoning District
Sign Type           RA R-20 R-8; R-8(O) R-7 MHE R-6 R-6 MH NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
Canopy/awning       -  -    -           -       -   -      Z    Z    Z   Z
Directory           -  -    -           -       -   -      Z    Z    Z   Z
Flag                P  P    P           P       P   P      P    P    P   P
Freestanding        Z  Z    Z           Z       Z   Z      Z    Z    Z   Z
Incidental          P  P    P           P       P   P      P    P    P   P
directional
Marquee             -  -    -           -       -   -      Z    Z    Z   Z
Monument            Z  Z    Z           Z       Z   Z      Z    Z    Z   Z
Outdoor advertising -  -    -           -       -   -      -    -    -   -
Planned development Z  Z    Z           Z       Z   Z      Z    Z    Z   Z
Projecting          -  -    -           -       -   -      -    Z    Z   -
Suspended           -  -    -           -       -   -      Z    Z    -   -
Wall                -  -    -           -       -   -      Z    Z    Z   Z
Window              P  P    P           P       P   P      P    P    P   P
P = permitted without a permit
Z = permitted only upon issuance of a valid zoning permit
“-” = not permitted
Sign types not specifically listed in this table are not permitted
 
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 156.050  SIGN HEIGHT.
   The following provisions shall apply to the height of all signs.
   (A)   Supporting elements of freestanding signs shall not extend above the
sign face and shall be included in the measurement of sign height.
   (B)   Maximum sign height shall be limited by the type of sign and the
zoning district in which it is located, as follows:
Maximum Sign Height by Sign Type (in Feet)
Sign Type RA R-20 R-8; R-8(O) R-7 MHE R-6 R-6 MH NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
Maximum Sign Height by Sign Type (in Feet)
Sign Type           RA R-20 R-8; R-8(O) R-7 MHE R-6 R-6 MH NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
Directory           -  -    -           -       -   -      4    6    6   6
Flag                1  1    1           1       1   1      1    1    1   1
Freestanding        6  6    6           6       6   6      10   10   10  10
Incidental          4  4    4           4       4   4      4    4    4   4
directional
Marquee             -  -    -           -       -   -      N/A  N/A  N/A N/A
Monument            5  5    5           5       5   5      5    8    5   5
Outdoor advertising -  -    -           -       -   -      -    -    -   -
Planned development 5  5    5           5       5   5      5    8    8   10
1   Shall not exceed twice the maximum building height permitted or 40 feet,
whichever is less
 
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 156.051  NUMBER OF SIGNS PERMITTED.
   The number of signs by sign type permitted in each district on an individual
zoning lot shall be as follows:
Maximum Number of Signs per Sign Type per Zoning Lot
Sign Type RA R-20 R-8;   R-7 R-6 R-6 NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
                  R-8(O) MHE     MH
Maximum Number of Signs per Sign Type per Zoning Lot
Sign Type           RA  R-20 R-8;   R-7 R-6 R-6 NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
                             R-8(O) MHE     MH
Directory           -   -    -      -   -   -   1    11   11  11
Flag                4   4    4      4   4   4   4    4    4   4
Freestanding        2   2    2      2   2   2   2    2    2   2
Incidental          N/A N/A  N/A    N/A N/A N/A 21   21   21  21
directional
Marquee             -   -    -      -   -   -   1    1    1   1
Monument            1   1    1      1   1   1   1    1    1   1
Outdoor advertising -   -    -      -   -   -   -    -    -   -
Planned development 11  11   11     11  11  11  11   11   11  11
Total signs per lot 1*  1*   1*     1*  1*  1*  6    6    6   6
1   Per street front or development entrance, whichever is less
*   Per street front
 
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 156.052  SIGN AREA BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   The amount of sign area permitted for each sign on a zoning lot shall be as
follows:
Maximum Sign Area Per Sign Per Zoning Lot (in Square Feet)
Sign Type RA R-20 R-8; R-8(O) R-7 MHE R-6 R-6 MH NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
Maximum Sign Area Per Sign Per Zoning Lot (in Square Feet)
Sign Type           RA  R-20 R-8; R-8(O) R-7 MHE R-6 R-6 MH NB-1 NB-2 B-1 I-1
Directory           -   -    -           -       -   -      12   12   12  12
Flag                N/A N/A  N/A         N/A     N/A N/A    N/A  N/A  N/A N/A
Freestanding        4   4    4           4       4   4      36   36   36  36
Incidental/         2   2    2           2       2   2      2    2    2   2
directional
Marquee             -   -    -           -       -   -      1    1    1   1
Monument            48  36   36          24      24  24     36   48   48  48
Outdoor advertising -   -    -           -       -   -      -    -    -   -
Planned development 48  36   36          36      36  36     36   48   36  48
1   Shall not exceed 75% of the size of the marquee
 
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 156.053  PERMANENT SIGNS LIMITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
156.049 and in addition thereto, the following permanent signs shall be
permitted without a zoning permit:
      (1)   Historical markers, regulatory signs, public interest signs and
warning signs erected and maintained by the town or state or an agent of such;
      (2)   On-premises directional signs not exceeding four feet in height nor
two square feet in area;
      (3)   Identification signs not exceeding two feet in height nor two
square feet in area;
      (4)   Incidental signs;
      (5)   Flags on permanent poles;
      (6)   Any sign not legible or easily noticeable from public property or a
public right-of-way and obviously not intended to attract the attention of the
public;
      (7)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance; and
      (8)   Traffic control signs on private property, the face of which meets
Department of Transportation standards and which contain no commercial message
of any kind.
   (B)   Notwithstanding §
156.049 and in addition thereto, the following permanent signs shall be
permitted upon the issuance of a valid zoning permit:
      (1)   Any sign not expressly listed as permitted without a permit shall
require the issuance of a valid zoning permit prior to installation; and
      (2)   Off-premises privately owned and maintained directory signs that
provide a directory to businesses, uses or attractions not on the immediate
property but at nearby development sites may be placed on private property
provided that:
         (a)   The directory sign shall serve to direct the public to a single
development site or contiguous development sites;
         (b)   The property on which the directory sign is located is
immediately adjacent to the businesses, uses or attractions advertised;
         (c)   The directory sign does not exceed five feet in height nor 24
square feet in sign area;
         (d)   The property on which the directory sign is located does not
contain another directory sign;
         (e)   The directory sign is not located within 50 feet of another
permanent, privately owned freestanding sign;
         (f)   No more than one such directory sign is erected to direct the
public to the development site(s);
         (g)   The directory sign does not obstruct the clear sight triangle or
in any other way interfere with the safe passage of vehicles, pedestrians and
bicyclists on, off of or along public streets, sidewalks or bike paths; and
         (h)   If the directory sign is lighted, it shall be designed as a
knockout backlit sign.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 156.054  TEMPORARY SIGNS LIMITED.
   (A)   Temporary signs permitted without a permit. The following temporary
signs are permitted without a zoning permit in all zoning districts, but shall
be in conformance with all other requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Campaign or election signs shall be permitted provided that:
         (a)   Each sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area;
         (b)   All such signs may be erected no sooner than 90 days in advance
of an election;
         (c)   Such signs be removed within 14 days after the election; and
         (d)   No sign shall be placed in any right-of-way, any telephone pole
or street sign, or any public property.
      (2)   Real estate signs are permitted provided that:
         (a)   Allowed for a maximum of two real estate signs if the property
has two sides that have road frontage;
         (b)   Signs shall be non-illuminated;
         (c)   Signs shall not exceed a total of six square feet in area or a
maximum height of six feet;
         (d)   Real estate signs shall be removed by the realtor within seven
days of the closing of the transaction;
         (e)   No off-premises real estate signs are allowed. Location of real
estate signs are to be limited to the property which is for sale;
         (f)   Lead-in signs which are no larger than four square feet in area
shall be allowed. Text shall be limited to an arrow and firm name or logo.
Permission to locate the lead-in sign shall be secured from the property owner.
Signs shall be removed on the day of closing; and
         (g)   New subdivision signs located on the property shall not exceed
24 square feet in area and may remain until 75% of the lots are sold.
      (3)   Construction signs are permitted provided that:
         (a)   Signs located on residential lots, excluding multi-family sites,
shall not exceed six square feet in area. The maximum height of such signs
shall be six feet;
         (b)   Signs for all multi-family development sites and nonresidential
uses shall not exceed one square foot for every five linear feet of frontage of
property under construction, up to a maximum sign face area of 32 square feet.
Such signs shall not exceed a maximum height of six feet;
         (c)   Signs are confined to the site of construction;
         (d)   Only one sign per street front of the property under
construction shall be erected;
         (e)   Signs shall not be illuminated; and
         (f)   Signs shall be removed within seven days after the completion of
the project.
      (4)   Temporary farm products signs are permitted provided that:
         (a)   Signs are located on the premises where the products are sold;
         (b)   Signs advertise products produced on-site only;
         (c)   Signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area nor five feet in
height;
         (d)   Only one sign shall be erected; and
         (e)   Signs shall be removed within seven days of the termination of
sales activities.
      (5)   Temporary special event signs or banners for religious, charitable,
civic, fraternal or similar organizations are permitted provided that:
         (a)   Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area nor five feet in
height; and
         (b)   Signs shall be erected no sooner than 30 days before and removed
seven days after the event.
      (6)   Temporary directional signs within a planned development, but not
visible from the road(s) fronting the overall development, shall be permitted
so long as such signs do not exceed 12 square feet in sign area, six feet in
height, and are removed upon completion of the portion of the project to which
the signs are giving direction;
      (7)   Holiday lights and decorations;
      (8)   Signs and banners placed over the public right-of-way for special
community events or campaigns open to the general public and sponsored by
noncommercial civic, charitable, religious, community or similar organizations
provided the sign or banner has been approved and authorized for display by the
Town Manager or the Board of Commissioners;
      (9)   Any sign not legible or easily noticeable from public property or a
public right-of-way and obviously not intended to attract the attention of the
public; and
      (10)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance.
   (TB)   Temporary signs requiring a permit. Temporary signs permitted upon
issuance of a valid zoning permit shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   Temporary banners in commercial districts, provided that:
         (a)   Only one banner per establishment shall be allowed at a time;
         (b)   All banners shall be attached in total to a building wall or
permanent canopy extending from a building;
         (c)   No paper banners shall be allowed;
         (d)   Banners shall be erected for a period not to exceed four weeks;
         (e)   No more than four such signs per establishment shall be erected
within a calendar year; and
         (f)   No banner shall extend above the second occupiable floor level
of a building.
      (2)   Temporary off-premises signs or banners for special community
events, open to the general public and sponsored by noncommercial civic,
charitable, religious, community or similar organizations, provided that:
         (a)   Temporary signs shall be located outside of the public right-of-
way or at least 11 feet from the edge of any public street if the right-of-way
cannot be determined;
         (b)   Every temporary off-premises sign or banner shall be separated
by a distance of 400 feet from any other such temporary off-premises sign on
the same side of a street, and by a distance of 200 feet from any other sign on
the opposite side of a street; and
         (c)   Nothing in this provision shall be construed to authorize the
posting of such signs or banners upon trees, utility poles, traffic control
signs, lights or devices in any place or manner prohibited by the provisions
herein, nor on private property without written consent of the owner.
      (3)   Any temporary sign not expressly permitted without a permit in
division (A) above, but not expressly prohibited in § 156.055.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 156.055  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Notwithstanding §
156.049 and in addition thereto, the following signs, both permanent and
temporary, are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Signs extending into the public right-of-way other than those
expressly permitted by this section or otherwise approved by the Board of
Commissioners, if placed along public streets;
   (B)   Roof signs;
   (C)   Portable signs, except that a portable sign may be used as a temporary
sign for special community events, open to the general public and sponsored by
noncommercial civic, charitable, religious, community or similar organizations
in accordance with the regulations contained in §
156.054(B)(2);
   (D)   Flashing, fluttering, swinging, wind activated, rotating, animated
signs including flashing time and/or temperature signs, and other digital or
electronic message boards;
   (E)   Any sign which obstructs the view of motorists, pedestrians or
cyclists using any street, sidewalk, bike path or driveway, or which obstructs
the approach to any street intersection or railroad crossing, or which
interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic sign, device or signal;
   (F)   Illuminated or highly reflective signs which hamper the vision of
motorists or cyclists;
   (G)   Any sign that resembles traffic signals, traffic signs or emergency
vehicle lights and any other sign not erected by a public authority which may
be erroneously construed as governmental signs or emergency warning signs;
   (H)   Beacons, pennants and strings of lights not permanently mounted to a
rigid background, except those permitted as temporary signs;
   (I)   Any sign that interferes with free passage from or obstructs any fire
escape, down spout, window, door, stairway, ladder or opening intended as a
means of ingress or egress or providing light or air except for permitted
window signs;
   (J)   Any sign placed on any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant, bridge,
tree or other structure or surface located on, over or across any public street
right-of-way or property unless expressly authorized by this section or the
Board of Commissioners;
   (K)   Off-premises signs advertising adult establishments;
   (L)   Off-premises signs on parcels of land which are zoned residential,
used primarily for residential purposes, or which do not include an active
permitted use as established by this section;
   (M)   Inflatable devices or balloons;
   (N)   High intensity searchlights;
   (O)   Any object displayed in a manner which is intended to attract
attention to a site, product or event;
   (P)   Any sign listed as not permitted in § 156.049; and
   (Q)   Any sign not expressly permitted by this subchapter.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 156.056  ENFORCEMENT OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any sign, structure or other form of advertising defined as a sign
herein that is erected or placed anywhere in the town limits or in the extended
planning jurisdiction of the town after adoption of this subchapter that is not
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be a zoning violation
subject to the enforcement provisions outlined in this chapter.
   (B)   The town may take possession, remove and dispose of any temporary sign
not expressly permitted in this subchapter that is found within a public right-
of-way, or within 11 feet of the edge of a public street if the right-of-way
cannot be readily determined.
(Ord. O-2007-14, passed 8-7-2007)  Penalty, see §
156.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND STORAGE
§ 156.070  GENERALLY.
   (A)   There shall be provided at the time of erection of any building, or at
the time any principal building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding
dwelling units, guest rooms, seats or floor area, or before conversion from one
type of use of occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space in the
amount specified in this subchapter; provided such building is not in the
Highway Commercial District.
   (B)   Such parking space may be provided in a parking garage or properly
graded open space and shall be included in all site plans submitted to the
Planning Board.
   (C)   No public street right-of-way shall be used in determining or
providing required off-street parking.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.071  CERTIFICATE OF MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each application for a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy
submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall include information as to the
location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading spaces, and means of
ingress and egress to such space.
   (B)   This information shall be of sufficient detail to enable the Zoning
Enforcement Officer to determine whether the requirements of this subchapter
are met.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.072  COMBINATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACE.
   The required parking spaces for any number of spaces may be combined in one
lot of premises, but the required parking space for any other use shall not be
used or counted as the required space for any other use except that one-half of
the parking space required for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak
attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will
be closed at night and on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.073  REMOTE PARKING SPACE.
   If adequate parking facilities cannot be provided on the same lot where the
principal use is located, it may be provided on another lot not more than 500
feet from the principal use, provided such space is rented and/or leased on a
long-term basis or is in the same ownership as the principal use.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.074  REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Where parking lots for more than five automobiles are permitted or required
in residential districts, the following stipulations shall be met.
   (A)   The lot may be used only for parking in relation to the principal use
of the lot and not for any type of loading, sales, repair work, dismantling or
servicing.
   (B)   All entrances, exits, barricades at sidewalks and drainage works shall
be approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer prior to construction.
   (C)   Only one entrance and one exit sign not exceeding four square feet
prescribing parking regulations may be erected at each entrance or exit. No
other signs shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.075  MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The required number of off-street parking spaces specified below for each
use shall be provided.
Land Use Required Parking Space
Land Use                               Required Parking Space
                                       1 space for each 2 employees at maximum
Automobile sales and repair garages    employment on a single shift, plus 2
                                       spaces for each 300 square feet of
                                       repair or maintenance space
Bowling alleys                         2 spaces for each lane, plus 1
                                       additional space for each 2 employees
Child care facilities                  1 for each employee and 1 for each 400
                                       square feet of floor area
Churches and funeral homes             1 space for each 4 seats in the main
                                       chapel
Elementary schools and junior high     1 space for each classroom and
schools, both public and private       administrative office
                                       1 space for each 4 patient beds plus 1
Hospitals                              space for each staff or visiting doctor
                                       plus 1 space for each 4 employees
Hotels                                 1 space for each 2 rooms plus 1
                                       additional space for each 5 employees
Libraries                              1 space for each 4 seats provided for
                                       patron use
                                       4 spaces for each doctor practicing at
Medical offices and clinics            the clinic plus 1 space for each
                                       employee
Mobile homes                           2 spaces for each mobile home
Motels, tourist homes and tourist      1 space for each accommodation plus 2
courts                                 additional spaces for employees
Offices, businesses, professional or   1 space for each 200 square feet of
public, including banks                gross floor area
Places of public assembly including    1 space for each 4 fixed seats provided
private clubs and lodges, auditoriums, for patron use, plus 1 space for each
dance halls, pool rooms, theaters,     100 square feet of floor or ground area
stadiums, gymnasiums, amusement parks, used for amusement or assembly but not
community centers and all similar      including fixed seats
places of public assembly
Rescue squads and armories             Parking space equivalent to 3 times the
                                       gross floor space in the main building
Residential dwellings, single-family   2 spaces for each dwelling unit
and two-family
Restaurants, drive-ins                 Parking space equivalent to 5 times the
                                       gross floor space in the main building
Retail business and consumer service   1 space for each 200 square feet of
outlets                                gross floor area
                                       1 space for each accommodation, plus 1
Rooming and boarding houses            additional space for the owners or
                                       managers
Sanitariums, rest and convalescent     1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
homes, homes for the aged and similar  space for each staff or visiting doctor,
institutions                           plus 1 space for each 4 employees
                                       1 space for each 10 students for whom
Senior high schools, colleges, both    the school was designed, plus 1 space
public and private                     for each classroom and administrative
                                       office
Service stations                       2 spaces for each gas pump plus 3 spaces
                                       for each grease rack or similar facility
Shopping centers                       1 parking space for each 200 square feet
                                       of gross floor area
Wholesaling and industrial uses        1 space for each 2 employees at maximum
                                       employment on a single shift
 
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 7-5-2005; Ord. passed 5-6-2008; Ord. O-2008-
30, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.076  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   (A)   New businesses or services moving into existing vacant buildings
within the B-1 District are exempt from these requirements; if moving into a
new structure, however, these provisions do apply.
   (B)   The number of off-street loading berths required by this section shall
be considered as the absolute minimum and the developer shall evaluate his or
her own needs to determine if they are greater than the following minimum.
   (C)   Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry
hereafter erected shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and
unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley. Each space shall have
access to an alley, or, if there is no alley, to a street.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, an off-street loading-space shall
have a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 40 feet and an overhead clearance of 14
feet in height above the alley or street grade.
   (E)   A loading space requirement may be modified or waived by the Board of
Adjustment on application in the case of a bank, theater, assembly hall or
other building of similar loading space requirements.
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Required Number of Berths
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Required Number of Berths
0—20,000                      1
20,001—40,000                 2
40,001—100,000                3
100,001—160,000               4
160,001—240,000               5
240,001—320,000               6
320,001—400,000               7
Each 90,000 above 400,000       1 additional
 
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
BUFFERING AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.090  GENERALLY.
   The following requirements are intended to enhance the appearance and
natural beauty of the town and to protect property values through preservation
and planting of vegetation, screening and landscaping materials.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.091  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all new development, except
that the provisions of §§
156.093 and
156.094 shall not apply to areas zoned B-1.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.092  CONDITIONS ON PLANTING AND SCREENING; TREE AND SHRUB SIZE
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Landscaping, trees and plant material shall be planted in a growing
condition according to accepted horticultural practices, and they shall be
maintained in a healthy growing condition. The property owner shall replace
during the next planting season any landscaping, trees and plant material found
in a condition that does not fulfill the intent of these regulations.
   (B)   If a screening fence or wall is substituted for a required buffer,
such fence or wall shall be maintained by the property owner in good condition
throughout the period of the use of the lot. To the extent possible, existing
trees, vegetation and unique site features shall be retained and protected.
Existing healthy, mature trees, if properly located, shall be fully credited
against the requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   (1)   Trees planted in required buffer areas, including evergreens,
shall have the following minimum sizes at planting:
 
Canopy trees 6 to 8 feet height    1.75-inch trunk diameter
Medium trees 4 to 6 feet height    1.25-inch trunk diameter
Small trees  3 to 5 feet in height 0.5-inch trunk diameter
 
      (2)   Canopy trees shall reach a height of at least 35 feet. Medium trees
shall reach an expected height of 25 to 35 feet at maturity. Small trees shall
reach a height of ten to 25 feet.
   (D)   Shrubs and hedges shall be a minimum of one to two feet high
immediately after planting.
   (E)   Ground cover may include any plant material that reaches an average
height of not more than 12 inches. Alternative materials may be used in lieu of
grass provided they present a finished appearance and provide reasonably
complete coverage at the time of planting.
   (F)   Plants that restrict sight visibility at intersections of streets or
driveways, such as tall shrubs or low branching trees, shall be avoided.
   (G)   Where lot size, shape, topography or existing structures or
improvements render compliance unfeasible, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
modify these requirements provided the alternate proposal will afford a degree
of landscaping, screening and buffering equal to or exceeding these
requirements.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.093  FRONT LANDSCAPED AREA.
   A front landscaped area shall be required for all two-family, multi-family
and nonresidential uses. The required landscaped area shall be contiguous to
the front lot line of the property and have an average width of at least ten
feet. The area shall be covered with grass or other ground cover and shall
include appropriate trees and shrubs. At a minimum, one canopy tree and two
medium trees (see §
156.092) and ten shrubs shall be planted within the front landscaped area for
each 100 feet or remaining fraction thereof of lot frontage. The intent of this
provision is to enhance appearance, but avoid negation of access or screening
the use from view.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.094  BUFFER AREA.
   (A)   A buffer area shall be required to separate and screen incompatible
land uses from each other. Buffers shall be required along all boundaries of
two-family, multi-family and nonresidential uses that
abut less intensive uses.
   (B)   Such buffers shall comply with the following minimum standards:
      (1)   A buffer area shall be located within the boundaries of the subject
property, unless the owners of all abutting properties agree in writing to
allow the buffer to encroach upon their land. Said agreement shall be recorded,
as a deed attachment or separate instrument, to run with the land, and shall
provide stipulations for maintenance and upkeep as deemed necessary.
      (2)   For lots larger than three-fourths (75%) of one acre in area, the
minimum width, in feet, of the required buffer shall vary with the proposed use
of the subject and adjacent properties, as provided below. If the adjacent
property is vacant, the zoning classification shall determine the presumed
adjacent use:
Minimum Width of Required Buffer (in Feet)
Proposed Use Adjacent Use
             Single-Family Two-Family Office Commercial Multi-Family Industrial
Minimum Width of Required Buffer (in Feet)
Proposed Use Adjacent Use
             Single-Family Two-Family Office Commercial Multi-Family Industrial
Commercial   20            15         5      5          15           5
Industrial   25            25         15     10         25           5
Multi-family 15            10         10     10         5            25
Office       10            10         5      5          10           5
Single-      -             -          -      -          -            -
family
Two-family   10            -          -      -          -            -
“-” = no buffer required
 
      (3)   Exception made for buffer width on small lots: if a subject
building lot is three-fourths (75%) of one acre in area or smaller, the minimum
width of any required buffer shall be one-tenth (10%) of the subject lot’s
average width or depth as measured from the property line that borders the
adjacent use to be buffered; except that when such average lot width or depth
is 50 feet or less, any required buffer shall be at least five feet in width.
All required buffers regardless of lot size shall maintain the minimum density
requirements of division (B)(4) below.
      (4)   The buffer area shall consist of trees and shrubs of such a type,
height, spacing and arrangement as to buffer the activity on the lot
effectively from the neighboring area. Required density of the plantings shall
vary with the width of the buffer, narrow buffer strips require greater density
than wider buffer areas. At a minimum the planting shall be configured as
follows:
 
Buffer Width       Minimum Planting Density, per 100 Linear Feet
25 feet or greater 3 medium trees, 6 small trees, 12 screening plants, 10
                   shrubs
15 to 25 feet      3 medium trees, 6 small trees, 10 screening plants, 7 shrubs
5 to 15 feet       3 medium trees, 6 small trees, 8 screening plants, 3 shrubs
 
      (5)   A wall, fence or earthen berm of a location, height, design and
material approved by the Zoning Enforcement Officer may be substituted for all
or any portion of a required planting and/or buffer area. Fences and walls, if
substituted, shall be constructed of materials congruous or compatible in
design and appearance with the materials of the principal building. Finished
siding on any such fence shall face the adjoining property. Where fences or
walls are employed as substitutes for required buffers, they shall be
maintained permanently in sturdy condition and attractive appearance in the
estimation of the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or be subject to enforcement and
abatement as a public nuisance under the town code.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.095  LANDSCAPED PARKING AREAS.
   Parking areas shall comply with the following minimum standards.
   (A)   All uses required to have 20 or more off-street parking spaces shall
have at least ten square feet of interior landscaping within the paved portion
of the parking area for each parking space, and at least one tree for every ten
parking spaces or remaining fraction thereof.
   (B)   Each interior landscaped area shall contain a minimum of 200 square
feet and shall be planted with shrubs and trees.
   (C)   A landscaped area shall be provided along the perimeter of any parking
area. The required landscaped area shall have a minimum width of five feet and
shall be planted with two canopy trees and ten shrubs per 100 linear feet of
perimeter area. Two medium or small trees may substitute for each required
canopy tree in areas near overhead power lines and existing buildings.
   (D)   Interior landscaped areas shall be spaced throughout the lot to reduce
the visual impact of long rows of parked cars. At a minimum, landscaped areas
shall be distributed approximately once every ten spaces for residential and
once every 15 spaces for other types of development.
   (E)   Landscaped areas shall be provided at the ends of parking aisles and
shall be planted with shrubs and/or trees.
   (F)   The required number of parking spaces may be reduced by one parking
space for each 150 square feet of interior planting area, not exceeding 10% of
the entire parking area.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.096  SCREENING OF OUTDOOR STORAGE AREA.
   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from view of adjacent streets and
from all residentially zoned land, by a double row of evergreen shrubs or trees
planted to form a continuous hedge of at least six feet in height within two
years of installation.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.097  SCREENING OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   All nonresidential uses shall screen from view from public places and
neighboring properties all mechanical equipment, including, but not limited to,
ground or roof-mounted air conditioning, air conditioners or pumps, through use
of features such as berms, fences, false facades or dense landscaping
compatible with the site.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.098  CENTRAL SOLID WASTE STORAGE AREA.
   All new buildings and uses, except for single-family and two-family
dwellings, shall provide facilities for the central storage of solid waste
within the lot. Where such facilities are provided outside of a building they
shall be screened from adjacent property by an enclosure constructed of
materials congruous with the materials on the exterior walls of the main
buiiding(s).
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.099  UNOCCUPIED LOT AREAS.
   All areas of a developed lot not occupied by buildings, structures,
improvements, pedestrian and vehicular circulation ways, off-street parking and
outside storage shall be appropriately improved with ground cover, trees,
shrubbery or mulch.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.100  STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Long-term uses (longer than one year). The long-term uses of storage
container(s) may be permitted in all zoning districts except R-6, R-8, R-7, R-
7MHE, R-6MH, R-8-O where the maximum size of storage container(s) located in
these zones is a height of eight feet and six inches, a width of eight feet,
and a length of 21 feet with an approved zoning permit, if it meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   A site plan of the proposed location of the storage container(s),
have been submitted and approved by the Zoning Administrator and Building
Inspector.  The site plan shall include existing adjacent properties, proposed
location and dimensions of storage container(s), current zoning, proposed
buffering/screening as recommended by Zoning Administrator, existing right-of-
ways, required setback distances, foundation footprints to be approved by the
Building Inspector and/or Zoning Administrator, and elevation details of the
proposed site.
      (2)   If the intended use of the storage container(s) includes occupation
and the inclusion of electrical, plumbing, heating or air conditioning systems,
it shall fall under the same standards as a manufactured home (see applicable
definition in §
156.016) in the underlying zone for which it is located.
      (3)   Storage container(s) shall be set back a minimum five feet from any
property line, minimum ten feet from any other structure and located in either
the side or rear yard of the property.
      (4)   Only one storage container is allowed per lot unless otherwise
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Each storage container(s) shall be one solid color and shall not
contain any names, logos or other markings painted on, or otherwise attached
to, the exterior of the container(s).
      (6)   Storage container(s) located in commercial, industrial and
residential zones not specified in this division shall be screened away from
the general public in a manner which maintains harmony with the surrounding
structures. Storage container(s) located in zones specified in this division
(R-6, R-8, R-7, R-7MHE, R-6MH, R-8-O), shall be screened from view of adjacent
streets and from other residentially zoned land, by a double row of evergreen
shrubs or trees planted to form a continuous hedge of at least six feet in
height within two years of installation.
   (B)   Town-owned property and town uses. Storage container(s) that are owned
and used by the town (regardless of the underlying zoning district), are
permitted with the approval of the Town Manager. The number of storage
container(s) allowed and the time period for which a container(s) may be used
under this division shall be established by the Town Manager.
   (C)   Short-term uses (14 to 90 days).  The short-term use of storage
container(s) is permitted in all zoning districts and requires a temporary
storage permit that shall not exceed 90 days. Temporary storage permits may be
granted a maximum of two times per year per property.
      (1)   General site plans are required to be submitted for temporary
storage permits. A temporary storage permit will be granted with the approval
of the Zoning Administrator. General site plans for short-term uses of storage
container(s) shall include existing adjacent properties, proposed location and
dimensions of storage container(s), and current zoning.
      (2)   Maximum size of storage container(s) located in zones R-6, R-8, R-
7, R-7MHE, R-6MH, R-8-O is a height of eight feet and six inches, a width of
eight feet and a length of 21 feet.
   (D)   Accessory to building permit. Temporary storage permits are not
required for storage container(s) which are accessories to building
construction as long as a valid building permit is present on site. At the
expiration of the building permit, all storage container(s) must be removed
from the property. Storage container(s) used on an active building site do not
require foundations.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited for storage
container(s):
      (1)   Storage container(s) used primarily for storage shall not be used
for human habitation.
      (2)   Storage container(s) used for the primary intent of storage shall
not have any factory-built or field applied electrical, plumbing, heating, or
air conditioning systems. Furthermore, the storage container(s) shall not be
connected to a power system. Storage container(s) that are used otherwise with
the intent of conducting regular business will be treated as manufactured homes
and must meet the same standards as required by Building Code with the approval
of the Building Inspector and issuance of a conditional use permit by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Storage container(s) shall not be stacked on top of each other or
on top of any other structure.
      (4)   Storage container(s) shall not block, obstruct or reduce in any
manner any required exits, windows, vent shafts, parking spaces and/or access
driveways.
      (5)   Refuse and/or debris or any material that is required to be
placarded according to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Emergency
Response Guidebook (ERG), shall not be stored in, against, on or under the
cargo container(s).
      (6)   The keeping of animals in storage container(s) is not permitted.
      (7)   The location of a storage container(s) within a structure is
prohibited unless it is approved by the Fire Department and Building Inspector.
   (F)   Existing and nonconforming structures. Storage container(s) that are
already present prior to the adoption of this chapter are considered to be
grandfathered/nonconforming uses. Any storage container(s) defined as such will
be treated as defined in §§
156.240 through
156.242.
(Ord. O-2007-20IN, passed 9-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.101  ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Minor uses of structures. Minor uses of structures which are necessary
to the operation or the enjoyment of permitted principal uses, and are
appropriate, incidental and subordinate to any uses, and located on the same
lot as the principal use, shall be permitted in districts defined under the
general ordinance with certain exceptions herein as an accessory use, subject
to the following:
      (1)   In no event shall accessory uses or accessory structures be
construed to authorize a use or structure not otherwise permitted in the
district in which the principal use is located.
      (2)   The following activities are specifically regarded as accessory to
residential principal uses so long as they satisfy the general criteria set
within this chapter:
         (a)   Offices or studios within an enclosed building and used by an
occupant of a residence located on the same lot as such building to carry on
administrative or artistic activities of a commercial nature, so long as such
activities do not fall within the definition of a home occupation.
         (b)   Hobbies or recreational activities of a non-commercial nature.
         (c)   Yard sales or garage sales, so long as such sales follow the
guideline defined in the yard sale ordinance.
         (d)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the sale of
agricultural products (either in a roadside stand or on a pick your own basis)
from property where such products were grown or from land that is all part of
the same farm or farming operation as the land where such products were grown
shall be regarded as accessory to an agricultural operation.
      (3)   Petroleum storage, accessory to a permitted principal use or
building is permitted.
      (4)   A swimming pool shall be considered an accessory use. A swimming
pool shall only be located in the rear yard of residential properties.
      (5)   On any lot containing a principal residential use, no accessory use
or structure shall be permitted that involves or requires any construction
features which are not primarily residential in nature or character.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   No accessory structure shall be located within any required front
or side yard; or within five feet of any abutting lot lines nor within seven
feet of the principal building and shall meet the dimensional requirements and
parking requirements for the district in which located.
      (2)   Accessory structures not connected or attached to principal
structures shall be located at least seven feet from the principal structure.
Roofed accessory structures physically attached or connected to the principal
building shall be considered a part of the principal building and shall be
subject to the dimensional requirements for the principal building.
      (3)   On corner lots where applicable, accessory uses shall be set back
at least 30 feet from any side street right-of-way line.
      (4)   No accessory structure or building except utility substations shall
be erected in any easements.
   (C)   Size.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not cover more than 30% of any required
rear yard, nor exceed 60% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (2)   Accessory uses with gross floor area (GFA) less than 600 square
feet shall not be located within five feet of any property line. Accessory
structures with a GFA of more than 600 square feet must meet the principal
building(s) dimensional requirements.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall not exceed the height of the principal
building.
   (D)   Fences.
      (1)   Permitted fences and walls, security gates, paths, walkways,
mailboxes, utility poles, lighting fixtures, patios at grade and similar
features may be located in permitted yards, at least five feet from the
property line, so long as the sight triangle on corner lots is protected.
      (2)   Permitted fences and walls, located in the front yard shall be a
minimum of a one foot in height and a maximum of six feet in height. Decorative
caps or spires which extend above the highest horizontal member of the fence
shall not be included in the measurement of the height. Chain link or similar
fencing material, if used, shall be placed on the interior side of a masonry
wall or solid wood fence and shall be planted with a semi-opaque vegetative
screen between wall or fence and the public street.
      (3)   Permitted fences and walls, located in the rear or side yard which
abuts a street or alley may not exceed eight feet in height unless placed 15
feet or more inside the property boundary. Within such a distance, the maximum
height of the fence shall be ten feet. If located within a residential
district, within the first 15 feet, fences of chain link or similar material
are permitted only if screened on the exterior side by evergreen shrubs planted
no farther apart than six feet on center, minimum height two and one half feet
at installation, or if obscured from view by other screening method(s) which
perform at the same or a higher level.
      (4)   Permitted fences and walls in an established rear or side yard
which does not abut a street or alley may not exceed eight feet in height in
residential districts unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
Accessory Use Setback Table
Zone Permitted Front Side Rear Principal Structure
Accessory Use Setback Table
Zone    Permitted Front Side Rear Principal Structure
R-A     P         10    -    5    7
R-20    P         10    -    5    7
R-8     P         10    -    5    7
R-7 MHE -         -     -    -    -
R-6     P         10    -    5    7
R-6 MH  P         10    -    5    7
NB-1    -         -     -    -    -
NB-2    -         -     -    -    -
B-1     P         10    -    5    7
I-1     -         -     -    -    -
R-8O    P         10    -    5    7
Chart does not include required setbacks for accessory dwellings, public
works substations or utility stations, fences or storage container
 
Front yard setbacks only apply in areas where permitted
 
   (E)   Yard locations.  For the purposes of this chapter, the yard locations
shall be indicated as illustrated below:
[Image]
(Ord. O-2008-23, passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see §
156.999
DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 156.110  RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE DISTRICT (RA).
   The Residential-Agricultural District is established as a district in which
the principal use of the land is for low-density residential and agricultural
purposes. These districts are intended to ensure that residential development
not having access to public water supplies and dependent upon septic tanks for
sewage disposal will occur at a sufficiently low density to provide a healthful
environment.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 11-13-2001; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-
2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.111  LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-20).
   The Low Density Residential District is established as a district in which
the principal use of land is for low density residential development. The
regulations of this district are intended to discourage any use, which because
of its character, would be a nuisance to the neighboring residences and to
ensure that residential developments will occur at sufficiently low densities
to assure a healthful environment. The regulations are further intended to
discourage any use, which because of its character would substantially
interfere with the development of residences in the district, which would be
detrimental to the quiet residential nature of the areas included within this
district.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.112  MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-8).
   The Medium Density Residential District is created to provide for a variety
of residential living styles including single-family, two-family and multi-
family dwellings.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.113  MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT–EXTRATERRITORIAL (R-7 MHE).
   The Mobile Home Residential District–Extraterritorial is created to offer
mobile home dwellers the opportunity to live in harmony with the surrounding
land uses.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.114  HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-6).
   The High Density Residential District is created to provide for a variety in
residential living styles including single-family, two-family and multi-family
dwellings.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.115  MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-6 MH).
   The Mobile Home Residential District is created to offer mobile home
dwellers the opportunity to live in harmony with the surrounding land uses.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 4-1-2003; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006;
Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.116  NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (NB-1).
   The Neighborhood Business District is established as a mixed-use district in
which the principal use of land is in combination of commercial, office and
residential uses which are properly located in vicinity of a primary
thoroughfare which cater to everyday needs of the immediate surrounding
residential neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Ord. passed 12-4-2001; Ord. O-
2007-33IN, passed 12-4-2007; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.117  NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (NB-2).
   The Neighborhood Business District is generally located on the major
thoroughfare in town and provides space for offices, services and retail goods.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Ord. passed 5-7-2002; Ord. passed
12-7-2004; Ord. O-2007-33IN, passed 12-4-2007; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.118  DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1).
   The regulations for this district are designed to permit a concentrated
development of permitted facilities within the central portion of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-1-2001; Ord. passed 10-12-2004; Ord.
passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.119  LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1).
   The Light Industrial District is created to accommodate industrial activity
that is operated in a relatively clear, quiet and unobnoxious manner.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. passed 9-5-2000; Ord. passed
10-3-2000; Ord. passed 11-13-2001; Ord. passed 9-6-2005; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.120  MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (OVERLAY) (R-8(O)).
   The Medium Density Residential District (Overlay) is an overlay district
created to provide for a variety of residential living styles including single-
family, two-family and multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.121  SPECIAL USES.
   The following regulations are required for any special use.
   (A)   Development plan.  A development plan shall be prepared for all
special uses and be sealed by an architect, engineer or surveyor licensed in
the state containing the following information:
      (1)   The location, floor plans and general exterior dimensions of main
and accessory buildings.
      (2)   Location, arrangement and dimensions of truck loading and unloading
spaces and docks.
      (3)   Architectural plans for all proposed buildings.
      (4)   Location, design and dimensions of vehicular entrances, exits and
drives.
      (5)   Ground cover, streams topography, slopes, banks and ditches.
      (6)   The location, dimensions and arrangements of areas to be devoted to
plantings, lawns, trees and other plants.
      (7)   Location and materials of walls and fences.
      (8)   Specific drainage systems, as it relates to the site and adjoining
properties.
      (9)   Location, arrangements and dimensions of automobile parking spaces,
width of aisles, width of bays, angled parking and sidewalk layouts.
      (10)   The plans for proposed utility layouts, including sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, water distribution lines and electrical service.
      (11)   Plans for refuse disposal equipment and method of refuse disposal
such as compactors or dumpsters. An opaque or decorative fence of a least six
feet in height shall enclose all dumpsters.
      (12)   Preliminary sediment control plan. Developer must submit a copy of
the approved sediment control plan prior to development or construction.
      (13)   Delineation of areas to be constructed in phases and sequential
order.
      (14)   An analysis of anticipated traffic volume.
      (15)   The plans for proposed utility layouts, including sanitary sewer,
storm sewers, water distribution lines, natural or propane gas lines, telephone
and electrical service (all utilities shall be constructed to local government
body standards, if applicable).
      (16)   Evidence that the North Carolina Department of Transportation has
been made aware of the proposed development and that the developer will
coordinate for the development with this agency.
      (17)   Or any other information that the Boards deem necessary.
   (B)   Land clearing/inert debris landfill minor (off-site) for profit.
      (1)   Any landfill shall obtain all applicable permits and comply with
the standards of the County Environmental Health Department and the state. All
approved permits shall be submitted in the site plan to the Planning Department
prior to issuance of the special use permit.
      (2)   Driveway access to the facility shall be paved and must directly
connect to a road that is maintained the by NCDOT. Residential and gravel roads
shall not be allowed for access.
      (3)   All driveways which serve the site shall be wide enough to
accommodate two-way traffic at all times and an area on the site shall be
provided accommodate vehicles entering the site so that no traffic waiting to
enter the site will be backed up on any public right-of-way.
      (4)   The maximum area of the site shall be limited to two acres.
      (5)   A minor landfill shall be limited to a maximum period of operation
of three years from the date of issuance of the special use permit
      (6)   No portion of any such landfill shall be located within 100 feet of
any exterior property line. This includes structures, equipment storage,
parking areas and fill areas. Access drives may cross this area but not be
placed laterally through this area.
      (7)   The fill area shall be located at least 100 feet from any existing
drinking water well at the time of approval.
      (8)   A 15-foot evergreen tree buffer of at least six feet in height
shall be retained around the exterior property line.
      (9)   Vehicular and pedestrian access to the site must be controlled; the
site must be closed and secured during hours of non-operation.
      (10)   Operation of use shall be between the times of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday.
      (11)   No filling of any kind is allowed within 100 feet of the
regulatory flood plain or floodway fringe or within any drainage ways.
      (12)   The landfill operator shall be responsible for removal of any and
all debris, dirt or other materials that fall from vehicles entering or leaving
the landfill from all adjoining streets. Failure to comply shall constitute a
violation of this section and shall constitute grounds for revocation of the
operating permit.
      (13)   A surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit in an amount to be
determined by the Town Manager and with consultation with a consulting engineer
shall be provided to ensure that any active landfill area will be closed hi an
approved fashion. The amount of the bond will be based upon the maximum acreage
expected to be m use at any given time. No more than 25% of the total area to
be filled may be actively used at any one time.
      (14)   A reclamation plan shall be provided to show how the she will be
reclaimed upon the closing of the landfill. Upon closure, a minimum of one foot
of clean soil graded to maximum slope of three to one and stabilized with
vegetation or by other approved means.
      (15)   The following are acceptable materials to be discarded at such a
site: untreated wood, brick, concrete, concrete block, asphalt, uncontaminated
soil, rock, gravel, stumps, brush and limbs.
      (16)   The following are included but not limited to materials
unacceptable materials to be discarded at such a site: treated or painted wood,
press-board, sheetrock, insulation, shingles, asbestos products, plastic or
plastic buckets, metal, tires, liquids, cardboard, paper products, garbage,
hazardous waste, furniture and appliances.
   (C)   Land clearing/inert debris landfill major (off-site) for profit.
      (1)   Any landfill shall obtain all applicable permits and comply with
the standards of the County Environmental Health Department and the state. All
approved permits shall be submitted in the site plan to the Planning Department
prior to issuance of the special use permit.
      (2)   Driveway access to the facility shall be paved and must directly
connect to a road that is maintained the by NCDOT. Residential and gravel roads
shall not be allowed for access.
      (3)   All driveways which serve the site shall be wide enough to
accommodate two-way traffic at all times and an area on the site shall be
provided accommodate vehicles entering the site so that no traffic waiting to
enter the site will be backed up on any public right-of-way.
      (4)   No portion of any such landfill shall be located within 100 feet of
any exterior property line. This includes structures, equipment storage and
parking areas. Access drives may cross this area but not be placed laterally
through this area.
      (5)   The fill areas shall be located at least 300 feet from any
residential district and any existing drinking water well at the time of
approval.
      (6)   A 15-foot evergreen tree buffer of at least six feet in height
shall be retained around the exterior property line.
      (7)   Vehicular and pedestrian access to the site must be controlled; the
site must be closed and secured during hours of non-operation.
      (8)   Operation of use shall be between the times of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday.
      (9)   The fill area of the site shall be limited to a maximum of ten
acres.
      (10)   No filling of any kind is allowed within 100 feet of the
regulatory flood plain or floodway fringe or within any drainage ways.
      (11)   The landfill operator shall be responsible for removal of any and
all debris, dirt or other materials that fall from vehicles entering or leaving
the landfill from all adjoining streets. Failure to comply shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and shall constitute grounds for revocation of the
operating permit.
      (12)   A surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit in an amount to be
determined by the County Manager and with consultation with a consulting
engineer shall be provided to ensure that any active landfill area will be
closed in an approved fashion. The amount of the bond will be based upon the
maximum acreage expected to be in use at any given time. No more than 25% of
the total area to be filled may be actively used at any one time.
      (13)   A reclamation plan shall be provided to show how the site will be
reclaimed upon the closing of the landfill. Upon closure, a minimum of one foot
of clean soil, graded to maximum slope of three to one and stabilized with
vegetation or by other approved means.
      (14)   The following are acceptable materials to be discarded at such a
site: untreated wood, brick, concrete, concrete block, asphalt, uncontaminated
soil, rock, gravel, stumps, brush and limbs.
      (15)   The following are included but not limited to unacceptable
materials to be discarded at such a site: treated or painted wood, press-board,
sheetrock, insulation, shingles, asbestos products, plastic or plastic buckets,
metal, tires, liquids, cardboard, paper products, garbage, hazardous waste,
furniture and appliances.
(Ord. O-2010-20, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 156.122  DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS TABLE.
Dimensional Requirements Table
               Max. Number
         Min.  of Dwelling   Min. Lot              Min.
         Lot   Units per     Width at   Min.       Yard-  Min. Yard Max
District Area  acre for Two- Building   Yard-Front Side   - Rear    Heig ht
         (sq.  Family and    Line (ft.) (ft.)      (ft.)4 (ft.)5    (ft.)6
         ft.)1 Multi-Family
               Developments1
Dimensional Requirements Table
                Max. Number
         Min.   of Dwelling   Min. Lot              Min.
         Lot    Units per     Width at   Min.       Yard-  Min. Yard  Max
District Area   acre for Two- Building   Yard-Front Side   - Rear     Heig ht
         (sq.   Family and    Line (ft.) (ft.)      (ft.)4 (ft.)5     (ft.)6
         ft.)1  Multi-Family
                Developments1
                                                           20% of
                                                           mean lot
RA       30,000 4             150        50         15     depth, not 35
                                                           to exceed
                                                           30
                                                           20% of
                                                           mean lot
R-20     20,000 4             100        45         15     depth, not 35
                                                           to exceed
                                                           30
                                                           20% of
R-8                                                        mean lot
R-8 (O)2 8,000  8             85         45         12     depth, not 35
                                                           to exceed
                                                           30
R-7 MHE  7,000  N/A           N/A        N/A        N/A    N/A        N/A
R-6      6,000  9             75         30         12     N/A        35
R-6 MH   6,000  9             N/A        306        N/A    N/A        N/A
NB-1     None   N/A           N/A        N/A        N/A    N/A        N/A
NB-2     None   N/A           N/A        45         127    N/A        N/A
B-l      None   N/A           N/A        None       06     None       35
I-1      1 acre N/A           200        50         15     20         None
1   The County Environmental Health Department may require a larger lot
because of soil conditions
2   Class A manufactured homes on individual lots permitted
3   Computations begin anew for each building
4   Accessory building may be located in rear yard only
5   To be exceeded only when depth of the front and total width of side yards
required is increased by 1 foot for each 2 feet or fraction thereof of
building height in excess of 35 feet
6   On corner lots, the side yard adjacent to the street shall have not less
than 50% on the front yard required the lot in rear of such corner lot
7   Not applicable within a planned unit development
8   When a business abuts a residential district, the structure shall be a
minimum of ten feet from all exterior property lines abutting the residential
district
 
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.123  PERMITTED USE TABLE.
   (A)   Permitted use table.  See below.
   (B)   Conditional uses. 
      (1)   The following list of conditional uses shall only be permitted upon
the approval of the Board of Adjustment after the Board finds that all the
requirements of this chapter are met. All conditional uses considered by the
Board of Adjustment shall not adversely affect the surrounding land uses in
terms of appearance, safety, property values and other effects, which would
normally be realized if such a use, were located in a particular area.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may also attach additional conditions when
permitting such uses within such proposed zoning district.
Use Zone
    R-A R-20 R-8 R-7MHE R-6 R-6MH NB- 1 NB-2 B-1 I-1 R-8(O)
Use            Zone
               R-A R-20  R-8   R-   R-6   R-6MH NB- 1 NB-2  B-1   I-1   R-8(O)
                               7MHE
ABC store                                           P           
Adult          -   -     -     -    -     -     -     -     -     -     -
establishments
Agriculture    P                                                
Accessory uses P2  P2(a) P2(a)     P2(a) P2(a)           P2(b)      P2(a)
and structures
Apartments                                P           P           
Assisted                                  P                     
living homes
Automobile
dealership and                            C          C           
associated
business
Automobile                                     P                
parts sale
Automobile
sales, service
and garage and                                 P     P13   P      
body repair
garage
Automobile
washing                                        P                
establishments
Backyard       P                                                
workshops
Banks and
other lending                             P     P     P           
institutes
Barber shops                              P     P     P     P      
Beauty shops                              P     P     P     P      
Billiard                                            P           
parlors
Boarding house                  P     P                          
Body shop      C                                      P     P      
Boy Scout huts                  P     P                          
Bus stations
and associated                                      P           
operations
Cemeteries        C     C         C     C                         C
Churches and
customary      P1  C1(a) C1(a)     C1(a) C1(a)                     C
related uses
Clothing                                                 P      
manufacture
Colleges       P9                                               
Commercial     C                                                
airport
Contractor                                               P      
facilities
Convalescent   P6                P     P                          
homes
Customary/
incidental     P         P     P    P     P                          P
home
occupations
Cooking and    P                                                
baking
Clubs and      P   C     C         P     P                         P
lodges
Community      P   C     C         P     P                         P
center
Dressmaking    P                                                
Drive-in                                            P12         
restaurants
Dairy bar and
associated                                C     P                
food stands
Daycare        P3  C     C         C     C          P     C          C
facilities
Drug stores                               P     P                 
Duplex, two-   C10 C10   P         P          P                     
family
Education      P        P         P               P                
facilities
Electrical                                     C                
contractor
Family         P                                                
campgrounds
Feed mill                                           P           
operations
Fire station   P7                                    P           
Fishing lakes  P   C     C         P     P                         P
Florist shop                                   P                
Funeral home                                   C     P           
Furniture and
appliance                                      P                
store
Garages        C                                         P     P
Golf course    P   C     C         P     P                         P
Grocery store                             C     P                
Guest house                     P     P                          
Hairdressing   P                                                
Hardware store                                      P           
Homes for                       P     P                          
aging
Horse stable           C                                       C
Horticulture   P                                                
Hosiery                                             P           
operations
Insurance and  P                                                
accounting
Kindergarten   P3  C     C         C     C                         C
Knitting                                            P           
operations
Laundry mat
and drop off/
pick up                                        C     P           
cleaning
services
Library                                             P           
Lumber mills                                             P      
and yards
Manufactured   C   C                        C     C     C     C      
building
Manufactured   P4            P         P                            
home, Class A
Manufactured   P4            P         P                            
home, Class B
Manufacturing
or processing,                                       C     C      
A
Manufacturing
or processing,                                       C     C      
B
Manufacturing
or processing,                                             C      
C
Martial arts                                   C     C           
school/gym
Meat
processing                                               P      
plant
Metal
fabrication                                              C      
plant (small
and large)
Mini storage      C                             C          P      
Mobile home                 P11                                 
parks
Mobile home                                    C                
sales
Movie theater,                                      P           
indoors
Multifamily    C10 C10   P         P          P                     
dwelling
Music          P                                                
instruction
Noncommercial     P     P              P     P                    P
truck farm
Nurseries                                 C                     
(agriculture)
Nursing homes          C         P     P     P          P          C
Office,                                    P     P     P      
business
Office, CPA                                P     P     P      
Office,                                    P     P     P      
dentist
Office,                                    P     P     P      
doctors
Office,                                    P     P     P      
engineering
Office,                                   P     P     P           
governmental
Office, lawyer                             P     P     P      
Office,                                   P     P     P           
professional
Office, public                             P     P     P      
Office street
parking                                                  P      
facilities
Parking lots                                        P           
(public)
Parking lots                                        P           
(private)
Physical                                       P          P      
fitness center
Pinball
machine
recreational                                    P                
outlet
(gameroom/
arcade)
Playground     P   C     C         P     P                         P
Police station P7                                               
Private        P   P              P     P                         P
garages
Private parks  P   C     C         P     P                         P
Private        P9       P9        P9    P9         P9              P9
schools
Private        P   P     P         P     P                         P
swimming pool
Produce
processing and                                            C      
retailing
Public         P9       P9        P9    P9                        P9
elementary
Public
operations     C   C     C     C    C     C     C     C     C     C     C
facilities
Public parks   P   C     C         P     P                         P
Public safety  P7                                               
facilities
Public schools                                 P9               
Public works   C5  C5(a) C5(a)                                    
facilities
Pumping        C5  C5(a) C5(a)     C5(a) C5(a)      C5(a) C5(a) C5(a) C5(a)
stations
Recreational   C                                           P      
facilities
Recreational
vehicle,
mobile home                                P                     
and marine
sales
Rear yard
parking and       P8    P8    P8   P8                             P8
storage
Rental of not
more than one  P                                           
room
Repair shops:
jewelry, shoes                                       P           
and household
appliances
Rescue squad   P7                                               
headquarter
Rest homes     P6                                               
Restaurants                                    P     P12         
Retail
business,                                 C     C     C           
large
Retail
business,                                 C     P     P           
medium
Retail
business,              C                   C     P     P           
small
Retail                                    C          P           
establishments
Retail trade,
mobile home             C                                        C
supplies
Retirement                                P                     
homes
Salvage yards  C                                           C      
Sawmills
(temporary and C                                           
permanent)
Secondary      P        P         P     P                         P
schools
Service                                   P     P     P     P      
business-A
Service                                                         P
business-B
Service                                   C     P                
station
Shopping                                       C                 
center
Single family  P   P     P         P     P     C     P               P
dwelling
Swimming pools P   C     C         P     P                         P
Tanning booths         C                                  P     C
Telephone      C5                                               
exchange
Tennis Court      P     P         P     P                         P
Transformer
stations       C5  C5(a) C5(a)     C5(a) C5(a)      C5(a) C5(a) C5(a) C5(a)
(utility
towers)
Universities   9                                                
Variety stores                            C     P                
Water tower    C5  C5(a) C5(a)     C5(a) C5(a)      C5(a) C5(a) C5(a) C5(a)
(storage tank)
Wholesale fuel                                      P           
distributor
Winery         C                                                
Notes
1   Churches and their customary related uses including cemeteries, provided
that all buildings and graves shall be set back at least 20 feet from any
property line.
1(a)   Churches and church bulletin boards, lighted or unlighted, not
exceeding 50 square feet.
2   Customary accessory uses and structures including private garages,
swimming pools and other accessory structures in the rear yard where they
shall not cover more than 30% of said rear yard.
2(a)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily or necessarily incident to any
of the above specified uses, including private swimming pools, tennis courts
and noncommercial truck farm. An accessory use shall be situated on the same
lot or contiguous premises as the primary use to which it is accessory.
2(b)   Uses customarily accessory to permitted uses, but not to include open-
air storage.
3   Kindergartens and day care facilities provided they comply with the
applicable state regulations, provided that not less than 100 square feet of
play area is provided for each child, and provided further said aggregate play
space is surrounded by a sturdy fence at least four feet in height.
4   Provided they meet the same lot and yard requirements as site built homes.
5   Public works and public utility facilities such as transformer stations
(utility towers), pumping stations, water towers (storage tanks) and telephone
exchanges, provided:
      such facilities are essential to the service of the community and no
vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises;
      all buildings and apparatus shall be set back at least 20 feet from all
property lines and shall be designed and landscaped in such a way to blend in
with the surrounding area (*This section was changed from a permitted use to a
conditional use November 13, 2001).
5(a)   Public utility substation, utility towers, pumping stations, storage
tanks, provided that each of the above uses is set back a minimum of 25 feet
from any exterior property line and provided that natural evergreen screening
is used.
6   Rest and convalescent homes not used primarily the treatment of contagious
diseases, alcoholics, drug addicts or psychotics.
7   Public safety facilities such as fire and police stations and rescue squad
headquarters, provided that all vehicles and equipment shall be stored
indoors; provided further, that all buildings shall be set back at least 20
feet from all property lines and shall be designed and landscaped in such a
way as to blend in with the surround area.
8   Rear yard parking or storing of not more than one unoccupied travel
trailer, camping trailer, motorized home, pickup coach, self- contained travel
trailer and/or boat.
9   Public primary and secondary schools, colleges, universities and private
schools having the same curriculum as ordinarily given in the public schools.
10   Two family and multifamily dwellings, subject to the conditions and
dimensional requirements.
11   Provided all provisions of §§
156.135 through
156.144 are met.
12   Restaurants and drive-in restaurants; provided such drive-in restaurants
are fenced on all sides which abut residential zones to a height of at least
six feet.
13   Automobile sales, service and body repair garages, provided however, a
used car or used truck lot shall not be a permitted use except in conjunction
with and as a part of a franchised new car or truck dealership.
 
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 156.135  GENERALLY.
   The purpose of these mobile home park regulations is to provide an
acceptable environment for what are in fact small communities of mobile homes.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.136  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable manufactured housing unit designed for
transportation on its own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi-
permanent foundation, having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and at
least eight feet in width, constructed to be towed on its chassis and designed
without a permanent foundation for year-round occupancy, which includes one or
more components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently
expanded for additional capacity or of two or more units separately towable but
designed to be joined into one integral unit, as well as a portable dwelling
composed of a single unit. Such vehicle shall contain as an integral part of
its construction kitchen facilities and a completely equipped bathroom
consisting of a flush toilet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower. All units
constructed since 1976 shall comply with the National Mobile Construction and
Safety Standards adapted by United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land where three or more mobile homes
are located that are utilized as dwelling units and a rental fee is paid to the
landowner or park operator.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of land within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home in accordance with the requirements set forth
in this subchapter.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure designed to be transported and intended
for human occupancy as a dwelling for short periods of time. Such vehicles
contain limited or no kitchen and bathroom facilities.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.137  COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   All mobile home parks existing at the time of adoption of this subchapter
are not required to comply with these regulations. However, before any existing
park can add additional mobile home sites, or a new park constructed, all
requirements of this chapter must be met.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.138  APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Development plan. A development plan shall be presented to the
administrative office (Administrative Officer or his or her designated
representative). The development plan shall comply with the specifications
listed. A fee of $50 shall be paid to the town for each proposal to cover the
cost of advertising and administrative costs. Copies of the development plan
shall be forwarded to the Town Planning Board for review and to the Town Board
of Commissioners for action.
   (B)   Public hearing. The Administrative Officer shall schedule a public
hearing on the proposal within 60 days after the proposal is filed. Public
notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the community at least once each week for two successive weeks prior to the
public hearing. The Administrative Officer shall also post notice on the
property involved for a period of one week prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Action by the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall review the
proposal prior to the public hearing and negotiate with the developer for any
changes that might be needed to comply with the ordinance. The recommendations
of the Planning Board shall be presented to the Town Board of Commissioners
prior to the public hearing. The Planning Board may revise its recommendations
following the public hearing and present such recommendations to the
Commissioners before final action is taken.
   (D)   Action by the Town Board of Commissioners. The Commissioners shall
approve, modify or deny the application for a mobile home park following the
public hearing. In making their final decision the Town Board of Commissioners
shall ensure:
      (1)   The mobile home park will not impair the integrity or character of
the surrounding or adjoining land uses, nor be detrimental to the health,
morals or welfare of residents of the area;
      (2)   Careful consideration has been given to the impact of the mobile
home park on the community, particularly the additional requirements for
transportation, schools, parks and playgrounds;
      (3)   That development will not occur in natural or fragile areas, such
as in floodplains;
      (4)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, sanitation or
other necessary facilities have been or are being approved; and
      (5)   That adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.139  REVOCATION OF APPROVAL.
   In any case where the requirements of this chapter are not being met, the
Administrative Officer shall give the park owner notice of intention to revoke
approval at least ten days prior to the review by the Town Board of
Commissioners, After review the Board may revoke approval of the mobile home
park.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.140  EXPIRATION.
   In the case where an approval has not been exercised within one year, the
approval shall be null and void. EXERCISED as set forth in this section shall
mean that the binding contracts for the construction of the main building have
been let; or in the absence of contracts that the main building is under
construction to a substantial degree; or that prerequisite conditions involving
substantial investment are contracted for or completed (sewage, drainage and
the like). When construction is not a part of the use, EXERCISED shall mean
that the use is in operation in compliance with the requirements set forth in
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.141  DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A plan clearly indicating the developer’s intention to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be submitted for approval.
   (B)   Such plans shall be drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to the
inch and shall show the following on one or more sheets that are either 15 by
18 inches or 20 by 24 inches in size:
      (1)   A site plan of the proposed mobile home park;
      (2)   The name of the mobile home park, the names and addresses of the
owner(s) and the designer of the park;
      (3)   Date, approximate north arrow and scale;
      (4)   The boundary lines of the tract with accurate linear and angular
dimensions drawn to scale;
      (5)   The locations of existing and platted property lines, streets,
buildings, watercourses, railroads, bridges, water mains, sewers, culverts,
drain pipes and any utility easements, both on the land to be developed into a
mobile home park and on land immediately adjoining. The names of adjoining
subdivisions or the names of record or owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land;
      (6)   The names, proposed location and approximate dimensions of proposed
streets, alleys, driveways, entrances, exits, walkways, easements, recreation
areas, parks and other spaces, reservations, mobile home spaces and building
lines within the park. This information should be graphically shown only. It is
not required to prepare detailed computations or field work above that required
to obtain the above information;
      (7)   Plans of proposed utility layouts (sewer lines, septic tank
drainfields, and water and storm drainage) showing feasible connections to
existing and proposed utility systems;
      (8)   Where public water and public sewer is not available, a written
statement from the County Environmental Health Department shall be submitted
with the mobile home park plans that indicate that the park has adequate land
area and suitable topography to accommodate the proposed methods of water
supply and sewage disposal;
      (9)   Location and number of garbage receptacles; and
      (10)   Plans for electric lighting.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.142  SPECIFICATIONS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home space. Each mobile home in a mobile home park shall occupy
a designated space having at least 7,000 square feet, and an average width of
at least 60 feet, exclusive of common driveways.
   (B)   Access drives. Each mobile home space shall abut a drive within the
park. Said drive shall be paved, to a width of 20 feet, in accordance with the
construction requirements of Section E, (Pavement Designs) of NCDOT publication
Subdivisions Roads, Minimum Construction Standards.
   (C)   Parking spaces. Two off-street driveway parking spaces (paved) on a
well compacted sub-base shall be provided for each mobile home space. Required
parking spaces shall be included within the 7,000 square feet required for each
mobile home space.
   (D)   Recreation area. At least 400 square feet of recreational space shall
be provided for each mobile home.
   (E)   Spacing. No mobile home or other structures within a mobile home park
shall be closer to each other than 35 feet, except that storage or other
auxiliary structures for the exclusive use of the mobile home may be closer to
that mobile home than 35 feet.
   (F)   Spacing from exterior boundary. No mobile home shall be located closer
than 30 feet to the exterior boundary of the park or a bounding street or
highway right-of-way. Buildings used for laundry or recreation purposes shall
be located no closer than 40 feet to the exterior boundary of the park or the
right-of-way of a boundary street or highway.
   (G)   Flood prevention. Mobile home parks shall be located on ground not
susceptible to flooding and graded so as to prevent any water from ponding or
accumulating on the premises.
   (H)   Lighting. All mobile home parks shall be adequately lighted.
   (I)   Tiedowns. All mobile homes shall have tiedowns, which comply with
North Carolina Regulations for Mobile Homes.
   (J)   Underpinning. All units shall be underpinned (skirted) by a solid,
non-flammable material.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.143  UTILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water. An adequate and safe supply of water shall be readily available
at each mobile home park space. Each mobile home park shall obtain water from a
public water supply when available, and when unavailable, from a source
approved by the County Environmental Health Department. The supply shall be
adequate for the park requirements. The drinking, cooking, laundry and general
bathroom water supply for each individual mobile home shall be obtained from
faucets or other plumbing connections located within each mobile home.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer.
      (1)   Each mobile home park shall be provided with an adequate sewage
disposal system, either by connecting to a public sewage system or septic tank
system approved by the County Environmental Health Department and/or State
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, Division of
Environmental Management.
      (2)   All sewage waste from toilets, showers, bathtubs, lavatories, wash
basins, refrigerator drains, sinks, faucets and water using appliances not
herein mentioned, shall be piped into the mobile home park sewage disposal
system.
   (C)   Electricity. Each mobile home located in a mobile home park shall be
provided with electricity sufficient enough to safely meet the maximum
anticipated requirements of a mobile home. All wiring connections from the
meter to mobile home must comply with the National Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.144  FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Garbage and trash containers. One covered garbage and trash container,
24- gallon maximum capacity, shall be provided for each mobile home; containers
shall be placed on racks which are approved by the County Environmental Health
Department; and such racks shall be located within the mobile home park at a
point which is readily accessible for collection. In lieu of requiring
individual garbage and trash containers for each mobile home, other approved
garbage and trash disposal facilities may be provided with the approval of the
Town Manager.
   (B)   Concrete pads. Each mobile home must be provided with a minimum ten
foot by ten foot concrete pad at the front entrance.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 156.155  CREATION.
   There shall be and is hereby created a Town Board of Adjustment, hereinafter
called the “Board.”
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.156  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of five members. Three of the members
shall be citizens and residents of the town and shall be appointed by the Town
Board of Commissioners; two of the members shall be citizens and residents of
the town’s extraterritorial area and shall be appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners. The members of the Board will serve staggered terms of three
years each with the exception of the initial appointment. The members shall
receive compensation for their service at a rate determined by the Town Board
of Commissioners. Two alternate members from the town and one alternate member
from the extraterritorial area may also be appointed. Since the Town Planning
Board has been designated to also function as the Town Board of Adjustment,
newly appointed Planning Board members automatically become members of the
Board of Adjustment. Terms of office of new Board of Adjustment members are
synchronous with their terms as Planning Board members. Extraterritorial and
town members have equal voting rights on any and all issues. Alternate members
shall be appointed for the same term, at the same time, and in the same manner
as regular members. Each alternate member, while attending any regular or
special meeting of the Board and serving on behalf of any regular member, shall
have and may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (B)   The Board shall have a Chairperson elected by its membership and shall
have a Secretary to keep appropriate records of the Board’s proceedings. The
Board shall adopt such procedural rules and regulations as it deems necessary.
All Board meetings shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or his or
her absence or failure to vote, indicating such fact, and also keep records of
its examination and any other official action. Unless it is stated that a
conflict of interest exists, the abstaining from voting by a present member
shall be considered as a “yes” vote, upholding the decision of the Ordinance
Administrator.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Adjustment shall not participate in or vote
on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
If an objection is raised to a member’s participation and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection.
   (D)   Town members of the Board may be removed by action of the Town Board
of Commissioners; extraterritorial members by action of the County Board of
Commissioners. Removal may be for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office, and such removal may only come after a public hearing concerning the
action to be held.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; appointment, see G.S.§ 160A-388(d)
   Board of Adjustment; voting, see G.S. § 160A-381(e1)
§ 156.157  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Procedure for appeals to the Board concerning the decisions of the Ordinance
Administrator, variances to the zoning regulations and establishment of
conditional uses in particular zoning districts:
   (A)   Appeals from the decisions of the Ordinance Administrator for the
granting of variances and for the establishment of conditional uses may be
taken to the Town Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved;
   (B)   Appeals to the decisions of the Ordinance Administrator shall be taken
up by the Board within 30 days of the first appeal;
   (C)   The Ordinance Administrator shall be the official recipient of all
appeals and shall transmit said appeals to the Secretary of the Board of
Adjustment within one week after receipt of said appeals;
   (D)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property or because the violation
charged is transitory in nature a stay would seriously interfere with
enforcement of the ordinance, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, issued by the Board of Adjustment or by
a court of record;
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold hearings at which specific
appeals shall be heard, notice of said hearings being made public in at least
two of the following ways:
         (a)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the
community;
         (b)   Posting signs concerning the hearing in the neighborhood which
is affected; or
         (c)   Sending written notices to all of the adjoining property owners.
      (2)   In any of the three methods of notice, each should contain the
time, date and place of the public hearing, and the property which will be
affected.
   (F)   The Board shall vote according to the procedures set forth in §
156.158 when instituting action to overrule the decisions of the Enforcement
Officer. Conditional use cases and variance cases shall require four out of
five members of the Board of Adjustment voting in favor of such action;
   (G)   Any appeals to the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be taken
to County Superior Court within 30 days, after the decision of the Board is
filed in the town hall or after a written copy thereof is delivered to the
appellant by personal service or registered mail, whichever is later; and
   (H)   There shall be a fee of $10 payable to the town to cover the costs of
administration and public hearing advertising for each, which the Board hears.
The fee will be payable when the appeal is instigated.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; special exceptions to the zoning regulations, see G.S.§
160A-388(d)
   Board of Adjustment; zoning; grant of power, see G.S. § 160A-381(b1)
§ 156.158  DECISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Adjustment to take action on
appeals to the decisions of the Ordinance Administrator; to hear and decide
upon applications for conditional uses for the various districts; and to hear
and decide upon the granting of variances in the various districts.
   (B)   In deciding any of the above, a four-fifths vote shall be required in
favor of the applicant, or to overrule the decision of the Ordinance
Administrator. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the Board
and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall
not be considered members of the Board for calculation of the requisite
majority.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; conditional use permits; special use permits, see G.S.
§ 160A-381(c)
   Board of Adjustment; special exceptions to the zoning regulations, see G.S.§
160A-388(d)
   Board of Adjustment; zoning; grant of power, see G.S. § 160A-381(b1)
§ 156.159  CONDITIONAL USES.
   When considering a conditional use for a certain district, the Board shall
make the following findings:
   (A)   The proposed use will not endanger the public health, safety and
welfare;
   (B)   The proposed use will not adversely affect surrounding properties in
terms of value; and
   (C)   The proposed use will meet all the applicable requirements specified
in this chapter that pertain to the use.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.160  VARIANCES.
   (A)   When practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship would result from
carrying out the strict letter of a zoning ordinance, the Board of Adjustment
shall have the power to vary or modify any of the regulations or provisions of
the ordinance so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public
safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. No change in
permitted uses may be authorized by variance. Appropriate conditions, which
must be reasonably related to the condition or circumstance that gives rise to
the need for a variance, may be imposed on any approval issued by the Board.
The Board of Adjustment may determine and vary their application in harmony
with their general purpose and intent and in accordance with general or
specific rules therein contained, provided no change in permitted uses may be
authorized by variance.
   (B)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of these regulations. This shall be
construed to mean:
            1.   If the property owner complies with the provisions of the
ordinance, he or she can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable
use of his or her property;
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the requirements
of the ordinance;
            3.   The hardship is suffered by the applicant’s property;
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the applicant’s own actions;
and
            5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property.
         (b)   That the variance would be in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this chapter and preserves its spirit;
         (c)   That in granting the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done; and
         (d)   That the reasons set forth in the application justify the
granting of a variance, and that the variance is the minimum one that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land or structure.
      (2)   Notice of public hearing shall be given as required by state
statute for quasi-judicial decision. At the public hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney;
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that all requirements
have been met for a variance;
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that the reasons set
forth in the application justify the granting of the variance and that the
variance is the minimum one that will make possible the reasonable use of the
land, building or structure;
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter and the land use plan, and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;
      (6)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under
which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter; and
      (7)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district involved.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty,
see §
156.999
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; special exceptions to the zoning regulations, see G.S.§
160A-388(d)
   Board of Adjustment; zoning; grant of power, see G.S. § 160A-381(b1)
AMENDMENTS
§ 156.175  AMENDMENTS; MOTION TO AMEND.
   (A)   Amendments. This chapter, including the zoning map, may be amended,
supplemented or changed from time to time according to the following procedures
in §§
156.175 through
156.181.
   (B)   Motion to amend. The Town Board of Commissioners may, from time to
time, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the boundaries or regulations
herein, or subsequently amended. Proposed changes or amendments may be
initiated by the Town Board, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment or by one or
more owners, optionees or lessees of property within the area proposed to be
changed or affected.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.176  PETITION FOR AMENDMENT.
   Written petitions from the public at large to amend this chapter shall be
directed to the Town Planning Board at least 20 days prior to the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board. The petition shall state the
nature of the proposed amendment, and, if applicable, a description of the
property involved, names and addresses of the owner(s) of the property, and a
statement why the proposed amendment is necessary to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare. Each petition for amendment submitted by one or
more owners, optionees or lessees of property within the town shall be
accompanied by a fee of $200 to defray the cost of advertising and other
administrative costs involved. The fee will be returned should the Town Board
decide not to consider the petition. Every application for amendment to rezone
land totaling ten acres or less shall be accompanied by a written statement
analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning. The Ordinance
Administrator may require that the applicant provide this statement.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Special use districts, see G.S. § 160A-382(b)
§ 156.177  PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND FINDING.
   (A)   All proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance or zoning map shall be
submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If no written report is
received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the amendment to
that Board, the Board of Commissioners may proceed in its consideration of the
amendment without the Planning Board report. The Board of Commissioners is not
bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with the intent of this chapter, with the land use plan
and with any other officially adopted plan that is applicable. The Planning
Board shall provide a written recommendation to the Board of Commissioners that
addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the
Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is
inconsistent with the land use plan shall not preclude consideration or
approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Members of the Planning Board shall not vote on any recommendation
regarding any zoning map or text amendment where the outcome of the matter
being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment; special exceptions to the zoning regulations, see G.S.§
160A-388(d)
   Planning Board; zoning plan; certification, see G.S. § 160A-387
   Zoning regulations; purpose in view, see G.S. § 160A-383
§ 156.178  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Should the Town Board decide to accept the petition for an amendment,
a public hearing shall be held by the Town Board of Commissioners. A notice of
such public hearing shall be given once a week for two consecutive calendar
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Such notice shall be
published the first time not less than ten days or more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of the
publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing shall be included.
Notice of public hearing shall be posted on the property in question not less
than ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing. The posted notice shall
be located on the site proposed for rezoning or on an adjacent public street or
highway right-of-way. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed
zoning map amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required, but
the town shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to
interested persons.
   (B)   Prior to a public hearing for any proposed map amendment, the owners
of all properties adjacent to the subject property shall be notified by first
class mail of the place, date, time and nature of the hearing. The person
mailing these notices shall certify in writing that he or she has done so;
provided, however, that the first class mail notice required under this section
shall not be required if the zoning map amendment directly affects more than 50
properties, owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners, and the
town elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this division
(B). In this instance, the town may elect either to make the mailed notice
provided for in this section or may as an alternative elect to publish notice
of the hearing as required by G.S. § 160A-364, but provided that each
advertisement shall not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in size. The
advertisement shall only be effective for property owners who reside in the
area of general circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice.
Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according
to the address listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected
property, shall be notified according to the provisions of this section for
first class mail notice.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Method of procedure, see G.S. § 160A-384
§ 156.179  PROTEST AGAINST AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Zoning ordinances may from time to time be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified or repealed. In case, however, of a qualified protest against
a zoning map amendment, that amendment shall not become effective except by
favorable vote of three-fourths of all the members of the Board of
Commissioners. Vacant positions on the Board of Commissioners and members who
are excused from voting shall not be considered members of the Board for
calculation of the requisite three-fourths supermajority.
   (B)   To qualify as a protest under this section, the petition must be
signed by the owners of either:
      (1)   Twenty percent or more of the area included in the proposed change;
or
      (2)   Five percent of a 100-foot wide buffer extending along the entire
boundary of each discrete or separate area proposed to be rezoned. A street
right-of-way shall not be considered in computing the 100-foot buffer area as
long as the street right-of-way is 100 feet wide or less. When less than an
entire parcel of land is subject to the proposed zoning map amendment, the 100-
foot buffer shall be measured from the property line of that parcel. In the
absence of evidence to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax
listing to determine the owners of potentially qualifying areas.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions concerning protests shall not be applicable
to any amendment which initially zones property added to the territorial
coverage of the chapter as a result of annexation or otherwise, or to an
amendment to an adopted:
      (1)   Special use district;
      (2)   Conditional use district; or
      (3)   Conditional district if the amendment does not change the types of
uses that are permitted within the district, or increase the approved density
for residential development, or increase the total approved size of
nonresidential development, or reduce the size of any buffers or screening
approved for the special use district, conditional use district or conditional
district.
   (D)   No protest against any change in or amendment to a zoning ordinance or
zoning map shall be valid or effective for the purposes of G.S. § 160A-385
unless it be in the form of a written petition actually bearing the signatures
of the requisite number of property owners and stating that the signers do
protest the proposed change or amendment, and unless it shall have been
received by the Town Clerk in sufficient time to allow the town at least two
normal work days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, before the
date established for a public hearing on the proposed change or amendment to
determine the sufficiency and accuracy of the petition. The Board of
Commissioners may by ordinance require that all protest petitions be on a form
prescribed and furnished by the town, and such form may prescribe any
reasonable information deemed necessary to permit the town to determine the
sufficiency and accuracy of the petition. A person who has signed a protest
petition may withdraw his or her name from the petition at any time prior to
the vote on the proposed zoning amendment. Only those protest petitions that
meet the qualifying standards set forth in G.S. § 160A-385 at the time of the
vote on the
zoning amendment shall trigger the supermajority voting requirement.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Changes; qualified protests, see G.S. § 160A-385(a)
   Protest petition; form; requirements; time for filing, see G.S. § 160A-386
§ 156.180  DENIAL OF PETITION.
   When a petition for amendment is denied by the Town Board, a period of 12
months must elapse before another petition for the same changes can be
submitted unless substantial amendments that would have affected the petition
have been adopted by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 7-5-2005; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.181  ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   A member of the Board of Commissioners shall not vote on any zoning
map or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member.
   (B)   Prior to adopting or rejecting any proposed zoning amendment, the
Board of Commissioners shall adopt a statement describing whether its action is
consistent with the intent of this chapter, with the land use plan or any other
adopted development plan, and explaining why the Board considers the action
taken to be reasonable and in the public interest.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 1-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Voting, see G.S. §§ 160A-381(d), 160A-75
   Zoning regulations; purpose in view, see G.S. § 160A-383
DUPLEX AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 156.195  INTENT.
   It is the intent of the town to allow a diverse mix of housing opportunities
for its citizens while protecting the health, safety and welfare of its
citizens and the property values of existing residential areas. No two-family
or multi-family structure shall be constructed nor shall the exterior of any
such structure be substantially modified from and after the effective date of
this section except that said modification be in conformance with the
provisions stated herein. For the purposes of this subchapter, SUBSTANTIAL
MODIFICATION shall be defined as any work which involves the alteration of the
building’s footprint or construction of additional stories.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.196  CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Adjustment shall issue a conditional use permit for
all two-family and multi-family developments that contain two or more
structures located on the same parcel or on separate parcels but that are
developed and planned together.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall issue a conditional use permit only
after having evaluated an application and having determined that:
      (1)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety if
located where proposed and developed according to plan;
      (2)   The use meets the all required conditions and specifications;
      (3)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or
abutting property or that the use is a public necessity;
      (4)   The location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located;
      (5)   The viability and character of the surrounding neighborhoods will
not be adversely impacted;
      (6)   The proposed use will serve in the town’s best interests and shall
substantially add to the quality and diversity of the town’s housing stock;
      (7)   The streets and driveways as proposed provide adequate circulation
for on-site and off-site vehicular movement; and
      (8)   The existing and/or proposed public infrastructure, including, but
not limited to, streets, water and sewer, is adequate to serve the site.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.197  SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information shall be submitted as part of a request for a
conditional use permit to develop a multi-family or two-family development;
   (A)   A boundary survey showing the total acreage, present zoning
classification(s), date and north arrow;
   (B)   The owner’s name, address and the tax parcel numbers of all adjoining
properties;
   (C)   All existing easements, rights-of-way and all yard requirements for
the zoning district;
   (D)   Proposed layout of the site and all structures. This shall include the
number of units, number of stories of each building, and location of all
doorways. Trash collection facilities as well as any common areas and
recreation areas shall also be shown;
   (E)   Traffic, parking and circulation plans, showing the proposed locations
and arrangement of parking spaces and access points to adjacent streets;
   (F)   Proposed screening and buffers, including walls, fences or planted
areas, as well as any natural features to be retained on the site;
   (G)   Delineation of areas within a designated flood hazard area;
   (H)   Proposed number and location of signs;
   (I)   Proposed phasing, if any, and approximate completion time of the
project;
   (J)   Approved driveway permit from the State Department of Transportation
for developments that access state maintained roads and highways; and
   (K)   Certifications that an approved water and sewer system can be provided
to service the project.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.198  DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. See § 156.122 for maximum density permitted in zoning
district.
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width for all two-family and multi-family
developments shall be 100 feet.
   (C)   Building setback lines. All principal buildings, excluding two-family
dwellings on their own lot and not developed with other two-family dwellings,
shall be located at least 50 feet from any property lines. Two-family dwellings
located on their own lot and not developed with other two-family dwellings
shall have the same minimum front and rear setbacks as single-family dwellings
located in the same district and minimum side setbacks that are one and one-
half times the minimum side setback of single-family dwellings located in the
same district.
   (D)   Building location. Buildings containing dwellings shall be set back a
minimum of 15 feet from internal driveways and parking areas.
   (E)   Building separation. A separation of at least 20 feet shall be
provided between all buildings on the same site.
   (F)   Building height. The maximum height for all structures in a two-family
or multi-family development shall be 35 feet.
   (G)   Screening and buffers. A visual screen and/or vegetative buffer shall
be provided in accordance with the requirements listed in §§
156.090 through
156.099.
   (H)   Control of potential nuisance uses. Mechanical equipment rooms, air
conditioning units or cooling towers, swimming pools, water filtration systems,
children’s play areas and sporting facilities shall not be placed within 50
feet of adjacent land used or anticipated to be used for single-family
residential.
   (I)   Internal relationships. All structures, uses and facilities shall be
grouped in a safe, efficient, convenient and harmonious relationship in order
to preserve desirable natural features and minimize disturbances to the natural
topography of the site.
   (J)   Interior circulation system.
      (1)   Streets, drives, parking areas shall provide safe and convenient
access to dwelling units.
      (2)   Specifically, streets and driveways shall be laid out to not
encourage outside traffic to traverse the development on minor streets and
streets should not create unnecessary fragmentation of the development into
small blocks.
   (K)   Vehicular access to public roads. When possible, vehicular access to a
public road from off-street parking or service areas shall be so combined,
limited, located, designed and controlled as to channel traffic to and from
such areas in a manner which minimizes the number of access points and promotes
the free flow of traffic on streets without excessive interruption.
   (L)   Signs. Signage shall be permitted in accordance with the sign
regulations listed in §§
156.045 through
156.056.
   (M)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the parking requirements listed in §§
156.070 through
156.076.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-10, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS
§ 156.210  CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In the RA, R-20 and R-8 districts, an owner of real property totaling
20 or more contigu ous acres in area, and having existin g direct access to
public water and sewera ge, may apply to the Board of Adjustment for a
conditional use permit to create a planned conservation subdivision.
Conservation subdivisions are characterized by dedicated common open space and
clustered compact lots. The purpose of a conservation subdivision is to protect
farmland, open space and/or natural resources and features, and to provide for
a viable and attractive alternative housing environment with the same maximum
number of residences, consolidated infrastructure and reduced development
costs.
[Image]
A Typical Existing Rural Landscape
   (B)     The conserva tion subdivisi on (also known as rural cluster
development ) option provides property owners a way to subdivide their land
while substantial ly retaining its rural character and scenic beauty, and
preserving open space and environmentally significant areas. This option
permits clustered residential lots in exchange for the preservation of
significant open space features. For example, a conventional development might
subdivide a ten-acre tract into ten one-acre lots. Using the conservation
subdivision option, those same ten homes might be placed on half-acre lots,
with the remaining five acres being permanently preserved as open space.
Development costs for roads and other amenities are decreased, while new
residents and the community benefit from the preservation of open space in
environmentally sensitive areas. The illustrations on the next page provide a
comparison between conventional large lot subdivisions and the conservation
subdivision option.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f85b06f3eb9be31d95e05fc5e1bfddd6e0c36f3d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1296.jpg]
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.211  PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall review submitted plans for proposed
conservation subdivisions and shall issue or deny conditional use permits for
such development. The property owner shall submit plans to the Zoning
Administrator for any proposed conservation subdivision, accompanied by a
preliminary plat of the property as required by the Subdivision Ordinance. The
Zoning Administrator shall determine that all required materials have been
submitted and shall forward the completed application to the Board of
Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall follow quasijudicial procedures for
public notification, hearing and findings as provided for conditional uses in §
156.255. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall find:
      (1)   Lot size and yard requirements may be reduced by no more than one-
half and maximum lot coverage may be increased by no more than twice the
requirements of §
156.122. In no case shall overall housing density in the development exceed the
normal density requirements of the district; nor shall any use be permitted in
such a development that is not otherwise permitted in the district.
      (2)   Additional infrastructural requirements:
         (a)   Public water and sewer connections shall be planned, platted and
made available to each building lot.
         (b)   Each building lot shall adjoin an internal street or existing
public roadway on at least one side. Street frontage shall total at least 20%
of the perimeter of the lot.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be installed along the entire length of internal
streets on any side where building lots face the street.
      (3)   Dedicated open space shall be contiguous or divided into no more
than two sections and shall include at least 30% of the total area of the land.
The requirement of this section for open space is in addition to any provision
in the subdivision regulations of the town for land set aside for recreation,
open space or for land considered unsuitable for platting.
      (4)   Common open space shall be restricted in perpetuity from further
subdivision and/or land development by deed restriction, conservation easement
or other agreement in a form acceptable to the Town Board upon recommendation
of the Town Attorney and duly recorded in the office of the County Register of
Deeds.
      (5)   A plan and narrative for the use, maintenance and insurance of the
open space and all common facilities, including provisions for funding, shall
be included with the application for a special use permit. Such plan shall:
         (a)   Define ownership, as one of the following:
            1.   The original owner may retain ownership of the open space and
common facilities and dedicate a conservation easement to a land trust or other
public entity. The owner may use the land for farming, excluding livestock
feeding or grazing, or for recreational purposes that do not disturb the
natural setting.
            2.   The open space and common facilities may be deeded to a
homeowners association, which may manage the common uses, recreational or
otherwise, and preservation of the space.
            3.   The open space and common facilities may be held as common
property, and a partial interest deeded with each of the building lots.
         (b)   Establish appropriate regular and periodic operation and
maintenance responsibilities.
         (c)   Estimate staffing needs, insurance requirements and other
associated costs and define the means for funding the same on an on-going
basis.
         (d)   At the discretion of the Board of Adjustment, the applicant may
be required to escrow sufficient funds for the maintenance and operation costs
of common facilities for up to one year.
      (6)   If allowed by the topography and shape of the land, each proposed
building lot in the subdivision shall have at least 25% of its boundary either
adjacent to the required open space, or directly facing the open space across
an internal street in the subdivision. After receiving evidence, the Board of
Adjustment shall determine on a case-by-case basis which lots, if any, may be
excused from this requirement. Preservation of valuable natural or historic
features present on the property may also be grounds for exception.
      (7)   The Board of Adjustment should encourage close proximity to other
similar development.
      (8)   The Board of Adjustment may impose other conditions on granting of
the conditional use permit at its discretion, including, but not limited to:
provisions for additional utilities, drainage, other physical improvements,
landscaping, lighting, streets and access ways, safety, and compatibility of
appearance and design.
   (B)   When the Board of Adjustment has granted a conditional use permit for
a conservation subdivision, the subdivision review and approval process may
continue as provided in the Subdivision Ordinance, with approval of the
preliminary plat and permission for the owner to begin site improvements.
   (C)   In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the open space
fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the
town may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises
and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance.
The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner(s), homeowner’s
association, or to the individual property owners that make up the homeowner’s
association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs
shall become a lien on all subdivision properties.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 156.225  LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Where the owner of a lot of record in any residential district at the
time of the adoption of this chapter, or his or her successor in title thereto,
does not own sufficient contiguous land to enable him or her to conform to the
minimum lot size requirements of this chapter, such a lot may be used as a
residential building site.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more adjoining vacant
lots of record are in single ownership at any time after the adoption of this
chapter and such lots individually have less area or width than the minimum
requirements of the district in which such lots are located, such lots shall be
considered as a single lot or several lots which meet the minimum requirements
of this chapter for the district in which such lots are located.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.226  FRONT YARD FOR DWELLING.
   (A)   The front yard requirements of this chapter for dwellings shall not
apply to any lot where the average setback of existing buildings located wholly
or partially within 100 feet on either side of the proposed dwelling and on the
same side of the street in the same block and use district as such lot is less
than the minimum required front yard depth.
   (B)   In such case the front yard on such lots may be less than the required
front yard but not less than the average of the existing front yard on the
aforementioned lots, or a distance of ten feet from the street right-of-way,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.227  HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Church spires;
   (B)   Belfries;
   (C)   Cupolas;
   (D)   Domes not intended for human occupancy;
   (E)   Monuments;
   (F)   Water towers;
   (G)   Observation towers;
   (H)   Transmission towers;
   (I)   Television towers;
   (J)   Masts;
   (K)   Aerials; and
   (L)   Similar structures.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 156.240  NEW USES OR CONSTRUCTION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, all new construction shall conform
to the use, area and bulk regulations for the district in which it is to be
located.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.241  CONFORMING USES.
   After the effective date of this chapter, land or structures, or the uses of
land or structures which conform to the regulations for the district in which
it is located, may be continued, provided that any structural alteration or
change in use shall conform with the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.242  CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   After the effective date of this chapter, land, lots or structures, or the
uses of land, lots or structures which would be prohibited under the
regulations for the district in which it is located, shall be considered as
nonconforming. Such nonconformities may continue if uninterrupted; provided,
however, that if a nonconforming use or building is abandoned, vacated or
otherwise discontinued for a period of more than 180 days, any future use or
development of the land or building shall be in conformity with all provisions
of this chapter.
   (A)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   Minimum single lot requirements. Where the owner of a lot at the
time of the adoption of this chapter, or his or her successor in title thereto,
does not own sufficient land to enable him or her to conform to the dimensional
requirements of this chapter, such lot may be used as a building site for a
single-family residence with related accessory buildings in a district in which
residences are permitted. There shall be no alteration of the minimum yard
requirements on such lot except where the Town Board of Adjustment finds, after
a public hearing, that the values of the neighboring properties would not be
unduly depreciated nor would the public safety or welfare be impaired by such
action.
      (2)   Minimum multi-lot requirements. If two or more adjoining and vacant
lots of record are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption of this
chapter, such lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots which
meet the minimum requirements of this chapter for the district in which such
lots are located. No portion of said parcel shall be used or sold which does
not meet the area and width requirements established by this chapter, nor shall
any division of the parcel be made which leaves any lot remaining with width or
area below the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses of land and/or buildings.
      (1)   Nonconforming use of land or structure shall not hereafter be
enlarged or extended in any way.
      (2)   Any nonconforming uses of land or structure may be changed to any
conforming use or with the approval of the Board of Adjustment to any use or
structure more in character with the uses permitted in the district. In
permitting such change, the Board of Adjustment may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should any nonconforming structure or use of land be moved for any
reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the district in which it is relocated.
      (4)   Normal maintenance, repair and incidental alteration in a building
occupied by a nonconforming use are permitted provided it does not extend the
nonconforming use.
      (5)   If a building occupied by a nonconforming use or nonconforming
building is destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 80% of its
appraised value for tax purposes at the time of destruction, such building may
not be restored for any nonconforming use.
      (6)   Class C manufactured homes (pre-July 1, 1976) located on individual
lots in the R6 MH and RA Districts may continue as nonconforming uses;
replacement of such shall be either Class A or Class B manufactured homes (July
1, 1976 or newer singlewides, doublewides or triplewides).
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. O-2006-09, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 156.255  DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, TOWN BOARD AND
COURTS AS TO ENFORCEMENT AND MATTERS OF APPEAL.
   It is the intention of this chapter that all questions arising in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter shall be presented first to the Ordinance
Administrator and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of
Adjustment only on appeal from the Ordinance Administrator, and that from the
decision of the Board of Adjustment recourse shall be had to courts as provided
by law. It is further the intention of this chapter that the duties of the Town
Board in connection with the chapter shall not include the hearing and passing
upon disputed questions that may arise in connection with the enforcement
thereof, but that the procedure for determining such questions shall be as
herein set out in the chapter, and that the duties of the Town Board in
connection with this chapter, shall be only the duty of considering and passing
upon any proposed amendment or repeal of the chapter as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.256  ADMINISTRATOR.
   The position of Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby created for the purpose
of enforcement of this zoning chapter. The Enforcement Officer shall be
appointed by the Town Board, the length of term and compensation being
determined by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.257  ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   After the adoption of these zoning regulations, it shall be unlawful
for any person to erect, move or alter any structures, or to begin, extend,
move or enlarge any use of the land, in the zoning jurisdiction of the town
unless that person has been issued a zoning permit for the specific purpose
found in this chapter.
   (B)   Such permit shall be made on a cardboard substance 12 inches by 12
inches in size, and shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the particular
parcel of land which is being affected by the permit.
   (C)   A written record of the issuance of such a permit shall be kept on
file in the office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer; the permit shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person who has applied for the permit;
      (2)   The street address of the property affected by the permit;
      (3)   The proposed action to be taken by the petitioner of the permit;
and
      (4)   The date, seal and signature of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   No zoning permit shall be issued unless the provisions of this chapter
have been adhered to, or unless the Board of Adjustment rules otherwise in
writing.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.258  ZONING PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a zoning permit shall be made to the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The application shall consist of the submission of the plan of the
site in duplicate showing the following information:
      (1)   The actual shape and dimensions of the lot or parcel which is to be
developed;
      (2)   The exact sizes of all proposed and existing buildings within the
site and surrounding it for 50 feet on all sides drawn to scale;
      (3)   The location of the parcel with reference to existing and proposed
rights-of-way;
      (4)   The areas that are set aside for off-street parking and off-street
loading as such facilities are required by this chapter;
      (5)   Any other information which the Zoning Enforcement Officer may deem
necessary for his or her consideration in enforcing this chapter; and
      (6)   The nature of the proposed use of the building or land, including
the extent and location of the use on said lot.
   (C)   After the Zoning Enforcement Officer has checked the application
against the provisions of this chapter and found said application to be in
conformity, he or she shall issue a zoning permit to the applicant.
   (D)   Upon issuance of the zoning permit, the applicant will receive one
copy of the site plan, the other being retained by the Ordinance Administrator.
   (E)   At this time the applicant will pay all applicable fees to cover
administrative costs.
   (F)   If the application for a zoning permit is denied by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, the applicant may appeal the action to the Town Board of
Adjustment in writing within 30 days of the Zoning Enforcement Officer’s
decision.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.259  CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon the completion of a structure for which a zoning permit has been
issued, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall go into the field and check to see
that the provisions of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   The certificate of compliance shall indicate that the developer has
complied with the provisions of this chapter in reference to the property and
action described on the zoning permit.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.270  INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with other
requirements of lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions or covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the highest
standards, shall govern.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.271  VALIDITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid by the
courts, such decision shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole,
or any other part thereof, other than the part so declared invalid.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.272  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption
by the Board of Commissioners of the town on September 3, 1986.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
§ 156.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
exceeding $50 or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days. Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1986; Ord. passed 5-6-2008)
CHAPTER 157:  WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
157.01   Purpose and legislative intent
   
157.02   Severability
   
157.03   Definitions
   
157.04   Overall procedure and desired outcomes for approving and issuing
permits for wireless telecommunications facilities
   
157.05   Exceptions from a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities
   
157.06   Exclusions
   
157.07   Special use permit application and other requirements for a new
wireless telecommunications facility or for increasing the footprint height
profile or number of co-locations of the structure to be attached to
   
157.08   Requirements for an application for the first antenna to be attached
to an approved wireless telecommunications structure within the parameters of
an approved special use permit
   
157.09   Streamlined requirements for an application to co-locate on an
existing telecommunications facility within the parameters of an approved
special use permit
   
157.10   Location of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
157.11   Shared use of wireless telecommunications facilities structures
   
157.12   Type and height of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
157.13   Visibility of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
157.14   Security of wireless telecommunications facilities
   
157.15   Signage
   
157.16   Setbacks
   
157.17   Retention of expert assistance cost to be borne by applicant
   
157.18   Procedural requirements for a special use permit
   
157.19   Action on an application for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities
   
157.20   Extent and parameters of special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities
   
157.21   Application fee
   
157.22   Removal and performance security
   
157.23   Reservation of authority to inspect wireless telecommunications
facilities
   
157.24   Liability insurance
   
157.25   Indemnification
   
157.26   Fines
   
157.27   Default and/or revocation
   
157.28   Removal of wireless telecommunications structures and facilities
   
157.29   Relief
   
157.30   Periodic regulatory review by the town
   
157.31   Adherence to state and/or federal rules and regulations
   
157.32   Bi-annual meeting
   
157.33   Conflict with other laws
   
157.34   Authority
§ 157.01  PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   The Telecommunications Act of 1996 affirmed the town’s authority
concerning the placement, construction and modification of wireless
telecommunications facilities. North Carolina General Statutes governing the
regulation of wireless telecommunication facilities, G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19,
Part 3E, provide for the safe and efficient integration of facilities necessary
for the provision of advanced wireless telecommunications services throughout
the community and to ensure the ready availability of reliable wireless
services to the public, government agencies and first responders, with the
intention of furthering the public safety and general welfare.
   (B)   The town finds that wireless telecommunications facilities may pose
significant concerns to the health, safety, public welfare, character and
environment of the town and its inhabitants. The town also recognizes that
facilitating the development of wireless service technology can be an economic
development asset to the town and of significant benefit to the town and its
residents. In order to assure that the placement, construction or modification
of wireless telecommunications facilities is consistent with the town’s land
use policies, the town is adopting a single, comprehensive, wireless
telecommunications facilities application and permitting process. The intent of
this chapter is to minimize the physical impact of wireless telecommunications
facilities on the community, protect the character of the community to the
extent reasonably possible, establish a fair and efficient process for review
and approval of applications, assure an integrated, comprehensive review of
environmental impacts of such facilities, and protect the health, safety and
welfare of the town.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.02  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, division or other
portion of this chapter or any application thereof to any person or
circumstance is declared void, unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, then
such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, division or other portion, or the
proscribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining
provisions of this chapter, and all applications thereof, not having been
declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and
effect.
   (B)   Any special use permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
comprehensive and not severable. If part of a permit is deemed or ruled to be
invalid or unenforceable in any material respect, by a competent authority, or
is overturned by a competent authority, the permit shall be void in total, upon
determination by the town.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY FACILITY OR STRUCTURE.  An accessory facility or structure serving
or being used in conjunction with wireless telecommunications facilities, and
located on the same property or lot as the wireless telecommunications
facilities, including but not limited to, utility or transmission equipment
storage sheds or cabinets.
   AMEND or AMENDED.  Any change in an application made subsequent to the
submission of the application from that which was originally submitted,
regardless of the reason.
   ANTENNA.  A system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves or radio frequency or other wireless signals.
   APPLICANT.  Any wireless service provider submitting an application for a
special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
   APPLICATION.  All necessary and required documentation that an applicant
submits in order to receive a special use permit or a building permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities.
   BOARD.  The Board of Commissioners.
   CO-LOCATION.  The use of an approved telecommunications structure to support
antenna for the provision of wireless services.
   COMMERCIAL IMPRACTICABILITY or COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE.  The  inability
to perform an act on terms that are reasonable in commerce, the cause or
occurrence of which could not have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen and
that jeopardizes the financial efficacy of the project. The inability to
achieve a satisfactory financial return on investment or profit, standing alone
and for a single site, shall not deem a situation to be COMMERCIALLY
IMPRACTICABLE and shall not render an act or the terms of an agreement
COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE.
   COMPLETED APPLICATION.  An application that contains all necessary and
required information and/or data necessary to enable an informed decision to be
made with respect to an application.
   DAS or DISTRIBUTIVE ACCESS SYSTEM.  A technology using antenna combining
technology allowing for multiple carriers or wireless service providers to use
the same set of antennas, cabling or fiber optics.
   FAA.  The Federal Aviation Administration or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   HEIGHT.  When referring to a tower or structure, the distance measured from
the pre-existing grade level to the highest point on the tower or structure,
even if the highest point is an antenna or lightening protection device.
   MAINTENANCE.  Plumbing, electrical or mechanical work that may require a
building permit but that does not constitute a modification to the WTF.
   MODIFICATION or MODIFY.  The addition, removal or change of any of the
physical and visually discernable components or aspects of a wireless facility,
such as antennas, cabling, equipment shelters, landscaping, fencing, utility
feeds, changing the color or materials of any visually discernable components,
vehicular access, parking and/or an upgrade or change-out of equipment for
better or more modern equipment. Adding a new wireless carrier or service
provider to a telecommunications tower or telecommunications site as a co-
location is a modification.
   NECESSARY.  What is technologically required for the equipment to function
as designed by the manufacturer and that anything less will result in
prohibiting or acting in a manner that prohibits the provision of service as
intended and described in the narrative of the application. NECESSARY does not
mean what may be desired or preferred technically.
   NIER.  Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY.  See WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES (PWS) or PERSONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
(PTS).  The same meaning as defined and used in the 1996 Telecommunications
Act.
   REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.  The replacement or repair of any components of a
wireless facility where the replacement is identical to the component being
replaced or for any matters that involve the normal repair and maintenance of a
wireless facility without the addition, removal or change of any of the
physical or visually discernable components or aspects of a wireless facility
that will add to the visible appearance of the facility as originally
permitted.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT.  The official document or permit by which an applicant
is allowed to file for a building permit to construct and use wireless
telecommunications facilities as granted or issued by the town.
   STEALTH or STEALTH TECHNOLOGY.  A design or treatment that minimizes adverse
aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property, buildings and other
facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the same area as the
requested location of such wireless telecommunications facilities, which shall
mean building the least visually and physically intrusive facility that is not
technologically or commercially impracticable under the facts and
circumstances. STEALTH TECHNOLOGY includes such technology as DAS or its
functional equivalent or camouflage where the tower is disguised to make it
less visually obtrusive and not recognizable to the average person as a WTF.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  The transmission and/or reception of audio, video, data
and other information by wire, radio frequency, light and other electronic or
electromagnetic systems.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE.  See WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE.  A structure used in the provision of services
described in the definition of WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   TEMPORARY.  Temporary in relation to all aspects and components of this
chapter, something intended to, or that does, exist for fewer than 90 days.
   TOWER.  Any structure designed primarily to support an antenna for receiving
and/or transmitting a wireless signal.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY OR FACILITIES (WTF or WTFSV).  Includes
a telecommunications site and personal wireless facility and means a structure,
facility or location designed, or intended to be used as, or used to support
antennas or other transmitting or receiving devices. This includes without
limit, towers of all types, kinds and structures, including, but not limited to
buildings, church steeples, silos, water towers, signs or other structures that
can be used as a support structure for antennas or the functional equivalent of
such. It further includes all related facilities and equipment such as cabling,
equipment shelters and other structures associated with the facility. It is a
structure and facility intended for transmitting and/or receiving radio,
television, cellular, SMR, paging, 911, personal communications services (PCS),
commercial satellite services, microwave services and any commercial wireless
telecommunication service not licensed by the FCC.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.04  OVERALL PROCEDURE AND DESIRED OUTCOMES FOR APPROVING AND ISSUING
PERMITS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   In order to ensure that the placement, construction and modification of
wireless telecommunications facilities protects the town’s health, safety,
public welfare, environmental features, the nature and character of the
community and neighborhood and other aspects of the quality of life
specifically listed elsewhere in this section, the town hereby adopts an
overall procedure with respect to the review, approval and issuance of permits
for wireless telecommunications facilities for the express purpose of achieving
the following outcomes:
   (A)   Requiring a special use permit for any new, co-location or
modification of a wireless telecommunications facility as required or otherwise
specified in this section;
   (B)   Implementing an application process for person(s) seeking approval of
wireless telecommunications facilities;
   (C)   Establishing a procedure for examining an application and issuing a
special use permit and/or building permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities that is both fair and consistent:
   (D)   Promoting, and requiring wherever possible, the sharing and/or co-
location of wireless telecommunications facilities among service providers;
   (E)   Requiring, promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the
placement, height and quantity of wireless telecommunications facilities in
such a manner as to minimize the physical and visual impact on the community,
including but not limited to the use of stealth technology; and
   (F)   In approving a wireless telecommunications facility, the town shall
find that the facility shall be the most appropriate site in regards to being
the least visually intrusive among those available in the town given the facts
and circumstances.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.05  EXCEPTIONS FROM A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to site, place, build, construct, modify
or prepare any site for the placement or use of a wireless telecommunications
facility as of the effective date of this chapter without having first obtained
a special use permit and building permit for a wireless telecommunications
facility as defined in §
157.10 of this chapter or an administratively granted authorization (building
permit) as defined in §
157.08 of this chapter, whichever is applicable. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this section, no special use permit shall be required for those
non-commercial exceptions noted in §
157.06, unless deemed in the public interest by the town.
   (B)   If constructed as required by permit, all legally permitted wireless
telecommunications facilities that existed on or before the effective date of
this chapter shall be allowed to continue as they presently exist, provided
however, that they are operating as originally permitted and that any
modification of an existing wireless telecommunications facility not permitted
under this chapter will require the complete facility and any new installation
to comply with this chapter, as will anything changing the structural load.
   (C)   Any repair and maintenance of a wireless telecommunications facility
that does not increase the height of the structure, alter the profile, increase
the footprint or otherwise exceed the conditions of the special use permit does
not require an application for a special use permit but may require a building
permit. However, no additional construction or site modification shall be
considered to be repair or maintenance.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.06  EXCLUSIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from this chapter:
   (A)   Any facilities expressly exempt from the town’s siting, building and
permitting authority.
   (B)   Any reception or transmission devises expressly exempted under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   (C)   Facilities used exclusively for private, non-commercial radio and
television reception and private citizen's bands, licensed amateur radio and
other similar non-commercial telecommunications.
   (D)   Facilities used exclusively for providing unlicensed spread spectrum
technologies, such as IEEE 802.1 la, b, g services (such as, Wi-fi and
Bluetooth) where the facility does not require a new tower or increase the
height of the structure being attached to.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.07  SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR A NEW
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY OR FOR INCREASING THE FOOTPRINT HEIGHT
PROFILE OR NUMBER OF CO-LOCATIONS OF THE STRUCTURE TO BE ATTACHED TO.
   All applicants for a special use permit for new wireless telecommunications
facilities including new towers or support structures or that otherwise
increases the footprint, height, profile or number of co-locations or any
modification of such facility beyond the conditions of an approved special use
permit shall comply with the requirements set forth in this chapter. The Town
Board of Commissioners is the officially designated agency or body of the town
to whom applications for a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities must be made, and that is authorized to review, analyze, evaluate
and make decisions with respect to granting or not granting or revoking special
use permits for wireless telecommunications facilities. The Board may at its
discretion delegate or designate the Town Planning Board or other official
agencies or officials of the town or outside consultants to accept, review,
analyze, evaluate and make recommendations to the Board with respect to the
granting or not granting or revoking special use permits for wireless
telecommunications facilities. However, outside consultants shall have no
authority to make or change policy for the town.
   (A)   All applicants shall closely follow the instructions for preparing an
application for a wireless telecommunications facility prior to the submittal
of an application for a special use permit not closely following the
instructions without permission to deviate from such shall result in a tolling
of the otherwise required 45-day notification period until the receipt of a
complete and properly completed application. The applicant shall be notified in
writing within 45 days of submission of an application as to the completeness
of the wireless telecommunications facility application and any deficiencies.
An amended application shall be required to correct any deficiencies.
   (B)   When placing wireless facilities on government-owned property or
facilities, only noncommercial wireless carriers and users are exempt from the
permitting requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The town may deny applications not meeting the requirements stated
herein or which are otherwise not complete in the event the application is
denied, the portion of the wireless telecommunications facility application fee
remaining from the retainer shall be refunded, but the special use permit
application fee is not refundable.
   (D)   No wireless telecommunications facilities shall be installed,
constructed or modified until the application is reviewed and approved by the
Board, the special use permit has been approved and a building permit has been
issued.
   (E)   Any and all representations made by the applicant to the Board on the
record during the application process, whether written or verbal, shall be
deemed to have been relied upon in good faith by the town. Any verbal
representation shall be treated as if it were made in writing.
   (F)   An application for a special use permit for a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be signed on behalf of the applicant by the
person vested with the authority to bind and commit the applicant to the
conditions of the special use permit and the person preparing the same and with
knowledge of the contents and representations made therein and attesting to the
truth and completeness of the information.
   (G)   The applicant must provide documentation to verify it has the right to
proceed as proposed on the site. This requires an executed copy of the lease
with the landowner or landlord or a signed letter of agency acknowledging
authorization. If the applicant owns the site, a copy of the ownership record
is required.
   (H)   The applicant shall include a statement in writing:
      (1)   That the applicant’s proposed wireless telecommunications facility
shall be maintained in a safe manner and in compliance with all conditions of
the special use permit, without exception, unless specifically granted relief
by the Board in writing, as well as all applicable and permissible local codes,
ordinances and regulations, including any and all applicable town, state and
federal laws, rules and regulations; and
      (2)   That the construction of the wireless telecommunications facility
is legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that the
applicant is authorized to do business in the state.
   (I)   Where a certification is called for in this section, such
certification shall bear the signature and seal of a professional engineer
licensed in the state.
   (J)   In addition to all other required information as stated in this
chapter, all applications for the construction or installation of new wireless
telecommunications facilities or modification of an existing facility shall
contain the information hereinafter set forth prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
      (1)   Ownership and management.
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
application;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the properly owner and the
applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If the owner of the
structure is different than the applicant, the name and all necessary contact
information shall be provided;
         (c)   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
         (d)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities;
         (e)   Written acknowledgment that any new telecommunications tower
shall be structurally designed to accommodate a minimum of six antenna arrays
and shall be managed so as not to restrict, prevent or prohibit competition
among carriers;
         (f)   The applicant shall disclose in writing any agreement in
existence prior to submission of the application that would limit or preclude
the ability of the applicant to share any new telecommunication tower that it
constructs;
      (2)   Zoning and planning.
         (a)   The Zoning District or designation in which the property is
situated;
         (b)   The size of the property footprint on which the structure to be
built or attached is located, stated both in square feet and lot line
dimensions, and a survey showing the location of all lot lines;
         (c)   The location, size and height of all existing and proposed
structures on the property on which the structure is located and that is the
subject of the application;
         (d)   A site plan showing the footprint and the type, location and
dimensions of access drives, landscaping and buffers, fencing and any other
requirements of site plans;
         (e)   Elevations showing the profile or the vertical rendition of the
wireless telecommunications facility identifying proposed attachments and all
related fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus, including the height
above the preexisting grade, materials, colors and lighting;
         (f)   When considering a modification to an existing wireless
telecommunications facility, provide all users and attachments to the facility,
including all related fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus,
including height above pre-existing grade, materials, color and lighting;
         (g)   Azimuth, size and center line height location of all proposed
and existing antennas on the supporting structure;
         (h)   The type and design of the wireless telecommunications facility,
the number of antenna arrays proposed and the basis for the calculations of the
wireless telecommunications facility’s capacity to accommodate the required
number of antenna arrays for which the structure must be designed;
         (i)   The applicant shall disclose in writing any agreement in
existence prior to submission of the application that would limit or preclude
the ability of the applicant to share any new telecommunication tower that it
constructs;
      (3)   Safety.
         (a)   If modifying an existing wireless telecommunications facility:
            1.   The age of the facility in years, including the date of the
grant of the original permit;
            2.   A description of the type of tower, such as, guyed, self-
supporting lattice or monopole;
            3.   The make, model, type and manufacturer of the facility and the
structural design calculations, certified by a professional engineer licensed
in the state, proving the facility’s capability to safely accommodate the
facilities of the applicant without change or modification or if any change or
modification of the facility is needed, a detailed narrative explaining what
changes are needed, why they are needed and who will be responsible to assure
that the changes are made;
            4.   A copy of the installed foundation design, as well as a
geotechnical sub-surface soils investigation, evaluation report and foundation
recommendation for the tower site or other structure;
            5.   For a tower that is five years old or older, or for a guyed
tower that is three years old or older, a copy of the latest ANSI report done
pursuant to the latest edition of ANSI-EIA/TIA 222F - Annex E for any self-
supporting tower. If an ANSI report has not been done pursuant to the preceding
schedule, an ANSI report shall be done and submitted as part of the
application. No building permit shall be issued for any wireless facility where
the structure being attached to is in need of remediation, unless and until all
remediation work needed has been completed or a schedule for the remediation
work has been approved by the Town Planning Department;
         (b)   A structural report signed by a professional engineer licensed
to do business in the state and bearing that engineer’s currently valid stamp,
showing the structural adequacy of the proposed structure to accommodate the
proposed wireless telecommunications facility, including any equipment shelter,
unless the equipment shelter is located on the lowest floor of a building;
         (c)   If attaching to a structure other than a tower or where the
proposed attachment is within 30 feet of areas to which the public has or could
reasonably have or gain access to, documentation shall be provided, including
all calculations, proving that the potential exposure to RF radiation (such as,
NEER or non-ion emitting radiation), will be in compliance with the most recent
Federal Communications Commission regulations governing RF radiation and
exposure thereto, and further denoting the minimum distance from any antennas
an individual may safely stand without being exposed to RF radiation in excess
of the FCC’s permitted standards and any portion(s) of the structure that would
be exposed to RF radiation in excess of the FCC’s permitted standards . In
compliance with the FCC’s regulations, in such an instance the RF radiation
from all wireless facilities at that location shall be included in the
calculations to show the cumulative effect on any area of the building or
structure deemed accessible by the public or workers. Such report or analysis
shall be signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the state; or
         (d)   In an instance involving a tower where the new wireless
facilities will be ten meters or more above ground level and not within 30 feet
of areas to which the public has or could reasonably have or gain access to,
signed documentation such as the FCC’s Checklist to Determine Whether a
Facility May Be Categorically Excluded shall be provided to verify that the
wireless telecommunication facility with the proposed installation will be in
full compliance with the current FCC’s RF emissions regulations. If not
categorically excluded, a complete RF emissions study is required to enable
verification of compliance, including providing all calculations so that such
may be verified prior to issuance of a building permit;
         (e)   In certain instances, the town may deem it appropriate to have
an RF survey of the facility done after the construction or modification and
activation of the facility, such to be done under the direction of the town or
its designee, and an un-redacted copy of the survey results provided, along
with all calculations prior to issuance of a certificate of compliance;
         (f)   If any section or portion of the structure to be attached to is
not in compliance with the FCC’s regulations regarding RF radiation, that
section or portion must be barricaded with a suitable barrier to discourage
approaching into the area in excess of the FCC’s regulations, and be marked off
with yellow and black plastic chain and striped warning tape, as well as
placing RF radiation signs as needed and appropriate to warn individuals of the
potential danger; or
         (g)   A signed statement that the applicant will expeditiously remedy
any physical or RF interference with other telecommunications or wireless
devices or services.
   (K)   The applicant will provide a written copy of an analysis, completed by
a qualified individual or organization, to determine if the proposed wireless
telecommunications facility is in compliance with Federal Aviation
Administration Regulation Part 77 and if it requires lighting. This requirement
shall also be for any where the application increases the height of the
wireless telecommunications facility. If this analysis determines that an FAA
determination is required, then all filings with the FAA, all responses from
the FAA and any related correspondence shall be provided with the application.
   (L)   Application for new wireless telecommunications facility versus co-
location.
      (1)   The applicant shall be required to submit a written report
demonstrating its meaningful efforts to secure shared use of existing wireless
telecommunications facilities or the use of alternative buildings or other
structures within the town that are at or above the surrounding tree height or
the tallest obstruction and are within one mile of the proposed tower. Copies
of written requests and responses for shared use shall be provided to the town
in the application, along with any letters of rejection stating the reason for
rejection.
      (2)   Telecommunications towers shall be prohibited in Residential
Districts, Historic Districts or Renaissance Districts, unless the applicant
provides documentation (such as, clear and convincing evidence) to demonstrate
that the telecommunications tower is necessary, that the area cannot be served
from outside the district, that no existing or previously approved wireless
telecommunications facility can reasonably be used for the antenna placement
instead of the construction of a new wireless telecommunications facility or
instead of increasing the height of an existing wireless telecommunications
facility, and that no alternative wireless telecommunications facility or
alternative type of wireless telecommunications facility can be used to provide
wireless telecommunications service to the district.
      (3)   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new
telecommunication tower, the applicant shall hold a “balloon test” prior to the
initial public hearing on the application. The applicant shall arrange to fly,
or raise upon a temporary mast, a minimum of a ten-foot in length, a brightly
colored balloon at the maximum height of the proposed new tower.
      (4)   At least 14 days prior to the conduct of the balloon test, a sign
shall be erected so as to be clearly visible from the road nearest the proposed
site and shall be removed no later than 14 days after the conduct of the
balloon test. The sign shall be at least four feet by eight feet in size and
shall be readable from the road by a person with 20/20 vision.
      (5)   Such sign shall be placed off, but as near to, the public right-of-
way as is possible.
      (6)   Such sign shall contain the times and date(s) of the balloon test
and contact information.
      (7)   The dates, (including a second date, in case of poor visibility or
wind in excess of 15 mph on the initial date) times and location of this
balloon test shall be advertised by the applicant seven and 14 days in advance
of the first test date in a newspaper with a general circulation in the town
and as agreed to by the town. The applicant shall inform the town in writing,
of the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in advance. The balloon
shall be flown for at least four consecutive hours between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00
p.m. on the dates chosen. The primary date shall be on a weekend, but the
second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date, may be on a
weekday. A report with pictures from various locations of the balloon shall be
provided with the application.
      (8)   The applicant shall notify all property owners and residents
located within 1,500 of the nearest property line of the subject property of
the proposed construction of the tower and wireless facility and of the date(s)
and time(s) of the balloon test. Such notice shall be provided at least 14 days
prior to the conduct of the balloon test and shall be delivered by first-class
mail.
      (9)   The wireless telecommunications facility shall be structurally
designed to accommodate at least six antenna arrays as regards the load and
stress created on the structure, with each array to be sited in such a manner
as to provide for flush attachments to the greatest extent possible with the
minimum separation required without causing interference. An intermodulation
study shall be submitted to justify design claims as related to interference. A
claim of interference because of a need to have greater than six feet of
vertical clearance between facilities, measured from the vertical centerline of
one array to the vertical centerline of another, must be proven by technical
data showing that there is no technological alternative that would enable the
service to be provided that would require less vertical space, and not merely
verbal or written assertions. This requirement may be waived, provided that the
applicant, in writing, demonstrates that the provisions of future shared usage
of the wireless telecommunications facility is not reasonably feasible if co-
location is technically or commercially impractical or impracticable. The
applicant shall provide information necessary to determine whether co-location
is reasonably feasible-based upon:
         (a)   The kind of wireless telecommunications facility site and
structure proposed; and
         (b)   Available space on existing and approved wireless
telecommunications facilities.
      (10)   The owner of a proposed new wireless telecommunications facility,
and his or her successors in interest, shall negotiate in good faith for the
shared use of the proposed wireless telecommunications facility by other
wireless service providers in the future, and shall:
         (a)   Respond within 60 days to a request for information from a
potential shared-use applicant;
         (b)   Negotiate in good faith concerning future requests for shared
use of the new wireless telecommunications facility by other telecommunications
providers;
         (c)   Allow shared use of the new wireless telecommunications facility
if another telecommunications provider agrees in writing to pay reasonable
charges. The charges may include, but are not limited to, a pro rata share of
the cost of site selection, planning, project administration, land costs, site
design, construction and maintenance financing, return on equity, less
depreciation, and all of the costs of adapting the wireless telecommunications
facility or equipment to accommodate a shared user without causing
electromagnetic interference;
         (d)   Failure to abide by the conditions outlined above may be grounds
for revocation of the special use permit.
   (M)   The applicant shall provide certification with documentation (such as,
structural analysis) including calculations that the telecommunications
facility and foundation and attachments, rooftop support structure, water tank
structure, or any other supporting structure as proposed to be utilized are
designed and will be constructed to meet all local, state and federal
structural requirements for loads, including wind and ice loads and including,
but not limited to all applicable ANSI (American National Standards Institute)
guidelines.
   (N)   All applications for proposed wireless telecommunications facilities
shall contain a demonstration that the facility is sited and designed so as to
create the least visual intrusiveness reasonably possible given the facts and
circumstances involved, and thereby will have the least adverse visual effect
on the environment and its character, on existing vegetation, and on the
community in the area of the wireless telecommunications facility. The town
expressly reserves the right to require the use of stealth or camouflage
technology or techniques such as DAS (distributive antenna system technology)
or its functional equivalent to achieve this goal and such shall be subject to
approval by the Board.
   (O)   The applicant shall furnish a visual impact assessment, which shall
include:
      (1)   A computer generated “zone of visibility map” at a minimum of one
mile radius from the proposed structure shall be provided to illustrate
locations from which the proposed installation may be seen, with and without
foliage;
      (2)   Pictorial representations (photo simulations) of “before and after”
views from key viewpoints inside of the town as may be appropriate and
required, including but not limited to state highways and other major roads,
state and local parks, other public lands, historic districts, preserves and
historic sites normally open to the public, and from any other location where
the site is visible to a large number of visitors, travelers or residents.
Guidance will be provided concerning the appropriate key viewpoints at the pre-
application meeting. In addition to photographic simulations to scale showing
the visual impact, the applicant shall provide a map showing the locations of
where the pictures were taken and the distance(s) of each location from the
proposed structure; and
      (3)   A written description of the visual impact of the proposed
facility, including, as applicable, the tower base, guy wires, fencing and
accessory buildings from abutting and adjacent properties and streets as
relates to the need for an appropriateness of screening.
   (P)   The applicant shall demonstrate and provide a description in writing
and by drawing how it shall effectively screen from view the base and all
related equipment and structures of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility.
   (Q)   The wireless telecommunications facility and any and all accessory or
associated facilities shall maximize the use of building materials, colors and
textures designed to blend with the structure to which it may be affixed and to
harmonize with the natural surroundings. This shall include the utilization of
stealth or camouflage or concealment technology as may be required by the town.
   (R)   All utilities at a wireless telecommunications facility site shall be
installed underground and in compliance with all laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations of the town, including specifically, but not limited to, the
National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code where
appropriate.
   (S)   At a wireless telecommunications facility site an access road, turn
around space for an emergency vehicle and parking shall be provided to assure
adequate emergency and service access. Maximum use of existing roads, whether
public or private, shall be made to the extent practicable. Road construction
shall at all times minimize ground disturbance and the cutting of vegetation.
Road grades shall closely follow natural contours to assure minimal visual
disturbance and reduce soil erosion.
   (T)   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall be constructed,
operated, maintained, repaired, provided for removal of, modified or restored
in strict compliance with all current applicable technical, safety and safety-
related codes adopted by the town, state, or United States, including but not
limited to the most recent editions of the ANSI Code, National Electrical
Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, as well as accepted and
responsible workmanlike industry practices and recommended practices of the
National Association of Tower Erectors. The codes referred to are codes that
include, but are not limited to, construction, building, electrical, fire,
safety, health and land use codes. In the event of a conflict between or among
any of the preceding the more stringent shall apply.
   (U)   A holder of a special use permit granted under this section shall
obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses required by applicable
law, ordinance, rule, regulation or code, and must maintain the same, in full
force and effect, for as long as required by the town or other governmental
entity or agency having jurisdiction over the applicant.
   (V)   There shall be a pre-application meeting for all intended
applications. The purpose of the pre-application meeting will be to address
issues that will help to expedite the review and permitting process and certain
issues or concerns the town may have. A pre-application meeting shall also
include a site visit, if there has not been a prior site visit for the
requested facility. Costs of the town’s consultants to prepare for and attend
the pre-application meeting will be borne by the applicant and paid for out of
a retainer based on the fixed hourly rate to be set in the town’s fee schedule
applied to the anticipated time customarily required for the review of similar
applications.
   (W)   An applicant shall submit to the town the number of completed
applications determined to be needed at the pre-application meeting. However,
applications will not be transmitted to the Board for consideration until the
application is deemed complete.
   (X)   If the proposed site is within two miles of another jurisdiction,
written notification of the application shall be provided to the legislative
body of all such adjacent municipalities as applicable and/or requested.
   (Y)   The holder of a special use permit shall notify the town of any
intended modification of a wireless telecommunication facility and shall apply
to the town to modify, relocate or rebuild a wireless telecommunications
facility.
   (Z)   A building permit shall not be issued for construction of the wireless
telecommunications facility until there is an application for a specific
carrier that documents that the facility is necessary for that carrier to serve
the community and that co-location on an existing telecommunications structure
is not feasible within the applicant’s search ring. Co-location on an existing
structure is not reasonably feasible if co-location is technically or
commercially impractical or impracticable or the owner of the wireless
telecommunications facility is unwilling to enter into a contract for such use
at fair market value. Sufficient documentation in the form of clear and
convincing evidence to support such claims shall be submitted with a wireless
telecommunications facility application for the first carrier to determine
whether co-location on existing structures is reasonably feasible and to
document the need for a specific height and that less height will serve to
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of service.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.08  REQUIREMENTS FOR AN APPLICATION FOR THE FIRST ANTENNA TO BE ATTACHED
TO AN APPROVED WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE WITHIN THE PARAMETERS OF
AN APPROVED SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The fixed application fee for review of wireless telecommunications
facilities applications for locating an antenna array on an approved wireless
telecommunications facility within the parameters of an approved special use
permit shall be as set forth in the town’s schedule of fees.
   (B)   An application to increase the parameters or size of an approved
wireless telecommunications facility as relates to conditioned height, profile,
number of co-locations or footprint shall not qualify for treatment as an
attachment to an approved wireless telecommunications facility within the
parameters of an approved special use permit under this section.
   (C)   There shall be no special use permit required for an application to
attach the first antenna array on an approved wireless telecommunications
facility within the parameters of an approved special use permit, unless for
good cause such shall be required by the Board of Commissioners or Planning
Director. Instead, approval shall result in issuance of a building permit by
the appropriate administrative officer.
   (D)   Documentation shall be provided to demonstrate that the applicant has
the legal right to proceed as proposed on the site, including an executed copy
of the lease with the owner of the facility proposed to be attached to, or a
letter of agency, showing the right of the applicant to attach to the
structure.
   (E)   A pre-application meeting shall be held. Before the pre-application
meeting, the applicant shall be provided instructions for completing an
application. Said instructions are to be controlling as regards the form and
substance of the issues addressed in the instructions and must be followed.
Prior to the pre-application meeting, the applicant shall prepare and submit a
project information form provided by the town and submit the retainer fee, but
shall not prepare or submit the application at that time.
   (F)   The applicant shall include a written statement that:
      (1)   The applicant’s proposed wireless telecommunications facility shall
be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all conditions of all
applicable permits and authorizations, without exception, as well as all
applicable and permissible local codes, ordinances and regulations, including
any and all applicable town, state and federal laws, rules and regulations; and
      (2)   The construction of the wireless telecommunications facilities is
legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that the applicant
is authorized to do business in the state.
   (G)   An application for the first antenna to be attached to an approved
wireless telecommunications facility subsequent to the issuance of the special
use permit and prior to issuance of a building permit for construction of the
wireless telecommunications facility shall contain the requirements of the
streamlined process for review of co-locations in §
157.09 and the following information:
      (1)   Facility description and documentation of the facility as
necessary.
         (a)   A detailed narrative description and explanation of the specific
objective(s) for the new wireless telecommunications facility, expressly
including and explaining the purpose for the facility, such as coverage and/or
capacity, technical requirements, and the identified boundaries of the specific
geographic area of intended coverage;
         (b)   Technical documentation that proves the design of the wireless
telecommunications facility is what is necessary to provide type and coverage
of the service primarily and essentially within the town. Such documentation
shall include a propagation study of the proposed site and all adjoining
planned, proposed or existing sites, that demonstrates a significant gap in
coverage and/or, if a capacity issue is involved, to include an analysis of the
current and projected usage (traffic studies) using generally accepted industry
methods and standards so as to conclusively prove the need for what is
proposed. To enable the town to make its decision as regards to the design of
the wireless telecommunications facility, the town may require the provision of
all technical or engineering data and information used by the applicant that is
necessary to enable an informed decision to be made to assure compliance with
the intent of this section and that is based upon a written record, not to
include information that by applicable law or regulation is deemed to be
confidential or proprietary;
         (c)   All of the modeling information (such as, data) inputted into
the software used to produce the propagation studies, including, but not
limited to any assumptions made, such as ambient tree height, which shall
include the completion of the town’s propagation study data form:
         (d)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facility, as well as a copy of the five- and ten-
year build-out plan required by the FCC;
         (e)   The frequency, modulation and class of service of radio or other
transmitting equipment;
         (f)   The maximum transmission power capability of all radios, as
designed, if the applicant is a cellular or functional equivalent carrier, or
the maximum transmission power capability, as designed, of all transmission
facilities if the applicant is not a cellular or functional equivalent carrier;
         (g)   The actual intended transmission power stated as the maximum
effective radiated power (ERP), both in dBm’s and watts; and
         (h)   A statement certifying that the wireless telecommunications
facility and all attachments thereto are in compliance with the conditions of
the approved special use permit.
      (2)   Ownership and management.
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
application;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the property owner and the
applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If the owner of the
structure is different than the applicant, the name and all necessary contact
information shall be provided;
         (c)   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
and
         (d)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.09  STREAMLINED REQUIREMENTS FOR AN APPLICATION TO CO-LOCATE ON AN
EXISTING TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY WITHIN THE PARAMETERS OF AN APPROVED
SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The fixed application fee for review of wireless telecommunications
facilities applications for co-locating an antenna array on an existing
wireless telecommunications facility shall be as set forth in the town’s
schedule of fees.
   (B)   An application to increase the parameters of an approved wireless
telecommunications facility as it relates to conditioned height, profile,
number of co-locations or footprint shall not qualify for treatment as an
attachment to an existing tower or other structure under this section.
   (C)   There shall be no special use permit required for an application to
modify or to co-locate an antenna array on an existing and properly permitted
wireless telecommunications facility so long as the co-location or modification
does not exceed the parameters of the conditions of the approved special use
permit, unless for good cause such shall be required by the Board of
Commissioners or Planning Director. Instead, approval shall result in issuance
of a building permit by the appropriate administrative officer.
   (D)   Documentation shall be provided to demonstrate that the applicant has
the legal right to proceed as proposed on the site, including an executed copy
of the lease with the owner of the facility proposed to be attached to, or a
letter of agency, showing the right of the applicant to attach to the
structure.
   (E)   A pre-application meeting shall be held. Before the pre-application
meeting, the applicant shall be provided instructions for completing an
application. Said instructions are to be controlling as regards the form and
substance of the issues addressed in the instructions and must be followed
prior to the pre-application meeting, the applicant shall prepare and submit
the project information form and submit the retainer fee, but shall not prepare
or submit the application.
   (F)   The applicant shall include a written statement that:
      (1)   The applicant’s proposed wireless telecommunications facility shall
be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all conditions of all
applicable permits and authorizations, without exception, as well as all
applicable and permissible local codes, ordinances and regulations, including
any and all applicable town, state and federal laws, rules, and regulations;
and
      (2)   The construction of the wireless telecommunications facilities is
legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that the applicant
is authorized to do business in the state.
   (G)   An application for attaching an antenna array under this section shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Facility description.
         (a)   A detailed narrative description and explanation of the specific
objective(s) for the new facility, or the modification of an existing wireless
facility, expressly including and explaining the purpose for the facility, such
as lack of coverage, and/or capacity, requirements, and the identified
boundaries of the specific geographic area of intended coverage;
         (b)   Documentation that the design of the facility is what is
necessary for the design service to serve the community (such as, that the
placement on the wireless telecommunications structure is the lowest available
height necessary and that the design produces the least visual and is designed
to operate within the conditions of the approved special use permit as regards
to height, profile, type and number of co-locations and footprint);
         (c)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facility, as well as a copy of the five- and ten-
year build-out plan required by the FCC;
         (d)   The frequency, modulation and class of service of radio or other
transmitting equipment;
         (e)   The maximum transmission power capability of all radios, as
designed, if the applicant is a cellular or functional equivalent carrier, or
the maximum transmission power capability, as designed, of all transmission
facilities if the applicant is not a cellular or functional equivalent carrier;
         (f)   The actual intended transmission power stated as the maximum
effective radiated power (ERP), both in dBm’s and watts; and
         (g)   A statement certifying that the wireless telecommunications
facility and all attachments thereto are in compliance with the conditions of
the approved special use permit.
      (2)   Ownership and management.
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
application;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the property owner and the
applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If the owner of the
structure is different than the applicant, the name and all necessary contact
information shall be provided;
         (c)   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
and
         (d)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (3)   Zoning and planning.
         (a)   The Zoning District or designation in which the property is
situated;
         (b)   The size of the property on which the structure to be attached
to is located, stated both in square feet and lot line dimensions, and a survey
showing the location of all lot lines;
         (c)   The location, size and height of all existing and proposed
structures on the property on which the structure is located and that is the
subject of the application;
         (d)   A site plan showing the footprint, location and dimensions of
access drives, landscaping and buffers, fencing and any other requirements of
site plans.
         (e)   Elevations showing the vertical rendition of the wireless
telecommunications facility identifying all users, attachments, and all related
fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus, including height above pre-
existing grade, materials, color and lighting;
         (f)   The azimuth, size and center line height location of all
proposed and existing antennae on the supporting structure; and
         (g)   The number, type and model of the antenna(s) proposed, along
with a copy of the specification sheet(s) for the antennas.
      (4)   Safety.
         (a)   The age of the tower in years, including the date of the grant
of the original permit or authorization for the tower;
         (b)   A description of the type of tower, such as, guyed, self-
supporting lattice or monopole;
         (c)   The make, model, type and manufacturer of the telecommunications
structure and the structural design calculations, certified by a professional
engineer licensed in the state, proving the structure’s capability to safely
accommodate the facilities of the applicant without change or modification, or
if any change or modification of the structure is needed, a detailed narrative
explaining what changes are needed, why they are needed and who will be
responsible to assure that the changes are made;
         (d)   A copy of the installed foundation design, as well as a
geotechnical sub-surface soils investigation, evaluation report and foundation
recommendation for the tower site or other structure;
         (e)   For a tower that is five years old or older, or for a guyed
tower that is three years old or older, a copy of the latest ANSI report done
pursuant to the latest edition of ANSI-EIA/TTA 222F - Annex E for any self-
supporting tower. If an ANSI report has not been done pursuant to the preceding
schedule, an ANSI report shall be done and submitted as part of the
application. No building permit shall be issued for any wireless facility where
the structure being attached to is in need of remediation, unless and until all
remediation work needed has been completed or a schedule for the remediation
work has been approved by the Town Planning Department;
         (f)   A structural report signed by a professional engineer licensed
to do business in the state and bearing that engineer’s currently valid stamp,
showing the structural adequacy of the wireless telecommunications facility to
accommodate the proposed modification or antenna array co-location, including
any equipment shelter, unless the equipment shelter is located on the lowest
floor of a building;
         (g)   If attaching to a structure other than a tower or where the
proposed attachment is within 30 feet of areas to which the public has or could
reasonably have or gain access to, documentation shall be provided, including
all calculations, proving that the potential exposure to RF radiation (such as,
NIER or non-ion emitting radiation), will be in compliance with the most recent
Federal Communications Commission regulations governing RF radiation and
exposure thereto, and further denoting the minimum distance from any antennas
an individual may safely stand without being exposed to RF radiation in excess
of the FCC’s permitted standards and any portion(s) of the structure that would
be exposed to RF radiation in excess of the FCC’s permitted standards . In
compliance with the FCC’s regulations, in such an instance the RF radiation
from all wireless facilities at that location shall be included in the
calculations to show the cumulative effect on any area of the building or
structure deemed accessible by the public or workers. Such report or analysis
shall be signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the state;
         (h)   In an instance involving a tower where the new wireless
telecommunications facility will be ten meters or more above ground level,
signed documentation such as the FCC’s Checklist to Determine whether a
Facility may be Categorically Excluded shall be provided to verify that the
wireless telecommunication facility with the proposed installation will be in
full compliance with the current FCC’s RF emissions regulations. If not
categorically excluded, a complete RF emissions study is required to enable
verification of compliance, including providing all calculations so that such
may be verified prior to issuance of a building permit;
         (i)   If any section or portion of the structure to be attached to is
not in compliance with the FCC’s regulations regarding RF radiation, that
section or portion must be barricaded with a suitable barrier to discourage
approaching into the area in excess of the FCC’s regulations, and be marked off
with yellow and black striped warning tape or a suitable warning barrier, as
well as placing RF radiation signs as needed and appropriate to warn
individuals of the potential danger; and
         (j)   A signed statement that the applicant will expeditiously remedy
any physical or RF interference with other telecommunications or wireless
devices or services.
   (H)   To protect the nature and character of the area and create the least
visually intrusive impact reasonably possible under the facts and
circumstances, any attachment to a building or other structure with a facie,
the antennas shall be mounted on the facie, unless it can be proven that such
will prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of service, and
all such attachments and exposed cabling shall use camouflage or stealth
techniques to match as closely as possible the color and texture of the
structure.
   (I)   If attaching to a water tank, in order to maintain the current profile
and height, mounting on the top of the tank or the use of a corral shall only
be permitted if the applicant can prove that to locate elsewhere will prohibit
or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of service. The provisions of
the preceding division shall also apply to any attachment to a water tank.
   (J)   The applicant shall provide a certification by a professional engineer
licensed in the state, along with documentation (a structural analysis),
including calculations, that prove that the wireless telecommunications
facility and its foundation as proposed to be utilized are designed and were
constructed to meet all local, town, state, federal and ANSI structural
requirements for loads, including wind and ice loads and the placement of any
equipment on the roof a building after the addition of the proposed new
facilities.
   (K)   So as to be the least visually intrusive wireless telecommunications
facility reasonably possible given the facts and circumstances involved, and
thereby have the least adverse visual effect and create the least intrusive or
lowest profile or visual silhouette reasonably possible, unless it can be
proven that such would be technologically impracticable, all antennas attached
to a tower or other structure shall be flush mounted or as near to flush
mounted as is possible without prohibiting or having the effect of prohibiting
the provision of service so as minimize the visual profile of the antennas, or
prove technically, with hard data and a detailed narrative, that flush mounting
cannot be used and would serve to prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting
the provision of service.
   (L)   Unless it is deemed inappropriate or unnecessary by the town given the
facts and circumstances, the applicant shall demonstrate and provide in writing
and by drawing how it shall effectively buffer and screen from view the base
and all related equipment and structures of the proposed wireless
telecommunications facility up to a height of ten feet.
   (M)   The wireless telecommunications facility and any and all accessory or
associated facilities shall maximize the use of building materials, colors and
textures designed to blend with the structure to which it may be affixed and to
harmonize with the natural surroundings. This shall include the utilization of
stealth, camouflage or concealment technology as may be required by the town
and as is not impracticable under the facts and circumstances.
   (N)   All utilities installed for a new wireless telecommunications facility
shall be installed underground and in compliance with all laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations of the town, including specifically, but not limited to,
the National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code where
appropriate.
   (O)   If deemed necessary or appropriate, an access road, turn around space
and parking shall be provided to assure adequate emergency and service access.
Maximum use of existing roads, whether public or private, shall be made to the
extent practicable. Road construction shall at all times minimize ground
disturbance and the cutting of vegetation. Road grades shall closely follow
natural contours to assure minimal visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion
and shall comply with any local or state regulations for the construction of
roads. If the current access road or turn around space is deemed in disrepair
or in need of remedial work to make it serviceable and safe and in compliance
with any applicable regulations as determined at a site visit, the application
shall contain a commitment to remedy or restore the road or turn around space
so that it is serviceable and safe and in compliance with applicable
regulations.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.10  LOCATION OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Applicants for telecommunications towers shall locate, site and erect
said wireless telecommunications facilities in accordance with the following
priorities, in the following order:
      (1)   On existing wireless telecommunications facilities on town-owned
property without increasing the height of the tower or structure;
      (2)   On other existing wireless telecommunications facilities without
increasing the height of the tower or structure;
      (3)   On town-owned properties or facilities;
      (4)   On properties in areas zoned for business use;
      (5)   On properties in areas zoned for rural use;
      (6)   On properties in areas zoned for residential use; and
      (7)   On properties in designated Historic Districts;
   (B)   Applicants for all other wireless telecommunications facilities (such
as, distributed antenna systems or buildings) shall locate, site and construct
said wireless telecommunications facilities in accordance with the following
priorities, in order:
      (1)   On existing town-owned wireless telecommunications facilities
without increasing the height of the structure;
      (2)   On existing wireless telecommunications facilities without
increasing the height of the structure;
      (3)   On town-owned properties or facilities;
      (4)   On properties in areas zoned for business use;
      (5)   On properties in areas zoned for rural use;
      (6)   On properties in areas zoned for Residential use; and
      (7)   On properties in designated Historic Districts.
   (C)   If the proposed site is not proposed for the highest priority listed
above, then a detailed explanation and justification must be provided as to why
a site of all higher priority designations was not selected. The person seeking
such an exception must satisfactorily demonstrate the reason or reasons why
such a permit should be granted for the proposed site, and the hardship that
would be incurred by the applicant if the permit were not granted for the
wireless telecommunications facility as proposed.
   (D)   An applicant may not by-pass sites of higher priority by stating the
site proposed is the only site leased or selected or because there is an
existing lease with a landowner. An application shall address co-location as an
option. If such option is not proposed, the applicant must explain to the
reasonable satisfaction of the town why co-location is technically or
commercially impracticable. Agreements between wireless telecommunications
facility owners limiting or prohibiting co-location shall not be a valid basis
for any claim of commercial impracticability or hardship.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the above, the town may approve any site located
within an area in the above list of priorities, provided that the town finds
that the proposed site is in the best interest of the health, safety and
welfare of the town and its inhabitants and will not have a deleterious effect
on the nature and character of the community and neighborhood. Conversely, the
town may direct that the proposed location be changed to another location that
is more in keeping with the goals of this section and the public interest as
determined by the town.
   (F)   Notwithstanding that a potential site may be situated in an area of
highest priority or highest available priority, the town may disapprove an
application for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Conflict with safety and safety-related codes and requirements;
      (2)   Conflict with the historic nature or character of a neighborhood or
district;
      (3)   The use or construction of wireless telecommunications facilities
which is contrary to an already stated purpose of a specific zoning or land use
designation;
      (4)   The placement and location of wireless telecommunications
facilities which would create an unacceptable risk, or the reasonable
probability of such, to residents, the public, employees and agents of the
town, or employees of the service provider or other service providers;
      (5)   The placement and location of a wireless telecommunications
facility would result in a conflict with or compromise in or change the nature
or character of the surrounding area;
      (6)   Conflicts with the provisions of this section; or
      (7)   Failure to submit a complete application as required under this
section.
   (G)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, for good
cause shown, such as the ability to utilize a shorter or less intrusive
facility elsewhere and still accomplish the primary service objective, the town
may require the relocation of a proposed site, including allowing for the fact
that relocating the site chosen by the applicant may require the use of more
than one site to provide substantially the same service if the relocation could
result in a less intrusive facility or facilities, singly or in combination.
The existence of a lease entered into prior to the approval of an application
shall not be deemed justification for the requested location.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.11  SHARED USE OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The town requires the co-location of antenna arrays on existing
wireless telecommunications facilities as opposed to the construction of a new
wireless telecommunications facility or increasing the height, footprint or
profile beyond the conditions of the approved special use permit for an
existing wireless telecommunications facility, unless such is proven to be
technologically impracticable. The applicant shall submit a comprehensive
report inventorying all existing wireless telecommunications facilities and
other suitable structures within one mile of the location of any proposed new
wireless telecommunications facility, unless the applicant can show that some
other distance is more appropriate and reasonable and demonstrate conclusively
why an existing wireless telecommunications facility or other suitable
structure cannot be used.
   (B)   An applicant intending to locate on an existing wireless
telecommunications facility shall be required to document the intent of the
existing owner to permit its use by the applicant.
   (C)   Such shared use shall consist only of the minimum antenna array
technologically required to provide service primarily and essentially within
the town, to the extent practicable, unless good cause is shown.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.12  TYPE AND HEIGHT OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   All new towers shall be of the monopole type, unless such is able to
be proven to be technologically impracticable. No new towers of a lattice or
guyed type shall be permitted, unless relief is otherwise expressly granted.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit documentation justifying the total height
of any wireless telecommunications facility or antenna requested and the basis
therefore. Documentation in the form of propagation studies must include all
backup data used to produce the studies at the requested height and a minimum
of ten feet lower height to enable verification of the need for the requested
height.
   (C)   For a new wireless telecommunications facility, a reduction in the
identified size of the identified service area of 10% or less of the predicted
service area shall not be deemed justification for exceeding the otherwise
maximum allowable height of a wireless telecommunications facility.
   (D)   The maximum permitted total height of a new wireless
telecommunications facility shall be 120 feet above pre-construction ground
level, unless it can be proven that such height would prohibit or have the
effect of prohibiting the provision of service in the intended service area
within the community. The maximum permitted height is not an as-of-right
height, but rather the maximum permitted height, absent proof of the
technological need for a greater height.
   (E)   For a wireless facility to be located on an existing wireless
telecommunications facility, such documentation will be analyzed in the context
of the justification of the height needed to provide service primarily and
essentially within the town, to the extent practicable, unless good cause is
shown. A reduction in the size of the identified service area of 10% or less of
the predicted service area shall not be deemed justification for increasing the
height of a facility.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be no taller than the minimum height
technologically necessary to enable the provision of wireless service coverage
or capacity as needed within the community (such as, the town, audits
jurisdiction).
   (G)   Documentation substantiating the height necessary to provide for the
placement of an antennal array to provide wireless service to the community
shall be submitted by the applicant prior to issuance of a building permit for
a new wireless telecommunications facility, such as, tower, but shall not be
required prior to the issuance of the special use permit, unless the requested
height exceeds the 120-foot maximum height. Such documentation shall be
provided with an application for the first attachment of an antenna array and
for any proposed increase in the previously permitted height.
   (H)   Relief from the maximum height for new wireless telecommunications
facilities shall only be considered where evidence substantiates a taller
height is necessary for the provision of wireless service to the community, to
the exclusion of any alternative option that is not technologically or
commercially impracticable, and where denial of a taller height would have the
effect of prohibiting the provision, of wireless service to the community. Such
documentation shall be provided prior to consideration of a special use permit
when the requested height exceeds the 120-foot maximum height.
   (I)   Prior to issuing a building permit for the co-location of an antenna
array on an existing wireless telecommunications facility, an applicant shall
demonstrate that the co-location is located appropriately on the wireless
telecommunications facility with the overall goal being to preserve the
carrying capacity of the wireless telecommunications facility for future co-
locations and to minimize the visual intrusiveness and impact, including the
profile of the wireless telecommunications facility.
   (J)   In determining the necessary height for a wireless telecommunications
facility, or the height or placement of a co-location on a wireless
telecommunications facility, the signal strengths analyzed shall be the
threshold or lowest signal strength at which the customer equipment is designed
to function, which may be required to be determined by the manufacturer’s
published specifications for the customer equipment.
   (K)   As the town has made the policy decision that more towers of a shorter
height is in the public interest, as opposed to fewer taller towers, spacing,
or the distance between towers, shall be such that the service may be provided
without exceeding the maximum permitted height.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.13  VISIBILITY OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Artificially lighted.  Wireless telecommunications facilities shall
not be artificially lighted or marked, except as required by federal
regulations.
   (B)   Stealth.  All new wireless telecommunications facilities, including
but not limited to towers, shall utilize stealth or camouflage techniques and
technology, unless such can be shown to be either commercially or
technologically impracticable.
   (C)   Dual mode.  In order to minimize the number of antenna arrays and thus
the visual impact, the town may require the use of dual mode antennas to be
used, including by two different carriers, unless it can be proven that such
will not work technologically and that such would have the effect of
prohibiting the provision of service in the town.
   (D)   Finish/color.  Structures shall be galvanized and/or painted with a
rust-preventive paint of an appropriate color to harmonize with the
surroundings and shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of
this section.
   (E)   Lighting. If lighting is legally required or proposed, the applicant
shall provide a detailed plan for sufficient lighting of as unobtrusive and
inoffensive an effect as is permissible under state and federal regulations.
For any wireless telecommunications facility for which lighting is required
under the FAA’s regulations, or that for any reason has lights attached, all
such lighting shall be affixed with technology that enables the light to be
seen as intended from the air, but that prevents the ground scatter effect so
that it not able to be seen from the ground to a height of at least 12 degrees
vertical for a distance of at least one mile in a level terrain situation. Such
device must be compliant with or not in conflict with FAA regulations. A
physical shield may be used, as long as the light is able to be seen from the
air, as intended by the FAA.
   (F)   Modification of lighting.  In the event a wireless telecommunications
facility that is lighted is modified, at the time of the modification the town
may require that the tower be retrofitted with the technology set forth in
division (E) of this section.
   (G)   Flush mounting. All new or replacement antennas, except omni-
directional whip antennas, shall be flush-mounted or as close to flush-mounted
as is technologically possible on any wireless telecommunications facility, so
long as such does not have the effect of prohibiting the provision of service
to the intended service area, alone or in combination with another site(s),
unless the applicant can prove that it is technologically impracticable.
   (H)   Placement on building - facie. If attached to a building, all antennas
shall be mounted on the facie of the building and camouflaged so as to match
the color and, if possible, texture of the building or in a manner so as to
make the antennas as visually innocuous and undetectable as is possible given
the facts and circumstances involved.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.14  SECURITY OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall be located, fenced or
otherwise secured in a manner that prevents unauthorized access. Specifically:
   (A)   All wireless telecommunications facilities, including antennas, towers
and other supporting structures, such as guy anchor points and wires, shall be
made inaccessible to individuals and constructed or shielded in such a manner
that they cannot be climbed or collided with; and
   (B)   Transmitters and telecommunications control points shall be installed
in such a manner that they are readily accessible only to persons authorized to
operate or service them.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.15  SIGNAGE.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a sign no larger than
four square feet in order to provide adequate notification to persons in the
immediate area of the presence of RF radiation or to control exposure to RF
radiation within a given area. A sign of the same size is also to be installed
to contain the name(s) of the owner(s) and operator(s) of the antenna(s) as
well as emergency phone number(s). The sign shall be on the equipment shelter
or cabinet of the applicant and be visible from the access point of the site
and must identify the equipment owner of the shelter or cabinet. On tower
sites, an FCC registration site, as applicable, is also to be present. The
signs shall not be lighted, unless applicable law, rule or regulation requires
lighting. No other signage, including advertising, shall be permitted.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.16  SETBACKS.
   (A)   All proposed telecommunications towers and any other proposed wireless
telecommunications facility attachment structures shall be set back from
abutting parcels, recorded rights-of-way, and road and street lines by the
greater of the following distances: A distance equal to the height of the
proposed tower or other wireless telecommunications facility structure plus 10%
of the height of the telecommunications structure, otherwise known as the fall
zone, or the existing setback requirement of the underlying zoning district,
whichever is greater. Any accessory structure shall be located within the
footprint as approved in the special use permit and so as to comply with the
applicable minimum setback requirements for the property on which it is
situated. The fall zone shall be measured from the nearest portion of the
right-of-way of any public road or thoroughfare and any occupied building or
domicile. Further, the nearest portion of any access road leading to a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be no less than 15 feet from the nearest
property line.
   (B)   There shall be no development of habitable buildings within the fall
zone set forth in the preceding division.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.17  RETENTION OF EXPERT ASSISTANCE COST TO BE BORNE BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   The county may hire any consultant and/or expert necessary to assist
the county in reviewing and evaluating the application, including the
construction and modification of the site, once permitted, and any site
inspections.
   (B)   To prevent the taxpayers from having to bear the cost related to the
issue of the regulation of wireless telecommunications facilities, an applicant
shall pay to the county a consultant fee based on the fixed hourly rate and the
amount to be set forth in the county’s fee schedule. The amount of the fee
shall be based on what has been usual and customary in the county for the
review and permitting assistance related to wireless telecommunications towers
and facilities and shall be based upon the anticipated time customarily
required for the review of similar applications to cover all reasonable costs
of consultant and expert evaluation and consultation with the county in
connection with the submittal, review and permitting of any application, and
where applicable, any lease negotiation, pre-approval evaluation and including
any construction and modification of the site, once permitted. The placement of
the initial consultant fee with the county shall precede the pre-application
meeting or any work being done as regards to processing an application. The
county will maintain accounting for the expenditure of all such funds. The
county’s consultants/experts shall invoice the county for all time expended for
its services in reviewing the application, including the construction and
modification of the site, once permitted. If at any time during the process
this consultant fee has a balance of less than one-fourth of the initial
consultant fee due to an incomplete application, incorrect information
contained in the application or non-compliance with the requirements of this
section, the applicant shall immediately, upon notification by the county,
provide a consultant fee equivalent to one-half of the initial consultant fee.
Such additional funds shall be deposited with the county before any further
action or consideration is taken on the application. In the event that the
amount paid to the county is more than the amount of the actual invoicing at
the conclusion of the project, the remaining balance shall be promptly refunded
to the applicant subsequent to the issuance of a certificate of completion,
unless the application is abandoned or withdrawn, in which case there shall be
no refund.
   (C)   There shall be four categories of consultant fees, such being lease
negotiations fee, application assistance and review fee, application amendment
fee and public hearing fee. Said fees shall be set forth in the county’s
published schedule of fees and may be adjusted from time to time by the Board
of Commissioners.
   (D)   The fixed fee shall be based on the hourly rate of the consultant,
which may be adjusted from time to time, multiplied by the number of hours that
have been usual and customary in the county for similar applications for
wireless telecommunications structures and facilities, which number of hours
may also be adjusted from time to time based on experience. The total amount of
the funds needed as set forth in division (C) of this section may vary with the
scope of what is requested (such as, lease negotiations in addition to any
application review) and the complexity of the project, the completeness of the
application and other information as may be needed to complete the necessary
review, analysis and inspection of any construction or modification.
   (E)   Records of all outside costs associated with the review and permitting
process shall be maintained and available for public inspection, in compliance
with applicable state law.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.18  PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The procedures established for special uses in this chapter shall
apply where wireless telecommunications facilities require a special use permit
as required or otherwise specified in this section.
   (B)   The town shall schedule the required public hearing once it finds the
application is complete and is not required to set a date if the application is
not complete. The town, at any stage prior to issuing a special use permit, may
require such additional information as it deems necessary as such relates to
the issue of the siting, construction or modification of a wireless
telecommunications facility.
   (C)   A special use permit shall be issued for a wireless telecommunications
structure upon Board review and approval, but the building permit for said
telecommunications structure shall not be issued until an applicant has
provided substantiating documentation under the section governing the placement
of the first antenna array prior to construction of a new wireless
telecommunications facility.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.19  ACTION ON AN APPLICATION FOR A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town will undertake a review of an application pursuant to this
chapter in a timely fashion, consistent with its responsibilities, and shall
act within a reasonable period of time given the relative complexity of the
application and the circumstances, with due regard for the public’s interest
and need to be involved, and the applicant’s desire for a timely resolution.
   (B)   The town may refer any application or part thereof to any advisory or
other committee for a non-binding recommendation.
   (C)   After the public hearing and after formally considering the
application, the town may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a special
use permit. Its decision shall be in writing and shall be supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record. The burden of proof for the
grant of the permit shall always be upon the applicant.
   (D)   If the town approves the special use permit for the wireless
telecommunications facility, then the applicant shall be notified of such
approval at the Board meeting and in writing within 30 calendar days of the
town’s action, and the special use permit shall be issued within 30 days after
such approval. Except for necessary construction plan documents, building
permits and subsequent certificates of compliance, once a special use permit
has been granted hereunder, no additional site plan or zoning approvals shall
be required by the town for the wireless telecommunications facilities covered
by the special use permit. Each modification or co-location of an antenna array
shall require the submission of a wireless telecommunications facility
application and building permit application.
   (E)   If the town denies the special use permit for the wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the applicant shall be notified of such
denial at the Board meeting and in writing within 30 calendar days of the
Board’s action and shall set forth in writing the reason or reasons for the
denial.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.20  EXTENT AND PARAMETERS OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   The extent and parameters of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be as follows:
   (A)   Such special use permit shall not be assigned, transferred or conveyed
without the express prior written notification to the town.
   (B)   Following an opportunity to cure and, if not cured within the time
frame set forth in the notice of violation, a hearing upon due prior notice to
the applicant, such special use permit may be revoked, canceled, or terminated
for a violation of the conditions and provisions of the special use permit, or
for a material violation of this section or other applicable law, rule or
regulation. Notice of a violation and of the date, time and place of a hearing
shall be provided by registered mail to the last known address of the holder of
the special use permit.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.21  APPLICATION FEE.
   At the time that a person submits an application for a special use permit
for a new wireless telecommunications facility, such person shall pay a non-
refundable application fee set forth in the town’s fee schedule as may be
amended or changed from time to time.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.22  REMOVAL AND PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   The applicant and the owner of record of any proposed wireless
telecommunications facilities property site shall, at its cost and expense, be
jointly required to execute and file with the town a bond, or other form of
security acceptable to the town as to type of security and the form and manner
of execution, in an amount of at least $75,000 for a tower and with such
sureties as are deemed sufficient by the town to assure the faithful
performance of the terms and conditions of this section and conditions of any
special use permit issued pursuant to this section. The full amount of the bond
or security shall remain in full force and effect throughout the term of the
special use permit and/or until any necessary site restoration is completed to
restore the site to a condition comparable to that, which existed prior to the
issuance of the original special use permit.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.23  RESERVATION OF AUTHORITY TO INSPECT WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   In order to verify that the holder of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities and any and all lessees, renters, and/or
licensees of wireless telecommunications facilities, place and construct such
facilities, including towers and antennas, in accordance with all applicable
technical, safety, fire, building, and zoning codes, laws, ordinances and
regulations and other applicable requirements, the town may inspect all facets
of said permit holder’s, renter’s, lessee’s or licensee’s placement,
construction, modification and maintenance of such facilities, including, but
not limited to, towers, antennas and buildings or other structures constructed
or located on the permitted site.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.24  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   A holder of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
structures shall secure and at all times maintain public liability insurance
for personal injuries, death and property damage, and umbrella insurance
coverage, for the duration of the special use permit in amounts as set forth
below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death and
property damage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate;
      (2)   Automobile coverage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/ $2,000,000
aggregate;
      (3)   A $3,000,000 umbrella coverage; and
      (4)   Workers compensation and disability: statutory amounts.
   (B)   For a wireless telecommunications facility on town property, the
commercial general liability insurance policy shall specifically name the town
and its officers, boards, employees, committee members, attorneys, agents and
consultants as additional insureds.
   (C)   The insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a Best’s
rating of at least A.
   (D)   The insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to furnish the town with at least 30 days prior written
notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
   (E)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered to
the town at least 15 days before the expiration of the insurance that such
policies are to renew or replace.
   (F)   Before construction of a permitted wireless telecommunications
facility is initiated, but in no case later than 15 days prior to the grant of
the building permit, the holder of the special use permit shall deliver to the
town a copy of each of the policies or certificates representing the insurance
in the required amounts.
   (G)   A certificate of insurance that states that it is for informational
purposes only and does not confer rights upon the town shall not be deemed to
comply with this section.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.25  INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Any application for wireless telecommunication facilities that is
proposed for town property, pursuant to this section, shall contain a provision
with respect to indemnification. Such provision shall require the applicant, to
the extent permitted by the section, to at all times defend, indemnify,
protect, save, hold harmless, and exempt the town, and its officers, boards,
employees, committee members, attorneys, agents, and consultants from any and
all penalties, damages, costs, or charges arising out of any and all claims,
suits, demands, causes of action, or award of damages, whether compensatory or
punitive, or expenses arising there from, either at law or in equity, which
might arise out of, or are caused by, the placement, construction, erection,
modification, location, products performance, use, operation, maintenance,
repair, installation, replacement, removal, or restoration of said facility,
excepting, however, any portion of such claims, suits, demands, causes of
action or award of damages as may be attributable to the negligent or
intentional acts or omissions of the town, or its servants or agents. With
respect to the penalties, damages or charges referenced herein, reasonable
attorneys’ fees, consultants’ fees, and expert witness fees are included in
those costs that are recoverable by the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the requirements noted in division (A) of this
section, an indemnification provision will not be required in those instances
where the town itself applies for and secures a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.26  FINES.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of this section or any special use permit
issued pursuant to this section, the town may impose and collect, and the
holder of the special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities
shall pay to the town, fines or penalties.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything in this section, the holder of the special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities may not use the payment
of fines, liquidated damages or other penalties, to evade or avoid compliance
with this section or any section of this chapter. An attempt to do so shall
subject the holder of the special use permit to termination and revocation of
the special use permit. The town may also seek injunctive relief to prevent the
continued violation of this section, without limiting other remedies available
to the town.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.27  DEFAULT AND/OR REVOCATION.
   If a wireless telecommunications structure or facility is repaired, rebuilt,
placed, moved, re-located, modified or maintained in a way that is inconsistent
or not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or of the special use
permit, then the town shall notify the holder of the special use permit in
writing of such violation. A permit holder in violation may be considered in
default and subject to fines as in § 157.25 and if a violation is not corrected
to the satisfaction of the town in a reasonable period of time the special use
permit shall be subject to revocation.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.28  REMOVAL OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The owner of any wireless telecommunications facility or wireless
facility shall be required to provide a minimum of 30 days’ written notice to
the Town Clerk prior to abandoning any wireless telecommunications facility or
wireless facility.
   (B)   Under the following circumstances, the town may determine that the
health, safety, and welfare interests of the town warrant and require the
removal of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Wireless telecommunications facilities that have been abandoned
(such as, not used as wireless telecommunications facilities) for a period
exceeding 90 consecutive days or a total of 180 days in any 365-day period,
except for periods caused by force majeure or Acts of God, in which case,
repair or removal shall commence within 90 days of abandonment;
      (2)   Permitted wireless telecommunications structures or facilities fall
into such a state of disrepair that it creates a health or safety hazard; and
      (3)   Wireless telecommunications structures or facilities have been
located, constructed or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner not
authorized by, the required special use permit, or any other necessary
authorization and the special permit may be revoked.
   (C)   If the town makes such a determination as noted in division (A) of
this section, then the town shall notify the holder of the special use permit
for the wireless telecommunications facilities within 48 hours that said
wireless telecommunications facilities are to be removed, the town may approve
an interim temporary use agreement/permit, such as to enable the sale of the
wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (D)   The holder of the special use permit, or its successors or assigns,
shall dismantle and remove such wireless telecommunications facilities, and all
associated structures and facilities, from the site and restore the site to as
close to its original condition as is possible, such restoration being limited
only by physical or commercial impracticability, within 90 days of receipt of
written notice from the town. However, if the owner of the property upon which
the wireless telecommunications facilities are located wishes to retain any
access roadway to the wireless telecommunications facilities, the owner may do
so with the approval of the town.
   (E)   If wireless telecommunications facilities are not removed or
substantial progress has not been made to remove the wireless
telecommunications facilities within 90 days after the permit holder has
received notice, then the town may order officials or representatives of the
town to remove the wireless telecommunications facilities at the sole expense
of the owner or special use permit holder.
   (F)   If, the town removes, or causes to be removed, wireless
telecommunications facilities, and the owner of the wireless telecommunications
facilities does not claim and remove it from the site to a lawful location
within ten days, then the town may take steps to declare the wireless
telecommunications facilities abandoned, and sell them and their components.
   (G)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the town may
approve a temporary use permit/agreement for the wireless telecommunications
facilities, for no more than 90 days, during which time a suitable plan for
removal, conversion or re-location of the affected wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be developed by the holder of the special use permit, subject
to the approval of the town, and an agreement to such plan shall be executed by
the holder of the special use permit and the town. If such a plan is not
developed, approved and executed within the 90-day time period, then the town
may take possession of and dispose of the affected wireless telecommunications
facilities in the manner provided in this section and utilize the bond in this
section.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.29  RELIEF.
   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any aspect or
requirement of this section may request such at the pre-application meeting,
provided that the relief or exemption is contained in the submitted application
for either a special use permit, or in the case of an existing or previously
granted special use permit, a request for modification of its wireless
telecommunications facility and/or facilities. Such relief may be temporary or
permanent, partial or complete. However, the burden of proving the need for the
requested relief, waiver or exemption is solely on the applicant to prove. The
applicant shall bear all costs of the town in considering the request and the
relief, waiver or exemption. No such relief or exemption shall be approved
unless the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if
granted the relief, waiver or exemption will have no significant affect on the
health, safety and welfare of the town, its residents and other service
providers.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.30  PERIODIC REGULATORY REVIEW BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   The town may at any time conduct a review and examination of this
entire section.
   (B)   If after such a periodic review and examination of this section, the
town determines that one or more provisions of this section should be amended,
repealed, revised, clarified or deleted, and then the town may take whatever
measures are necessary in accordance with applicable ordinance in order to
accomplish the same. It is noted that where warranted, and in the best
interests of the town, the town may repeal this entire section at any time.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, the town may at any time and in any manner (to the extent permitted by
federal, state or local law), amend, add, repeal, and/or delete one or more
provisions of this section.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.31  ADHERENCE TO STATE AND/OR FEDERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To the extent that the holder of a special use permit for a wireless
telecommunications facility has not received relief, or is otherwise exempt,
from appropriate state and/or federal agency rules or regulations, then the
holder of such a special use permit shall adhere to, and comply with, all
applicable rules, regulations, standards and provisions of any state or federal
agency, including, but not limited to, the FAA and the FCC. Specifically
included in this requirement are any rules and regulations regarding height,
lighting, security, electrical and RF emission standards.
   (B)   To the extent that applicable rules, regulations, standards and
provisions of any state or federal agency, including but not limited to, the
FAA and the FCC, and specifically including any rules and regulations regarding
height, lighting and security are changed and/or are modified during the
duration of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities,
then the holder of such a special use permit shall conform the permitted
wireless telecommunications facilities to the applicable changed and/or
modified rule, regulation, standard or provision within a maximum of 24 months
of the effective date of the applicable changed and/or modified rule,
regulation, standard, or provision, or sooner as may be required by the issuing
entity.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.32  BI-ANNUAL MEETING.
   In order to develop a logical, rational plan of deployment and siting of
wireless telecommunications facilities within the town that provides reasonable
coverage within the town based on the needs of the town and its residents,
while minimizing the number and intrusiveness of the facilities and the most
efficient use of wireless telecommunications facilities sites, twice annually
within the months of January and June of each calendar year, the town shall
hold a meeting of all carriers and tower companies who have filed applications
the previous year or anyone who has expressed an interest in filing an
application to construct a wireless telecommunications facility. The town shall
notify each party of the date, time and place of the meeting no later than 30
days prior to the meeting at the last known address of the party and attendance
shall be expected. In order to allow the allocation of the town’s resources to
those applications deemed urgent or critical so that they may be permitted and
service provided as expeditiously as is reasonably possible, lack of attendance
shall be deemed as evidence of a lack of urgency or any critical need for the
facility and subject the party not attending to a longer review process than
for those attending. Consideration of applications by those not attending shall
be addressed and considered by the Planning Board twice annually, at dates to
be established by the Planning Board. Exceptions to this policy may be granted
by the Director of Planning based on facts and circumstances deemed sufficient
to warrant exception that are shown to be in the interest of the town and its
residents.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.33  CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Where this chapter differs or conflicts with other laws, rules and
regulations, unless the right to do so is preempted or prohibited by the town,
state or federal government, this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 157.34  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to applicable authority granted by the
state and federal government.
(Ord. O-2007-30IN, passed 12-4-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
 
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                      Code Section
1-537                             50.58
1-593                             10.05
1-597                             50.57
Chapter 7A                        154.054
7A-227                            151.058
7A-228                            151.058
Chapter 9, Article 10             96.25
                                  91.99,
                                  93.08,
14-4                              150.999,
                                  151.999,
                                  155.999
14-202.10 et seq.                 156.016
Chapter 18                        Charter, Art. V, 5
Chapter 18B                       Charter, Art. V, 5
20-219.11                         92.10
35-172                            51.151
36-172                            51.151
36-183(g)(5)                      51.152
42-29                             151.058
42-30                             151.058
Chapter 44A, Article 1            92.12
47.30                             155.021,
                                  155.038
Chapter 86A                       156.016
Chapter 93B                       111.35
105-109                           111.99
105-236(2)                        111.17,
                                  111.69
105-349                           Charter, Art. IV, 4.4
Chapter 113A, Article 4           155.100,
                                  155.106
121-5                             111.45,
                                  111.68
130A, Article 9                   154.015
130A-290(a)(6)                    154.015
130A-290(a)(35)                   154.015
130A-290(a)(36)                   154.015
136-102.6                         155.021
136-141 et seq.                   92.15
136-143                           92.15
143-138(h)                        96.06
143-143.15                        154.066
143-213(18)                       51.002
143-214.5                         155.125
143-215.1                         51.002,
                                  51.051
143-215.1(b)                      51.051
143-215.3(a)(14)                  51.002
143-215.6B                        51.121
143-215.23 et seq.                155.106
Chapter 143, Article 21           155.125
Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6   154.001
153A-351                          96.06
153A-364                          96.06
Chapter 160A                      155.002
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2   Charter, Art. IV, 4.1
Chapter 160, Article 19           96.25
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 3E 157.01
160A-1                            Charter, Art. I, 1.3
160A-63                           Charter, Art. II, 2.7
160A-70                           Charter, Art. II, 2.4
160A-74                           Charter, Art. II, 2.6
160A-75                           Charter, Art. II, 2.6,
                                  156.181
160A-101                          30.01
160A-102                          30.01
160A-103                          30.01
160A-174                          151.003
160A-175                          90.999
160A-175(d)                       111.99
160A-175(c)                       50.99
160A-193                          93.07
160A-207                          111.69
160A-303                          92.03
160A-303.2                        92.03
160A-360                          96.25,
                                  156.003
160A-364                          96.29,
                                  156.178
160A-374                          155.146
                                  156.032,
160A-381(b1)                      156.157,
                                  156.158,
                                  156.160
160A-381(c)                       156.158
160A-381(d)                       156.181
160A-381(e1)                      156.156
160A-382(b)                       156.176
160A-383                          156.177,
                                  156.181
160A-384                          156.178
160A-385                          156.179
160A-385(a)                       156.179
160A-386                          156.179
160A-387                          156.177
                                  156.032,
                                  156.156,
160A-388(d)                       156.157,
                                  156.158,
                                  156.160,
                                  156.177
160A-411                          96.06
160A-424                          96.06
160A-428                          151.052
160A-435                          96.06
160A-435 through 160A-440         96.25,
                                  96.27
160A-441                          150.001,
                                  152.01
160A-443                          152.05
160A-443(5)                       152.07
160A-445                          150.037
160A-446(f)                       152.05
160A-446(g)                       152.05
160A-446(6)                       152.08
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2   Charter, Art. IV, 4.1,
                                  30.01
Chapter 160A, Article 8           154.001
                                  150.039,
Chapter 160A, Article 10          151.057,
                                  152.08
Chapter 160A, Article 19          156.001
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 3  154.001
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 5  154.001
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 8  154.001
163-292                           Charter, Art. III, 3.1
164-7                             10.14
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     95.01—
-        12-9-1980   95.03,
                     95.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed    Description
                           70.02—
-           - -            70.05,
                           70.99
-           - -            156.016
-           8-2-1955       70.01
                           110.01—
-           3-4-1964       110.13,
                           110.99
                           152.01—
-           11-9-1982      152.09,
                           152.99
                           156.001—
                           156.003,
                           156.015,
                           156.016,
                           156.030—
                           156.033,
                           156.070—
                           156.076,
                           156.090—
                           156.099,
                           156.110—
                           156.120,
                           156.122,
                           156.123,
                           156.135—
                           156.144,
-           9-3-1986       156.155—
                           156.160,
                           156.175—
                           156.181,
                           156.195—
                           156.198,
                           156.210,
                           156.211,
                           156.225—
                           156.227,
                           156.240—
                           156.242,
                           156.255—
                           156.259,
                           156.270—
                           156.272,
                           156.999
                           150.001—
                           150.003,
                           150.015—
                           150.022,
                           150.035—
-           11-1-1988      150.041,
                           150.055,
                           150.056,
                           150.070,
                           150.071,
                           150.999
-           eff. 5-1-1990  30.01
-           5-4-1993       10.99
-           2-1-1994       91.02,
                           91.99
                           51.001,
                           51.002,
                           51.015—
                           51.023,
                           51.035—
                           51.038,
                           51.050,
                           51.051,
192         10-4-1994      51.065—
                           51.077,
                           51.090—
                           51.092,
                           51.105,
                           51.120—
                           51.123,
                           51.135—
                           51.137,
                           51.999
-           4-2-1996       150.037
                           92.01—
-           3-4-1997       92.16,
                           92.99
                           151.001—
                           151.008,
                           151.020—
                           151.022,
                           151.035,
-           1-13-1998      151.036,
                           151.050—
                           151.059,
                           151.070—
                           151.073,
                           151.999
                           153.01—
-           9-1-1998       153.10,
                           153.99
-           9-1-1998       156.016
-           4-6-1999       156.116,
                           156.117
-           7-6-1999       156.119
                           155.001—
                           155.009,
                           155.020—
                           155.022,
                           155.035—
                           155.038,
                           155.050—
                           155.055,
-           1-4-2000       155.070,
                           155.085,
                           155.100—
                           155.110,
                           155.125—
                           155.133,
                           155.145—
                           155.150,
                           155.999
-           2-1-2000       70.03,
                           70.99
                           150.001,
-           2-1-2000       150.003,
                           150.041
-           9-5-2000       156.119
-           10-3-2000      156.119
-           3-6-2001       51.023
-           5-1-2001       156.118
-           11-13-2001     156.110,
                           156.119
-           12-4-2001      156.116
-           5-7-2002       156.117
-           4-1-2003       156.115
-           10-12-2004     156.118
-           12-7-2004      156.117
O-2005-03   6-29-2005      96.25—
                           96.29
                           156.016,
-           7-5-2005       156.075,
                           156.180
                           91.01,
-           9-6-2005       91.02,
                           91.99
O-2005-06   9-6-2005       112.01
-           9-6-2005       156.016,
                           156.119
                           156.156—
                           156.158,
-           1-1-2006       156.160,
                           156.176—
                           156.179,
                           156.181
-           1-3-2006       156.016
-           9-5-2006       93.01—
                           93.08
O-2006-09   12-5-2006      156.242
                           156.110—
                           156.112,
                           156.114,
O-2006-10   12-5-2006      156.115,
                           156.120,
                           156.122,
                           156.195—
                           156.198
                           90.001,
                           90.015—
                           90.018,
-           2-6-2007       90.030—
                           90.043,
                           90.055,
                           90.070,
                           90.999
                           50.01—
                           50.24,
O-2007-16   5-1-2007       50.35—
                           50.43,
                           50.99
                           154.001—
                           154.004,
                           154.015,
                           154.030—
                           154.036,
-           5-1-2007       154.050—
                           154.054,
                           154.065—
                           154.070,
                           154.085,
                           154.086,
                           154.999
O-2007-10   6-5-2007       51.150—
                           51.152
                           50.01—
                           50.24,
-           8-7-2007       50.35—
                           50.43,
                           50.99
                           156.016,
O-2007-14   8-7-2007       156.045—
                           156.056
O-2007-20IN 9-4-2007       156.100
                           94.01—
O-2007-21   10-2-2007      94.15,
                           94.99
O-2007-30IN 12-4-2007      157.01—
                           157.34
O-2007-33IN 12-4-2007      156.116,
                           156.117
                           50.55—50.69,
O-2008-1    1-3-2008       50.99;
                           Ch. 50, Appendix
                           156.001—
                           156.003,
                           156.015,
                           156.016,
                           156.030—
                           156.033,
                           156.070—
                           156.076;
                           156.090—
                           156.099,
                           156.110—
                           156.120,
                           156.122,
                           156.123,
                           156.135—
                           156.144,
-           5-6-2008       156.155—
                           156.160,
                           156.175—
                           156.181,
                           156.195—
                           156.198,
                           156.210,
                           156.211,
                           156.225—
                           156.227,
                           156.240—
                           156.242,
                           156.255—
                           156.259,
                           156.270—
                           156.272,
                           156.999
O-2008-9    5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-10   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-11   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-12   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-13   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-14   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-15   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-16   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-17   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-18   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-19   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-20   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-21   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-22   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2008-23   5-6-2008       156.101
O-2008-30   5-6-2008       156.075
O-2008-31   5-6-2008       156.016
O-2009-04   6-2-2009       156.016
                           50.41,
O-2010-01   6-1-2010       50.43—
                           50.45
O-2010-20   11-4-2010      156.016
O-2010-22   11-4-2010      Ch. 50, Appendix
O-2010-20   11-4-2010      156.121
                           156.016,
-           12-7-2010      156.047—
                           156.052,
                           156.054
                           96.01—
O-2011-24   3-1-2011       96.10,
                           96.99
                           111.01,
                           111.02,
                           111.15—
                           111.23,
O-2012-51   eff. 4-12-2012 111.35—
                           111.46,
                           111.60—
                           111.69,
                           111.99
                          
 
