WARREN COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 6-7-2021;
State legislation current through 2021 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet #1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   County organization, see
Ch. 31
   County policies, see
Ch.30
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Warren County, North Carolina,
shall be designated as the “Code of Warren County, North Carolina”, and may be
so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Warren County, North Carolina.
      COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the County of
Warren, North Carolina.
      DAY. A calendar day.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any pathway, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto within the
county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way or area between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday, Sunday, or state holiday it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section              
of the Code of Ordinances, Warren County, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Warren County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.19  CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or
prescribing salaries for county officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit, or
other right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing, or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed, or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   All such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the County Board of
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the County Board of Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [such as,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles of sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections      to     ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $500, and each day that any of the provisions of this code of ordinances
are violated shall constitute a separate offense. No fine shall exceed $50
unless the ordinance expressly states that the maximum fine is greater than
$50.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATION
CHAPTER 30:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Alcohol sales on Sunday
   
30.02   Concealed weapons prohibited in county buildings
Criminal History Background Checks
   
30.15   Title
   
30.16   Purpose
   
30.17   Checks for employment applicants
   
30.18   Checks for pawn shop applications
State of Emergency
   
30.30   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
30.31   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
30.32   Curfew
   
30.33   Restrictions on possession, consumption, or transfer of intoxicating
liquor
   
30.34   Restrictions on possession, transportation, and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
30.35   Restrictions on access to areas
   
30.36   Conduct that may be limited by proclamation
   
30.37   Amendments of the proclamation
   
30.38   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
30.39   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
30.40   In case of absence or disability of Chairperson
   
30.41   Application
 
   
30.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ambulance franchises, see
Ch. 111
   County organization, see
Ch. 31
   Flood damage prevention, see
Ch. 150
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  ALCOHOL SALES ON SUNDAY.
   Under the authority of G.S. §§ 153A-122 and 153A-145.7, it shall be lawful
to sell or consume alcoholic beverages beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday
morning in any unincorporated areas within the county pursuant to G.S. § 18B-
1004(c), as authorized by the licensed premises’ permit issued under G.S. §
18B-1001.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2017)
§ 30.02  CONCEALED WEAPONS PROHIBITED IN COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The County Manager is hereby ordered to
post appropriate signage on each park, building, or portion of a building now
or hereafter owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed, or
controlled by the county, as well as the appurtenant premises to such buildings
indicating that concealed handguns are prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Said signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior
of each entrance by which the general public can access the building,
appurtenant premises, or park. The County Manager shall exercise discretion in
determining the necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on
the interior of the building, appurtenant premises, or park.
(Ord. passed 11-6-1995)
CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS
§ 30.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Warren County
Criminal History Check Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 30.16  PURPOSE.
   (A)    The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the county with policies
and procedures for conducting criminal history checks through SBI/DCI for
specific statutorily-authorized purposes. This subchapter is adopted pursuant
to the authority vested in the county by the state’s General Assembly in G.S.
§§ 153A-11 and 153A-12.
   (B)   In order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the county and their properties, the procedures herein are
established to provide for fingerprinting and state-wide criminal history
checks under the following circumstances.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 30.17  CHECKS FOR EMPLOYMENT APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The County Manager or his or her designee, by and through the County
Sheriff, may conduct an investigation of any final candidate for a full-time or
part-time position with the county government, and it shall be a precondition
of employment that an applicant for such a position shall, upon request,
provide fingerprints and all other necessary personal identifying information
including a birth certificate, Social Security, and driver’s license or state
or federal identification card, if available. If a driver’s license or state or
federal identification card is unavailable, the applicant may be required to
produce a passport or military identification. Such personal identifying
information shall be used by the Sheriff to make a thorough search of local and
statewide criminal records to determine if the applicant has a history of
criminal convictions by use of the Division of Criminal Information Network
(DCI).
   (B)   The Sheriff shall provide the findings from the use of the DCI to the
County Manager, or his or her designee, provided that all necessary agreements
with the state’s Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal Information have
been executed.
   (C)   Employment may be denied to those persons convicted of any crime
against a person, or crimes against property where intent is an element, or any
drug or gambling related offense. In addition, employment may also be denied to
those persons convicted of a DUI/DWI who has applied for any county position
that would require the candidate to drive a county vehicle and/or to transport
persons on behalf of the county.
   (D)   An evaluation of any crime for the purposes of employment will take
into account the nature and the circumstances of the offense and the time frame
of the offense as it relates to the essential job functions or the position
applied for.
   (E)   Prior to denial or termination of employment based upon criminal
history record information (CHRI) received by the Sheriff, the County Manager
(or his or her designee) shall verify the existence of the record by either
obtaining a certified public record or by submitting a fingerprint card of the
individual to the criminal information and identification section for
verification that the CHRI record belongs to the individual.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
§ 30.18  CHECKS FOR PAWN SHOP APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an applicant’s fully completed county petition for
pawn broker permit, the Sheriff shall conduct an investigation of any and all
person(s) applying for a pawnbroker license/permit and it shall be a
precondition of a pawnbroker license/permit being issued that an applicant
therefor shall, upon request, provide fingerprints and all other necessary
personal identifying information including a birth certificate, Social
Security, and driver’s license or state or federal identification card, if
available. If a driver’s license or state or federal identification card is
unavailable, the applicant may be required to produce a passport or military
identification. Such personal identifying information shall be used by the
Sheriff to make a thorough search of local and statewide criminal records to
determine if the applicant has a history of criminal convictions by use of the
Division of Criminal Information Network (DCI).
   (B)   The Sheriff shall provide the findings from the use of the DCI to the
County Manager or designee, provided that all necessary agreements with the
state’s Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal Information have been
executed.
   (C)   A pawnbroker license/permit may be denied to those persons convicted
of any crime against a person, or crimes against property where intent is an
element, or any drug or gambling related offense.
   (D)   An evaluation of any crime for the purposes of issuing a pawnbroker
license/permit will take into account the nature and the circumstances of the
offense and the time frame of the offense as it relates to the pawnbroker
license.
   (E)   Prior to denial or termination of a pawnbroker license/permit based
upon criminal history record information (CHRI) received from the Sheriff, the
County Manager or his or her designee shall verify the existence of the record
by either obtaining a certified public record or by submitting a fingerprint
card of the individual to the criminal information and identification section
for verification that the CHRI record belongs to the individual.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 30.30  STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
county or any part thereof, or threatening damage to or destruction of
property, the Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners is hereby
authorized and empowered under G.S. § 166A-19.31 to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in
order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the
county, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter
authorized.
   (C)   The Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to limit, by
proclamation, the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the county and to specific
hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any part of such
restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of their
respective duties: law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public
employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and
other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal;
on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within the county.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.31  PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners, by proclamation,
may impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
30.32 to
30.36 in the manner described in those sections. The Chairperson may impose as
many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she finds are
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services, and to protect lives, safety, and property. The Chairperson
shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the county courthouse. The
Chairperson shall retain a text of the proclamation and furnish, upon request,
certified copies of it for use as evidence.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.32  CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain
areas and during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not
a member of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical
area or areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew
applies.
      (2)   The Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew
restrictions classes of people whose exemption the Chairperson finds necessary
for the preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare. The
proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which
each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Chairperson, by proclamation,
removes the curfew.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.33  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR TRANSFER OF INTOXICATING
LIQUOR.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale, or purchase of any
intoxicating liquor within the area of the county described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of
intoxicating liquor by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well
as by anyone else within the geographic area described.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.34  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession of
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the restrictions,
classes of people whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain
dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public
health, safety, or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device, explosive,
gasoline, or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a
threat of serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or distraction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and/or
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the county or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.35  RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his or her subordinates when directed in the proclamation to do
so by the Chairperson. When acting under this authority, the Sheriff and his or
her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway, or
location within the county if that restriction or denial of access or use is
reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or
to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.36  CONDUCT THAT MAY BE LIMITED BY PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions, the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.37  AMENDMENTS OF THE PROCLAMATION.
   The Chairperson may amend or extend the proclamation from time to time,
making such modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in
the original proclamation. The proclamation shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.38  REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Chairperson shall, by proclamation, remove the prohibitions and
restrictions as the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed to do
so by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.39  SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Chairperson, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this subchapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.40  IN CASE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, or such other person as may be
designated by the Board of Commissioners, shall have and exercise all of the
powers herein given the Chairperson.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.41  APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any
municipality, or within any area of the county over which the municipality has
jurisdiction to enact general police power ordinances, unless the municipality,
by resolution, consents to its application, in which event it shall apply to
such areas as fully and to the same extent as elsewhere in the county.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by §§
30.30 to
30.41 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
CHAPTER 31:  COUNTY ORGANIZATION
Section
Human Relations and Appearance Commission
   
31.01   Membership and appointment of Commission
   
31.02   Powers and duties of Commission
   
31.03   Staff services; Advisory Council
   
31.04   Annual report
   
31.05   Receipt and expenditure of funds
Emergency Management Office
   
31.20   Short title
   
31.21   Intent and purpose
   
31.22   Definitions
   
31.23   Organizations and appointments
   
31.24   Duties and responsibilities of the Coordinator
   
31.25   Emergency management plans
   
31.26   No municipal or private liability
   
31.27   Violations
Planning Board
   
31.40   Membership and vacancies
   
31.41   Organization, rules, meetings, and records
HUMAN RELATIONS AND APPEARANCE COMMISSION
§ 31.01  MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSION.
   Each municipality and county in the state may create a special Commission,
to be known as the Official Appearance Commission for the city or county. The
Commission shall consist of not less than seven nor more than 15 members, to be
appointed by the governing body of the municipality or county for such terms,
not to exceed four years, as the governing body may by ordinance provide. All
members shall be residents of the municipality’s or county’s area of planning
and zoning jurisdiction at the time of appointment. Where possible,
appointments shall be made in such a manner as to maintain on the Commission at
all times a majority of members who have had special training or experience in
a design field, such as architecture, landscape design, horticulture, city
planning, or a closely related field. Members of the Commission may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incidental to the performance of their duties
within the limits of any funds available to the Commission, but shall serve
without pay unless otherwise provided in the ordinance establishing the
Commission. Membership of the Commission is declared to be an office that may
be held concurrently with any other elective or appointive office pursuant to
Art. VI, § 9 of the Constitution.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1995)
§ 31.02  POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Commission, upon its appointment, shall make careful study of the visual
problems and needs of the municipality or county within its area of zoning
jurisdiction, and shall make any plans and carry out any programs that will, in
accordance with the powers herein granted, enhance and improve the visual
quality and aesthetic characteristics of the municipality or county. To this
end, the governing board may confer upon the Appearance Commission the . . .
MISSING MATERIAL
   (C)   To formulate and recommend to the appropriate municipal planning or
governing board the adoption or amendment of ordinances (including the zoning
ordinance, subdivision regulations, and other local ordinances regulating the
use of property) that will, in the opinion of the Commission, serve to enhance
the appearance of the municipality and its surrounding areas;
   (D)   To direct the attention of city or county officials to needed
enforcement of any ordinance that may in any way affect the appearance of the
city or county;
   (E)   To seek voluntary adherence to the standards and policies of its
plans;
   (F)   To enter, in the performance of its official duties and at reasonable
times, upon private lands and make examinations or surveys;
   (G)   To promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, studies, and plans, and to that end to prepare, publish, and
distribute to the public such studies and reports as will, in the opinion of
the Commission, advance the cause of improved municipal or county appearance;
and
   (H)   To conduct public meetings and hearings, giving reasonable notice to
the public thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1995)
§ 31.03  STAFF SERVICES; ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The Commission may recommend to the municipal or county governing board
suitable arrangements for the procurement or provision of staff or technical
services for the Commission, and the governing board may appropriate such
amount as it deems necessary to carry out the purposes for which it was
created. The Commission may establish an advisory council or other committees.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1995)
§ 31.04  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall, no later that April 15 of each year, submit to the
municipal or county governing body a written report of its activities, a
statement of its expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and its
requested budget for the next fiscal year. All accounts and funds of the
Commission shall be administered by the Municipal Fiscal Control Act or the
County Fiscal Control Act.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1995)
§ 31.05  RECEIPT AND EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission may receive contributions from private agencies,
foundations, organizations, individuals, the state or federal government, or
any other source, in addition to any sums appropriated for its use by the city
or county governing body. It may accept and disburse these funds for any
purpose within the scope of its authority as herein specified.
   (B)   All sums appropriated by the city or county to further the work and
purposes of the Commission are deemed to be for a public purpose and a
necessary expense:
      (1)   To initiate, promote, and assist in the implementation of programs
of general community beautification in the municipality or county;
      (2)   To seek to coordinate the activities of individuals, agencies, and
organizations, public and private, whose plans, activities, and programs bear
upon the appearance of the municipality or county;
      (3)   To provide leadership and guidance in matters of area or community
design and appearance to individuals, and to public and private organizations
and agencies;
      (4)   To make studies of visual characteristics and problems of the
municipality or county, including surveys and inventories of an appropriate
nature, and to recommend standards and policies of design for the entire area,
any portion or neighborhood thereof, or any project to be undertaken;
      (5)   To prepare both general and specific plans for the improved
appearance of the municipality or county. These plans may include the entire
area or any part thereof, and may include private as well as public property.
The plans shall set forth desirable standards and goals for the aesthetic
enhancement of the municipality or county or any part thereof within its area
of planning and zoning jurisdiction, including public ways and area, open
spaces, and public and private buildings and projects;
      (6)   To participate, in any way deemed appropriate by the governing body
of the municipality or county and specified in the ordinance establishing the
Commission, in the implementation of its plans. To this end, the governing body
may include in the ordinance the following powers:
         (a)   To request from the proper officials of any public agency or
body, including agencies of the state and its political subdivisions, its plans
for public buildings, facilities, or projects to be located within the
municipality or its area of planning and zoning jurisdiction of the city or
county; and
         (b)   To review these plans and to make recommendations regarding
their aesthetic suitability to the appropriate agency, or to the municipal or
county planning or governing board. All plans shall be reviewed by the
Commission in a prompt and expeditious manner, and all recommendations of the
Commission with regard to any public project shall be made in writing. Copies
of the recommendation shall be transmitted promptly to the planning or
governing body of the city or county, and to the appropriate agency.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1995)
MISSING MATERIAL
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE
§ 31.20  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Emergency Management Ordinance for the County of Warren”.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.21  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to establish an office
that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the county’s
resources to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other disasters as
defined herein.
   (B)   The county’s Office of Emergency Management may be the coordinating
agency for all activity in connection with emergency management. It will be the
instrument through which the County Board of Commissioners may exercise the
authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in it during disaster
emergencies.
   (C)   This subchapter will not relieve any county department of the moral
responsibilities or authority given to it in the County Charter or by local
ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency
organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.22  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Direct or indirect assault against the county, its government, its
environs, or of the nation by the forces of a hostile nation or the agents
thereof, including assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear, chemical or
biological warfare, terrorism, or sabotage.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the County Emergency Management Agency,
appointed as prescribed in this subchapter.
   DISASTER. Includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy
attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic, accident,
chemical spill, or other impending or actual calamity endangering or
threatening to endanger health, life, or property of constituted government.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The basic government functions of maintaining the
public peace, health, and safety during an emergency. This term shall include
plans and preparations for protection and relief, recovery, and rehabilitation
from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or the agents
thereof, or a disaster as defined above. It shall not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment, and facilities of all
county departments, boards, councils, institutions, and commissions; and in
addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel, equipment, and facilities
contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons or agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified, and
appointed by the Coordinator of the County Emergency Management Agency and
assigned to participate in the emergency management activity.
   REGULATIONS. Include plans, programs, and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment, or facilities to the emergency
management agency without remuneration.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.23  ORGANIZATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An agency of emergency management within the executive department
of the county government under the direction of the County Board of
Commissioners, or its appointed agent. The agency head of the County Emergency
Management Agency shall be known as the Coordinator, and such assistants and
other employees as are deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the
Agency will be appointed;
      (2)   The employees and resources of all county departments, boards,
institutions, and councils shall participate in the emergency management
activities. Duties assigned to county departments shall be the same as or
similar to the normal duties of the department, where possible; and
      (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to, and accepted
by, the county.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners or its designated agent shall
appoint a Coordinator of the County Emergency Management Agency who shall be a
person well versed and trained in planning operations involving the activities
of many different agencies which will operate to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare in the event of danger from enemy action or disaster as
defined in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator may designate and appoint Deputy Coordinators to
assume the emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her
absence or inability to act.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.24  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the County Manager in regard
to all phases of emergency management activity. The Coordinator shall be
responsible for the planning, coordination, and operation of the emergency
management activities in the county. The Coordinator shall maintain liaison
with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of nearby political
subdivisions so as to ensure the most effective operation of the emergency
management plans.
   (B)   The Coordinator’s duties may include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency management
purposes;
      (2)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (3)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of building or other property for the use of such building or other
property for the emergency management purposes and designating suitable
buildings as public shelters;
      (4)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of enemy attack or disaster as defined herein, either impending or
present;
      (5)   Conducting public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation
of the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures, and operations; and
      (6)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activities.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.25  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Comprehensive emergency management plans may be adopted and maintained
by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparations of
these plans as it pertains to county organization, it is intended that the
services, equipment, and facilities and personnel of all existing departments
and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall
be the duty of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned
by these plans and to maintain their portions of the plans in a current state
of readiness at all times. These plans shall have the effect of law whenever a
disaster, as defined in this subchapter, has been proclaimed.
   (B)   The Coordinator may prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his or her own, for which
lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person
should designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of three
persons as successors to his or her position. The list will be in order of
succession and will nearly as possible designate persons best capable of
carrying out all assigned duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
plans shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
standing operating procedure to implement the plans for his or her service.
   (D)   Amendments to these plans shall be submitted to the Coordinator. If
approved, the Coordinator will then submit the amendments to the County Manager
for review prior to submission to the County Board of Commissioners with his or
her recommendation for its approval. Such amendments shall take effect 30 days
from the date of approval.
   (E)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek assistance
from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when of a
supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out such duties prior to, during, and after the
occurrence of a disaster. Such services from persons outside of government may
be accepted by local government on a volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be
enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.26  NO MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the county of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health, and safety, and
neither the county nor agents and representatives of same, or any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, or any of
the agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying with, or attempting to
comply with any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons or property as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the county the right to inspect,
designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending, or
practice disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any persons on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege, or other permission; or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.27  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained herein, or
to willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the emergency management
organization, as herein defined, in the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter or any plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1991)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.40  MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES.
   The Planning Board shall consist of five members and shall be appointed by
the County Board of Commissioners for a term of three years. Three ex officio
members shall be appointed by the County Board of Commissioners and shall be
those persons currently employed as the County Zoning Administrator, the County
Environmental Health Coordinator, and the County Economic Development Director.
Ex officio members shall perform advisory duties only and shall not be entitled
to vote on actions taken by the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1989)
§ 31.41  ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   There shall be a quorum of three members for the purpose of taking any
official action required by said ordinance to establish a planning board for
the county.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1989)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
      
52.   CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND ABANDONMENT OF WELLS
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Purpose and authority
   
50.02   Definitions
Storage and Disposal
   
50.15   Proper disposal of wastes
   
50.16   Weekly removal required
   
50.17   Garbage containers
   
50.18   Storage regulations
   
50.19   Bulk waste
   
50.20   Removal of airtight doors
   
50.21   Ways to dispose of solid waste
   
50.22   Discarding materials along streets
   
50.23   Construction wastes
   
50.24   Hazardous materials
   
50.25   Transporting wastes
   
50.26   Sharp materials
   
50.27   Open burning
Licensing Solid Waste Collectors
   
50.40   Application required
   
50.41   Term of license
   
50.42   Application form
   
50.43   Inspection
   
50.44   Issuance and denial of license
   
50.45   Quarterly report
   
50.46   Licensee account to be kept current
   
50.47   Vehicles and containers for transportation
   
50.48   Licensee violations
   
50.49   License transfer
Additional Regulations
   
50.60   Landfill management
   
50.61   Solid waste convenience centers
   
50.62   Recycling
   
50.63   Availability fee
   
50.64   User fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the storage, collection, and
disposal of solid waste in the county. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the
authority contained G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-132.1, 153A-136, 153A-274 to 153A-
278, and 153A-291 to 153A-293, and 130A-309.09, 130A-309.09A, 130A-309.09B, and
130A-309.09D. Unless otherwise indicated, the chapter applies to both publicly-
owned and privately-owned municipal solid waste management facilities located
in the county.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Board of Commissioners.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as furniture and other oversize
wastes whose large size precludes or complicates their handling by normal solid
waste collection, processing, or disposal methods.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste (or materials that have been
separated for the purpose of recycling) to a transfer station, processing
facility, or disposal facility.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by stores,
offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing activities,
excluding residential and industrial waste.
   COMMINGLED RECYCLING. “Mixed” recycling which accepts a wide range of
materials that reduces the amount of disposal garbage and does not require
sorting. Paper, metals, plastic, and the like, can be disposed of in one
container. Only clean recyclables may be placed in the commingle container.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations on buildings, or
other structures, but does not include inert debris, land-clearing debris, yard
debris, or used asphalt, asphalt mixed with dirt, sand, gravel, rock, concrete,
or similar non-hazardous material.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   ELECTRONIC RECYCLING. Personal computers, monitors, LCD screen/flat screen
monitors, VCRs, radios, stereos, DVD players, microwaves, power supplies,
rechargeable batteries, vacuums, banking equipment, telephones, pagers,
networking equipment, laptops, keyboards, mice, power cables, medical equipment
(non-hazardous), printers, copy machines, fax machines, cell phones,
transformers, scanners, portable electronic devices, servers, hubs, ink
cartridges, toner cartridges, remote modems, projectors, cameras, televisions,
and all electronics with a power cord.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid waste, or a combination of solid wastes, that because
of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   INCINERATION. The process of burning solid, semi-solid, or gaseous
combustible wastes of an inoffensive gas and a residue containing little or no
combustible material.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by industrial processes and
manufacturing.
   INERT DEBRIS. Solid waste that consists solely of material that is virtually
inert and that is likely to retain its physical and chemical structure under
expected conditions of disposal.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by educational, health
care, correctional, and other institutional facilities.
   LAND-CLEARING DEBRIS. Solid waste that is generated solely from land-
clearing activities.
   LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a disposal facility where waste is
placed in or on land and that is not a land treatment facility, a surface
impoundment, an injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage facility,
or a surface storage facility.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Any solid waste that is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment, or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining
hereto, or in the production or testing of biologicals, but does not include
any hazardous waste, radioactive waste, household waste as defined in 40 C.F.R.
§ 261.4(b)(1), or those substances excluded from the definition of “solid
waste” in this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the operation of
residential, commercial, industrial, governmental, or institutional
establishments that would normally be collected, processed, and disposed of
through a public or private solid waste management service. MUNICIPAL SOLID
WASTE does not include hazardous waste, sludge, or solid waste from mining or
agricultural operations.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any publicly- or privately-owned
solid waste management facility permitted by the Department that receives
municipal solid waste for processing treatment or disposal.
   PATHOLOGICAL WASTE. Human tissues, organs, body parts, and the carcasses and
body parts of any animals that were known to have been exposed to pathogens
that are potentially dangerous to humans during research, were used in the
production of biologicals or in vivo testing of pharmaceuticals, or that died
with a known or suspected disease transmissible to humans.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, unit
or local government, state agency, federal agency, or other legal entity.
   PROCESSING. Any technique designed to change the physical, chemical, or
biological character or composition of any solid waste so as to render it safe
for transport, amenable to recovery, storage, or recycling; safe for disposal;
or reduced in volume or concentration.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with
sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors and gases, such as kitchen
wastes, offal, and animal carcasses.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Waste containing any material, whether solid, liquid, or
gas, that emits ionizing radiation spontaneously.
   RECYCLING. The process by which solid waste or recovered materials are
collected, separated, or processed, and reused or returned to use in the form
of raw materials or products.
   REFUSE. Solid waste, other than garbage or ashes, from residences,
commercial establishments, and institutions.
   REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE. Blood and body fluids in individual containers in
volumes greater than 20 ml. microbiological waste, and pathological waste that
has not been treated pursuant to rules promulgated by the Department.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining material or energy resources
from discarded solid waste that no longer has any useful life in its present
form and preparing the solid waste for recycling.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A facility for disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with the rules concerning sanitary landfills
adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
   SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original, intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
   SEPTAGE. Solid waste that is a fluid mixture of untreated and partially
treated sewage solids, liquids, and sludge of human or domestic origin that is
removed from a septic tank system.
   SHARPS. Needles, syringes, and scalpel blades.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, institutional, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, waste
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, or any other waste
having similar characteristics and effects.
   SOLID WASTE.
      (1)   Any hazardous or non-hazardous garbage, refuse, or sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control
facility, domestic sewage and sludge generated by the treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems, and other material
that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or treated prior to
being discarded, or has served its original intended use and is generally
discarded, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial, and agricultural
operations, and from community activities.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Fecal waste from fowls and animals other than humans;
         (b)   Solid or dissolved material in: domestic sewage and sludge
generated by treatment thereof in sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and
disposal systems that are designed to discharge effluents to the surface
waters; irrigation return flows; and wastewater discharges and the sludge
incidental to and generated by treatment which are point sources subject to
permits granted under § 402 of the Water Pollution Control Act, as amended
(Pub. Law No. 92-500), and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the
Environmental Management Commission. However, any sludge that meets the
criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a solid waste for
purposes of this definition;
         (c)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Ch.
143, Art. 21A. However, any oils or the liquid hydrocarbons that meet the
criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a SOLID WASTE for the
purpose of this definition;
         (d)   Any source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined
by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 2011); or
         (e)   Mining refuse covered by the state’s Mining Act, G.S. §§ 74-46
to 74-68 and regulated by the state’s Mining Commission. However, any specific
mining waste that meets the criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also
be a SOLID WASTE for the purpose of this definition.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects or transports solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE CONVENIENCE CENTER. Any place owned, leased, or operated by the
county at which solid waste containers or recycling containers have been
placed.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A location at which solid waste is disposed of by
incineration, sanitary landfill, or other approved method.
   SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLE. Container used for the temporary storage of solid
waste while awaiting collection.
   SOURCE SEPARATION. Setting aside recyclable materials at their point of
generation by the generator.
   TIRE. A continuous solid or pneumatic rubber covering encircling the wheel
of a motor vehicle as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01.
   TRANSFER STATION. A site at which solid waste is concentrated for transport
to a processing facility or disposal site. A TRANSFER STATION may be fixed or
mobile.
   USED OIL. Any oil that has been refined from crude oil or synthetic oil and,
as a result of use, storage, or handling has become unsuitable for its original
purpose.
   WHITE GOODS. Inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water heaters,
freezers, and other similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
   YARD TRASH. Solid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
STORAGE AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.15  PROPER DISPOSAL OF WASTES.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property may deposit, store, or
permit to accumulate any solid waste on his or her property that is not stored
or disposed of in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16  WEEKLY REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   The owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property shall remove or cause
to be removed all solid waste from his or her property at least once each week
(seven-day period).
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17  GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   Garbage shall be stored only in a container that is durable, rust-resistant,
non-absorbent, watertight, and easily cleaned, with a close-fitting, fly-tight
cover in place, with adequate handles or bails to facilitate handling. The
capacity of the container may not exceed 32 gallons. Solid waste receptacles,
as defined by this chapter, may also be used for storage provided they meet the
requirements of this section. The number of containers shall be adequate to
store one week’s accumulation of garbage. Each container shall be kept clean so
that no odor or other nuisance condition exists.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18  STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   Refuse shall be stored in a manner that will resist harborage to rodents and
vermin and will not create a fire hazard. Regulated refuse under this section
includes, but is not limited to, lumber, boxes, barrels, bottles, cans, tires,
paper, cardboard, rags, old furniture and other bulky waste, and white goods.
Useful materials, such as firewood and building materials, may be stored on the
premises, provided they are stored in a safe manner at a reasonable height
above ground.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.19  BULK WASTE.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of a building or dwelling, other than
a licensed junk dealer, may place or leave, or cause to be placed or left,
outside the building or dwelling any bulky waste for longer than 72 hours.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20  REMOVAL OF AIRTIGHT DOORS.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any building or dwelling may leave
outside the building or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or unattended icebox, refrigerator, or other receptacle that has an
airtight door without first removing the door.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21  WAYS TO DISPOSE OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Solid waste shall be disposed of only in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a landfill approved by the Department;
      (2)   In an incinerator that has all required local, state, and federal
control permits; or
      (3)   By any other method, including recycling and resource recovery that
has been approved by the Department.
   (B)   In addition to the methods listed in division (A) above, refuse may be
disposed of in solid waste receptacles provided by the county.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.22  DISCARDING MATERIALS ALONG STREETS.
   No person may discard, dispose, leave, or dump any solid waste on or along
any street or highway or public or private property unless such solid waste is
placed in a receptacle or at a location designated for the deposit of solid
waste.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23  CONSTRUCTION WASTES.
   Construction wastes must be disposed of at disposal sites approved and
permitted by the Department.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Regulated medical hazardous and radioactive waste must be disposed of
according to written procedures approved by the Department.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25  TRANSPORTING WASTES.
   Any person collecting and transporting solid waste generated on such
person’s property for disposal at an approved disposal site shall comply with §
50.47 concerning vehicles and containers.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26  SHARP MATERIALS.
   All sharps shall be placed in a sealed, puncture-proof container prior to
disposal.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27  OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning of solid waste is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
LICENSING SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS
§ 50.40  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person, firm, and corporation engaged in the collection of garbage,
refuse, solid wastes, and recyclables in the county, except for one’s self,
one’s firm, or corporation, shall first make application to and secure from the
county an annual solid waste collection license per person, firm, or
corporation for the collection of garbage, refuse, solid wastes, and
recyclables. The exemption to this would be the company which the county
contracts with to operate the transfer station and convenience centers. The
Board shall adopt a solid waste collection license fee as a part of its annual
budget ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.41  TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be for one year, which shall be
for the fiscal year beginning July 1, and ending June 30, except that licenses
issued to collectors of garbage, refuse, solid wastes, and recyclables within a
fiscal year shall only be for a period beginning on the date such license
issued and ending the immediately following June 30.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.42  APPLICATION FORM.
   (A)   Applications for licenses to engage in the business of solid waste
collector shall be filed with the Public Works Director on a form approved by
the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The applicant shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and whether a sole
proprietorship, corporation, or partnership, with disclosure of the ownership
interests;
      (2)   A list of motor vehicle license tag numbers;
      (3)   Number of employees the applicant expects to use in the business;
      (4)   Experience of the applicant in solid waste collection;
      (5)   Planned routes and areas of the county the applicant expects to
serve;
      (6)   Evidence of liability insurance; and
      (7)   Name and location of the facility where collected waste is to be
disposed.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.43  INSPECTION.
   Before issuing a license pursuant to this section, the Public Works Director
shall inspect or cause to be inspected all facilities and equipment the
applicant plans to use in the solid waste collection business.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.44  ISSUANCE AND DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may issue the applicant a license only when
he or she finds that the applicant’s facilities, equipment, and proposed
operating methods are in compliance with this chapter and applicable rules of
the Department and that the applicant will perform solid waste collection in an
efficient and sanitary manner. A condition of the license shall be that the
licensee shall serve every person who contracts with him or her for solid waste
collection in such a manner that the licensee does not cause the person to be
in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   If the Public Works Director denies an applicant a license, the
applicant may request a hearing, in writing, before the County Manager, within
seven business days from the date the applicant was denied a license. The
County Manager shall keep summary minutes of the hearing and, within seven
business days, shall give the applicant written notice of a decision either
granting the license or affirming the denial of the license.
      (2)   The applicant may appeal the County Manager’s decision to the Board
of County Commissioners by giving written notice of appeal to the County
Manager within seven business days of receipt of the County Manager’s decision
following the hearing. After a hearing on the appeal, the Board shall either
affirm the denial or direct the Public Works Director to issue the license.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.45  QUARTERLY REPORT.
   A licensee shall submit a quarterly report to the Public Works Director
containing the following information:
   (A)   Number of customers added or deleted;
   (B)   Changes in routes;
   (C)   New and replacement equipment; and
   (D)   Any other information requested by the Public Works Director and
pertinent to the solid waste collection business.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.46  LICENSEE ACCOUNT TO BE KEPT CURRENT.
   A licensee must keep his or her solid waste account current; the account
cannot be 60 days past due. If the account is 60 days past due, dumping
privileges and/or licenses will be suspended until payment is made in full.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.47  VEHICLES AND CONTAINERS FOR TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Vehicles and containers used for the collection and transportation of
solid waste shall be covered, leak proof, durable, and easily cleaned. They
shall be cleaned as often as necessary to prevent a nuisance and insect
breeding and shall be maintained in good repair.
   (B)   Vehicles and containers used for the collection and transportation of
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill, and shall be covered to prevent the blowing of
material. If spillage or leakage should occur, the material shall be recovered
immediately by the licensee and returned to the vehicle or container, and then
properly cleaned.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.48  LICENSEE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When the Public Works Director finds that a licensee has violated this
chapter or the conditions of the license, the Public Works Director shall give
the licensee written notice of the violation. The licensee must correct the
violation within ten business days of receipt of the notice. Failure to correct
the violation within the allotted time shall result in a temporary suspension
of the license for a period of 30 days.
   (B)   The Public Works Director will provide written notice of the
suspension to the licensee. Upon notification of suspension, the licensee shall
stop collecting, transporting, or disposing of solid waste. At the end of the
suspension period, if the violation has not been corrected, the license shall
be revoked. The Public Works Director may reinstate a revoked license after the
revocation has been in effect for 30 days if he or she finds the violation has
been corrected. If the licensee commits a second violation within 30 days of
the first violation, the license shall be revoked for the remainder of the
fiscal year. Upon receipt of the notice of revocation, the licensee shall stop
collecting, transporting, or disposing of solid waste.
   (C)   A licensee whose license has been revoked may appeal the revocation to
the Board of County Commissioners by giving written notice of appeal to the
County Manager within ten business days of receiving notice of revocation from
the Public Works Director. After a hearing on the appeal, the Board shall
either affirm the revocation or direct the Public Works Director to reinstate
the license.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.49  LICENSE TRANSFER.
   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assignable. Any
violation of this provision will result in revocation of the license for the
remainder of the fiscal year.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 50.60  LANDFILL MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The county landfill may be used for the disposal of solid waste
by county residents. The landfill shall be open during business hours as
established by the Board. In emergencies, the landfill may be opened for
additional hours as directed by the County Manager or the Manager’s
representative.
      (2)   Except when open during regular business hours, the landfill shall
be kept locked and entry shall not be permitted. Solid waste shall be disposed
of at the landfill in the manner and according to procedures established by the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   The landfill facility shall include the following disposal entities.
      (1)   Solid waste transfer station. For the collection and shipping of
appropriate waste to a disposal facility. The operation of the county solid
waste transfer station is regulated by the state’s Department of Environment
and Natural Resources, Solid Waste Section, and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency. Therefore, the Public Works Director shall have the
authority to determine what types of waste can be deposited at the solid waste
transfer station in accordance with the most current county, state, and federal
rules and regulations governing such disposal. Hours of operation are Monday
through Friday 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
      (2)   Land clearing and inert debris. Disposal area for inert materials.
This is a beneficial fill dumping area which can accept brick, block, concrete,
and asphalt. No painted material will be accepted.
      (3)   White goods collection area. For the collection and safe removal of
chlorofluorocarbons from white goods.
      (4)   Scrap tire holding areas. For the holding of scrap tires for
eventual shipping to appropriate disposal facility.
      (5)   Recycling depot. Electronic recyclable materials.
   (C)   The following wastes may not be disposed of in the county transfer
station:
      (1)   Burning or smoldering materials, or any other materials that would
create a fire hazard;
      (2)   Hazardous waste;
      (3)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (4)   Liquid waste;
      (5)   Untreated regulated medical waste;
      (6)   Radioactive waste;
      (7)   Scrap tires; unless they have been halved or shredded;
      (8)   Used oil;
      (9)   White goods;
      (10)   Yard trash; or
      (11)   Inert debris.
   (D)   The following wastes may be accepted on a conditional basis only
(state regulations require that these wastes receive special treatment before
they are placed in a landfill):
      (1)   Asbestos must be contained in heavy-duty double bags; and
      (2)   Barrels must be punctured with no liquids.
   (E)   The Public Works Director or his or her designee shall have the right
to refuse use of the transfer station or inert debris landfill to anyone who
delivers waste to the station or landfill in a manner which makes it difficult
to unload in a safe or sanitary manner.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.61  SOLID WASTE CONVENIENCE CENTERS.
   (A)   Solid waste convenience centers are maintained throughout the county
on land owned or leased by the county for the convenience of county residents.
Daily household trash/solid waste may be deposited in the receptacles only in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The following wastes may not be deposited in containers at the
convenience centers:
      (1)   Asbestos;
      (2)   Burning or smoldering materials, or any other materials that would
create a fire hazard;
      (3)   Commercial waste;
      (4)   Construction waste;
      (5)   Hazardous waste;
      (6)   Industrial waste;
      (7)   Institutional waste;
      (8)   Lead-acid batteries (recycle only);
      (9)   Liquid waste;
      (10)   Radioactive waste;
      (11)   Regulated medical waste;
      (12)   Tires (recycle at transfer station);
      (13)   Used oil (recycle only);
      (14)   White goods (recycle only);
      (15)   Yard trash;
      (16)   Sludge; and
      (17)   Barrels (transfer station only).
   (C)   All solid waste intended for disposal at convenience centers shall be
deposited inside the container. No solid waste may be left outside the
receptacle.
   (D)   No person may remove any item from a solid waste container, climb on
or into a container, or damage any container.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.62  RECYCLING.
   G.S. § 130A-309.09B requires counties with permits from the Department of
Solid Waste Management facilities to implement recycling programs.
   (A)   Recycling. Each person who owns, leases, or manages a residence,
residential unit, or place of business, industry, commerce, or other place
providing goods or services, or institution, church, or school should remove
recyclable materials from the solid waste generated and make them available for
recycling.
   (B)   Ownership of recyclable materials.
      (1)   After recyclable materials have been placed in designated
containers at a convenience center designated by the county or its authorized
agent, the recyclable materials shall become the property of the county or its
authorized agent.
      (2)   No person, other than a county employee or the county’s authorized
agent, may remove recyclable material from a recycling collection center.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.63  AVAILABILITY FEE.
   (A)   Annual fee.
      (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-292(b), an annual fee shall be
imposed on all improved properties in the county that benefits from the
availability of the convenience centers and landfill facility.
      (2)   This fee is to be imposed to recover the costs of operating the
recycling/convenience center system throughout the rural county and to recover
the costs of siting, constructing, operating, and maintaining solid waste
sorting, reduction, and disposal facilities. This fee shall be imposed on all
dwelling units and individual businesses located in areas outside the
incorporated areas of the county which do not have a recognized licensed
private contractor. Said fee shall be determined annually by the Board of
Commissioners and adopted as part of its budget ordinance.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Property owners who make a formal request to be exempt and are
served by a licensed private contractor, who collects and disposes of solid
waste but not recyclables in a private facility outside the county, or pays a
tipping fee at the transfer station, will be charged a modified availability/
household user fee. Said fee shall be determined annually by the Board of
Commissioners and adopted as part of its budget ordinance;
      (2)   Property that is not habitable or not in use during the fiscal year
for activities which would generate solid waste; and
      (3)   Property owners within the municipalities of Norlina, Warrenton,
and Macon whose solid waste is collected by the municipality which already pays
a fee to the county for the availability and use of its disposal facility.
   (C)   Certification. No exemption shall be granted without proper
documentation by the property owner. Tax payers will have until December 1 to
submit to the Tax Assessor’s Office evidence for exemption(s) as follows:
      (1)   Valid contract with a private hauler that disposes of solid waste
collected outside of the county or who pays a tipping fee at the transfer
station. The contract must have been effective on July 1 of the fiscal year in
which the tax bill was issued; or
      (2)   Verification by the Tax Assessor’s Office that there is no
electrical service to the property.
   (D)   Billing. In accordance with G.S. § 153A-292, property owners will be
billed for the availability fee along with the annual property tax billing,
will be payable in the same manner as property taxes, and in case of
nonpayment, may be collected in any manner by which delinquent personal or real
property taxes can be collected.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.64  USER FEES.
   The following solid waste user fees are imposed by the county. The Board
shall adopt a solid waste user fee schedule as a part of its annual budget
ordinance.
   (A)   Transfer station tipping fee. A transfer station tipping fee shall be
assessed per ton or per cubic yard if scales are not available or inoperable
for all waste brought to the county landfill.
   (B)   Inert debris tipping fee. An inert debris tipping fee shall be
assessed per ton or per cubic yard on all disposable inert debris, yard waste,
and land-clearing debris which is brought to the landfill completely separate
from any type of solid waste prohibited in the LCID landfill.
   (C)   Household user fee.
      (1)   Availability/household user fee per annum for all households or
businesses are not subject to municipal taxation.
      (2)   Modified availability/household user fee per annum for households
with a private contractor to cover recycling cost.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days, or both. Each day’s violation shall be treated as a
separate offense.
   (B)   Civil penalty. Any person who is found in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed $500, as provided in G.S.
§ 153A-123. Each day’s violation shall be treated as a separate offense.
   (C)   Remedies. This chapter may be enforced by equitable remedies, and any
unlawful condition existing or in violation of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction and order of abatement in accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Declaration of voluntary conservation
   
51.04   Declaration of mandatory conservation
   
51.05   Declaration of a water shortage emergency
   
51.06   Declaration of rationing
   
51.07   Objectives of rationing
   
51.08   Water use rationing for residential users
   
51.09   Water use rationing for nonresidential water users
   
51.10   Water use rationing for hospitals and health care facilities
   
51.11   Enforcement of water rationing
   
51.12   Shortage water rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Conservation measures
§ 51.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the county’s water
distribution system in the event a shortage is declared.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over any
applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
chapter.
   ANY WATER. Any type of water, including fresh water, wastewater, or
reclaimed water.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the county regional
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
this case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   EMERGENCY. When water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal
needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this chapter for
that customer over an applicable period.
   FRESH WATER. Water withdrawn from surface or ground water that has not been
previously used.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. When raw water supplies (i.e., stream flows,
reservoir levels, or ground water levels) are consistently below seasonal
averages, and if they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal
needs.
   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Includes commercial, industrial, institutional,
public, and all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health
care facilities.
   RATIONING. Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Wastewater that has been treated to allow reuse.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Any customers who receive water service for a single
or multi- family dwelling unit. The term RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER does not include
educational or other institutions, hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishments.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The temporary suspension of water supply, or reduction
of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer, portion
of a water supply, or entire system.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. When conditions exist which indicate the potential
for serious water supply shortages.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to, permitting water to escape
down a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain, or failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   WASTEWATER. Water which has been previously used for industrial, municipal,
domestic, or other purpose, and has not been returned to the surface or ground
water source.
   WATER. Water available to the county by virtue of its water rights or
contract, or any treated water introduced by the county into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale.
   WATER USE CLASSES. Are established as follows.
      (1)   Class 1: Essential water uses.
         (a)   Domestic use. Water necessary to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation.
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation,
including swimming pools used for patient care and rehabilitation.
         (c)   Public use.
            1.   Fire hydrants.
               a.   Firefighting; and
               b.   Certain testing and drills by the Fire Department if
performed in the interest of public safety and if approved by the county’s
Public Utilities Department.
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants. As needed to ensure public
health and safety.
      (2)   Class 2: Socially or economically important uses of water.
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3.
            1.   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom, and laundry use;
            2.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            3.   Watering of trees where necessary to preserve them.
         (b)   Commercial, agricultural, industrial, and institutional uses.
            1.   Outdoor commercial watering, public or private, using
conservation measures and to the extent that sources of water other than fresh
water are not available to use;
            2.   Irrigation for commercial vegetable gardens and fruit orchards
or the maintenance of livestock;
            3.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock;
            4.   Water use by arboretums and public gardens or national, state,
or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            5.   Use of fresh water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
vegetation following earth moving, where such vegetation is required by law or
regulation;
            6.   Watering of golf course greens;
            7.   Filling and operation of swimming pools:
               a.   Residential pools which serve more than 25 dwelling units;
               b.   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation; and
               c.   Municipal pools.
            8.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            9.   Commercial laundromats;
            10.   Restaurants, clubs, and eating places;
            11.   Air conditioning:
               a.   Refilling for start up at the beginning of the cooling
season;
               b.   Make-up of water during the cooling season; and
               c.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
            12.   Schools, churches, motels/hotels, and similar commercial
establishments.
      (3)   Class 3: Non-essential uses of water.
         (a)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
         (b)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private).
            1.   Gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens), playing
fields and other recreational areas;
            2.   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools which
serve fewer than 25 dwellings;
            3.   Non-commercial washing motor vehicles;
            4.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places except
by specific request; and
            5.   Air conditioning, including refilling cooling towers after
draining except as specified in Class 1.
         (c)   Public use.
            1.   Fire hydrant use for any purpose, including use of sprinkler
caps and testing fire apparatus and for Fire Department drills, except as
listed Class 1; and
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as listed in Class 1.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.03  DECLARATION OF VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Whenever the County Manager is informed by the Public Utilities
Director that either the drinking water supply is limited or that a potential
shortage of raw water supply is indicated, the governing body shall be
empowered to declare by adoption of this chapter that voluntary conservation
conditions exist. The Public Utilities Director or ORC of the county regional
water system shall, on a daily basis, monitor the supply and demand upon that
supply.
   (B)   In addition, the County Manager or his or her agent is authorized to
call upon all water customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures
(see addendum) to limit water use, especially Class 3 uses, and eliminate the
waste of water. This resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area which qualifies under G.S. § 1-597, and may be
publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate method for
making such resolutions public.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.04  DECLARATION OF MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The County Manager is hereby authorized to impose mandatory water
restrictions, as described below, on the usage of water obtained directly or
indirectly from the county regional water distribution system by declaring that
mandatory conservation conditions exist. This declaration shall be based on
written recommendations from the Public Utilities Director that conditions
exist such that a water shortage is imminent.
   (B)   These restrictions may be imposed by the County Manager after
consideration of all the following factors:
      (1)   The water level in Kerr Lake is nearing elevation 290. This implies
that the lake level is nearing a level where insufficient water can enter the
raw water intake;
      (2)   Water pressure at monitoring locations of the county regional water
system;
      (3)   Ability to fill elevated water tanks of the county regional water
system; and
      (4)   Ability to maintain minimum water pressure standards in the entire
county regional water system.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.05  DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of the county finds that raw water
supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal water supply needs and
that serious shortages exist, it shall be empowered to declare, by adoption of
an ordinance, that a water shortage emergency exists.
   (B)   Class 1, essential uses shall be identified, specifically, as targets
for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all Class 2, socially or
economically important uses shall be banned in addition to the Class 3, non-
essential uses.
   (C)   These restrictions shall continue until the emergency is declared
ended by ordinance of the governing body. Publication of these ordinances shall
follow the provisions in §
51.03.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.06  DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   Whenever the governing body of the county has declared a water shortage
emergency and finds a need to provide for the equitable distribution of
critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to provide for
mandatory rationing by adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.07  OBJECTIVES OF RATIONING.
   This section provides for mandatory rationing and shall state findings that:
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation, and to provide fire protection service;
   (B)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step along a
continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should shortages
continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be emphasized
that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid and
attainable goal reflective of the conditions that currently exist; and
   (C)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this chapter
depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency area.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.08  WATER USE RATIONING FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   Metered residential water customers and allotments.
      (1)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 100 gallons per
day for each resident of the household.
      (3)   Residential water customers are required to provide the county and
utility personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to this
rationing declaration. Where access is not readily available, all reasonable
efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to read meters
shall be made. In the event a water customer does not allow entry to read the
meter after reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the dwelling unit
(household) allotment may be further reduced from 100 gallons per day at the
discretion of the Public Utilities Director in consultation with the system
ORC.
      (4)   If it is found that the residential water allotment provided under
this section would create an extraordinary hardship for individual customers;
as in the case of special health-related requirements, a revised allotment for
the particular customer may be established; any person aggrieved by a decision
relating to such an exemption or variance may file a complaint with the County
Manager or his or her agent in accordance with the county’s normal
administrative procedures.
   (B)   Non-metered residential water customers and allotments.
      (1)   In order to effectively implement and monitor the residential water
conservation effort, a water allotment shall be established for the entire
water system based on 65 gallons per day per capita served or 50% of the water
use by the entire system during last meter recording as notified individuals by
the county.
      (2)   The county and the utility will establish a communication system
with the customers through public media to inform them of the requirements of
the water rationing provisions of this chapter, possible conservation measures
that customers may employ, the system allotment, and a regularly scheduled
report of whether the usage was within the allotment.
   (C)   Metered and non-metered residential customers of the same water supply
system. Where a water supply system serves both metered and non-metered
residential customers, the allotments and procedures provided under both
divisions (A) and (B) above shall be applied, as appropriate.
   (D)   Suggested conservation measures. See addendum.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.09  WATER USE RATIONING FOR NONRESIDENTIAL WATER USERS.
   (A)   Nonresidential customers include commercial, industrial, public, and
all other such users with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   (B)   Nonresidential water customers shall further reduce their water usage
to 65 gallons per person per day or to 50% of use levels during last metered
recording.
   (C)   It is the primary responsibility of each nonresidential water customer
to meet the mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner possible,
including limitation of operating hours or days if necessary.
   (D)   The county will establish a water allotment for each nonresidential
water customer, based upon a required further reduction water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer at the last recorded use level.
   (E)   Each nonresidential water user shall provide access to the county’s
personnel for the purpose of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with
this chapter. All reasonable efforts will be made to contact customers to
arrange for access.
   (F)   (1)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be
obtained without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and
safety, the nonresidential customer may apply to the county for a variance. For
these purposes, EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent damage to property or
an economic loss which is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne
by other water users subject to this chapter. If the further reduction would
cause an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or safety, a variance may be
granted by the County Manager, and a revised water use reduction requirement
for the particular customer may be established.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance may
file a complaint with the County Manager in accordance with established
procedures. Decisions rendered by the County Manager may be appealed to the
County Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   The county will provide each nonresidential customer with suggested
means to reduce usage levels. (See addendum.)
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.10  WATER USE RATIONING FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and nonresidential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the institution.
   (B)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents
to achieve a further reduction in the institution’s water usage.
   (C)   The county will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels. (See addendum.)
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.11  ENFORCEMENT OF WATER RATIONING.
   (A)   The county or its water utility will have primary responsibility for
monitoring compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementation of temporary
service interruptions.
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this chapter, the county is
hereby authorized to plan and implement temporary service interruption to all
or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed appropriate, when any or
all of the following conditions are determined to exist:
         (a)   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved;
         (b)   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; and/or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   In the event it is determined that temporary service interruptions
are necessary, the county shall notify its customers through the public media
(e.g., newspapers, radio, and television), at least one day prior to the
temporary service interruptions, that a planned, temporary service interruption
is to be imposed. Such notice shall:
         (a)   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruption will occur;
         (b)   State the time(s) when such planned, temporary service
interruptions will commence and the time(s) such interruption will cease;
         (c)   State whether the planned, temporary service interruptions are
to be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and, if only part(s) of
the system will experience planned, temporary service interruptions will occur;
and
         (d)   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the period(s) of such interruptions and
for such additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to
the system.
      (3)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized by this chapter, the county must provide for the continued delivery
of water to health care facilities within the area(s) affected by such
interruptions, by means of any adequate, alternative delivery measures that may
be necessary.
      (4)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is implemented, the
county must make provisions, by any reasonable means possible, for the
continued delivery of such water as may be necessary for the proper operation
of sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   In addition to the assessment of an administrative fine, non-
compliance with the water rationing provisions of this chapter will result in
the following.
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
      (2)   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours, or, if the
customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the customer’s
service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt
or shut off and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor,
shall be assessed to the water customer. Before service to an individual may be
terminated under this provision, actual notice of the intent to discontinue
shall be given, which shall include notice that the customer may appear at a
designated time and place, within 24 hours, for an informal hearing to show why
service should not be discontinued.
   (D)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an administrative fine or other remedy for non-compliance with the
requirements of this chapter may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   The customer or aggrieved party shall file a letter of appeal to
the County Manager within ten days of action to rebut the finding of a
violation, or provide evidence of circumstances beyond the customer’s control
that resulted in the violation.
      (2)   A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept,
and a written notice of the County Manager’s final decision and action in such
cases shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.12  SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage, as provided in §§
51.03 to
51.11, the governing body of the county shall have the power to adopt shortage
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   Such rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of used (uniform unit
rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specific levels.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to imply any limitations on the
county’s general rate adoption and/or amendment authority.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   If the County Manager, Director of Public Utilities, or other
county official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of
this chapter or a water supply shortage resolution learns of any violation of
any water use restriction imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of
the record shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and
mailed to the customer and to any other person known to the county who is
responsible for the violation or its correction. Said notice shall describe the
violation and order that is to be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or
within such specified time as the county determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the county may terminate
water service to the customer subject the following procedures:
         (a)   The county shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to
the violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and
that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by
requesting a hearing to be scheduled before the county’s governing body or a
county official designated as a hearing officer by the governing body;
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
         (c)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of
fact and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (2)   A fee of $100 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service terminated pursuant to division (A)(1) above. In the event of
subsequent violation(s) the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second
violation, and $300 for each additional violation.
      (3)   Any customer may also be charged with any willful violation of this
chapter and prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged and found
guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty for violation shall be a maximum fine of $100 and/or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days.
   (B)   Any residential or nonresidential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to the
following penalty: an administrative fine not to exceed $100 will be assessed
per violation if a customer’s water use exceeds the water allotments
established pursuant to the local water rationing declaration schedule.
   (C)   In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution, violation of this
chapter may subject the offender to civil penalties in the amounts provided or
otherwise an amount of $50 per day, collectible in a civil action in the nature
of debt.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
APPENDIX:  CONSERVATION MEASURES
Direct users to adopt the following conservation measures:
INDOOR RESIDENTIAL USE:
CONSERVATION FOR VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION PHASES:
   •   Use dishwashers only when they are full. Washing dishes by hand (don’t
let the tap run!) Saves about 25 gallons.
   •   Adjust water level on clothes washing machines, if possible. Use full
load only, if not adjustable.
   •   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth, etc. Saves about 5 gallons per
day.
   •   Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank displacement
inserts. A plastic jug may often be used as an alternative. DO NOT USE BRICKS -
they disintegrate when soaked and the resulting grit hinders closing of the
flap valve.
   •   Do not use the toilet as a trash can.
   •   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
   •   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking.
   •   Find and fix leaks in faucets and water-using appliances. Faucets can
usually be fixed cheaply and quickly by replacing washers.
   •   Learn to read your water meter so you can judge how much water you use
and what difference conservation makes.
   •   Take shorter showers and shallow baths. Saves about 25 gallons.
   •   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses about 5
gallons (2-3 if you have water saving toilets).
   •   Don’t use a garbage disposal.
   •   Use non-phosphate detergent and save laundry water for lawns and plants.
CONSERVATION FOR EMERGENCY CONSERVATION OR RATIONING PHASE (in addition to
measures listed above):
   •   Turn off shower while soaping up.
   •   Use disposable eating utensils.
OUTDOOR RESIDENTIAL USE
CONSERVATION FOR NORMAL CONDITIONS AND VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION PHASE:
Lawns:
   •   Water before 10:00 a.m. to prevent evaporation that occurs during the
hottest part of the day. Morning is better than evening, when the dampness
encourages growth of fungus.
   •   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs back when
stepped on does not need water.
   •   Water thoroughly, not frequently: long enough to soak roots. A light
sprinkling evaporates quickly and encourages shallow root systems. Water slowly
to avoid runoff.
   •   Don’t let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary. In an hour, 600
gallons can be wasted.
   •   Allow maximum of one inch of water per week on your lawn. To measure,
place cake tins outside to collect rain and water from sprinklers.
   •   Use pistol-grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering flowers
and shrubs.
   •   Aerate lawns by punching holes 6 inches apart. This allows water to
reach roots rather than run off surfaces.
   •   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
   •   Avoid watering on windy days when the wind not only blows water off
target, but also causes excess evaporation.
   •   Keep sprinkler heads clean to prevent uneven watering.
   •   Adjust hose to simulate gentle rain. Sprinklers that produce a fine mist
waste water through evaporation.
   •   Know how to turn off an automatic sprinkler system in case of rain.
   •   Use an alarm clock or stove timer to remind you to shut off sprinklers
that don’t have timers.
Vegetables and Flower Gardens:
   •   Water deeply, slowly and weekly. Most vegetables require moisture to a
depth of 6 to 8 inches.
   •   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
   •   Keep weeds out to reduce competition for water.
   •   Put the water where you want it and avoid evaporation by using soil-
soakers or slow running hoses, not sprinklers.
Trees and Shrubs:
   •   Water deeply using a soil-soaker or drip-irrigation.
   •   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by digging with
a trowel.
   •   Mulch to reduce evaporation. A 2" to 3" layer of wood chips, pine
needles, grass clippings or straw keeps the soil cool in summer.
   •   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
   •   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in shade.
   •   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
   •   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a plant’s need
for water.
   •   Postpone planting until fall or spring when there is generally less need
for water.
   •   Install trickle-drip irrigation systems close to the roots of your
plants. By dripping water slowly, the system doesn’t spray water in to the air.
Use soil probes for large trees.
   •   Water when cloudy, at night or even when a light rain is falling.
OUTDOOR RESIDENTIAL USE CONSERVATION FOR VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION PHASE (in
addition to measures listed above):
   •   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
   •   Limit car washing.
   •   Be ready to catch rainfall that occurs. Place containers under drain
sprouts.
   •   Use leftover household water if available.
   •   Consider delaying the seeding or sodding of new lawns.
   •   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing water
bills for summer and winter.
CONSERVATION FOR MANDATORY CONSERVATION PHASE (In addition to measures listed
above):
   •   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts of
water on an individual basis only.
   •   Do not water lawns and inedible plants.
   •   Do not use sprinklers.
Most outdoor watering is prohibited under Emergency Conservation conditions.
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE FACILITY USE:
   •   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing the linens, etc. only when
necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
   •   Use disposable food service items.
   •   Eliminate, postpone, or reduce, as they may be appropriate, elective
surgical procedures during the period of emergency.
INDUSTRIAL USE
   •   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment. Give
special attention to equipment connected directly to waterlines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners and furnaces.
   •   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are shut off
completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
   •   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water required
to achieve its stated purpose.
   •   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible; implement
lower water levels wherever possible.
   •   For processing, cooling, and other uses, either re-use water or use
water from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
   •   Advise employees, students, patients, customers, and other users not to
flush toilets unnecessarily. Install toilet tank displacement inserts; place
flow restrictors in showerheads and faucets; close down automatic flushes
overnight.
   •   Install automatic flushing valves to use as little water as possible or
to cycle at longer intervals.
   •   Place water-saving posters and literature where employees, students,
patients, customers’, etc. will have access to them.
   •   Check meters on a frequent basis to determine consumptive patterns.
   •   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 52:  CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND ABANDONMENT OF WELLS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Authorization
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Scope
   
52.04   Conflict with other regulations
   
52.05   Inspection
   
52.06   Appeals
   
52.07   Definitions
   
52.08   Driller registration
   
52.09   Permits
Standards of Construction for Water Supply Wells
   
52.20   Location
   
52.21   Source of water
   
52.22   Drilling and casing
   
52.23   Grouting
   
52.24   Large diameter wells
   
52.25   Well screens
   
52.26   Well development
   
52.27   Well identification plate
   
52.28   Well head completion and equipment
   
52.29   Suction pumping
Standards of Construction for Other than Water Supply
   
52.40   Location
   
52.41   Injection wells
   
52.42   Monitoring wells and recovery wells
   
52.43   Observation wells
Additional Regulations
   
52.55   Well tests for yield
   
52.56   Well chlorination
   
52.57   Well maintenance and repair
   
52.58   Abandoning wells
   
52.59   Records required
   
52.60   Diagrams and forms
   
52.61   Minimum casing depth for designated areas
   
52.62   Semi-public well water supplies
   
52.63   Variance
   
52.64   Minimum wall thickness for steel casing
   
52.65   Protecting drilled wells
   
52.66   Disinfection of wells
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  AUTHORIZATION.
   The County Board of Health is authorized under the provisions of G.S. Ch.
87, Art. 7 to adopt appropriate rules and regulations for the protection of the
public health.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.02  PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the responsibility to protect and advance the public health,
it is declared to be the policy of the County Board of Health to require that
the location, construction, repair, and abandonment of water supply wells
conform to such reasonable standards and requirements as may be necessary to
protect the public health and ground water resources.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.03  SCOPE.
   (A)   No person shall construct, repair, or abandon, or cause to be
constructed, repaired, or abandoned, any well contrary to the provisions of
these regulations and standards.
   (B)   Previously adopted procedures and requirements of the Health
Department are superseded by these regulations and standards.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of any federal, state, or municipal law or regulation
establishing standards affording greater protection to the public welfare,
safety, health, and the ground water resources shall prevail within the
jurisdiction of such agency or municipality over standards established by these
regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.05  INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before being used to supply water for human consumption, all newly
constructed wells shall be inspected and found to comply with the provisions of
this chapter. Any repairs to a well which necessitate breaking the well’s seal,
shall be inspected by the Health Department before use. The Health Department
shall make these inspections as soon as practicable after receiving notice that
an installation or repair has been made.
   (B)   Emergency repairs that are made outside normal working hours of the
Health Department (i.e., nights, week-ends, and holidays) shall be inspected on
the next regular working day or as soon as practicable thereafter.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.06  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any action of the Health Department representative
with regard to wells shall first confer with the local Health Director who may
affirm or reverse the original decision of the representative. If the person is
dissatisfied with the Health Director’s decision, he or she shall give a
written notice of appeal to the Health Director within 15 days after the
conference with the Health Director. The notice of appeal shall set forth the
person’s grievances. Upon receiving this notice, the Health Director shall,
within five working days, transmit to the Chairperson of the Board of Health
the notice and all other pertinent papers. The Board shall hold a hearing
within 15 days after it receives the notice of appeal. The Board shall give the
appellant no less than five days’ notice of the date, time, and place of the
hearing. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. No person
shall take any action prohibited by the Health Department until there is a
final resolution of the grievance.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.07  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To discontinue the use of and to seal the well according to the
requirements of §
52.58.
   ABANDONED WELL. A well whose use or construction has been discontinued, or
which is in such a state of disrepair that continued use for obtaining ground
water or other useful purpose is impracticable.
      (1)   PERMANENTLY ABANDONED WELL. Any well removed from or not yet put
into service; or whose use is impracticable because of faulty construction,
location, water quality, insufficient yield, unserviceable casing and screen;
or which has been removed from service because it no longer serves its intended
use.
      (2)   TEMPORARILY ABANDONED WELL. Any usable well whose use has been
temporarily discontinued because of well or pump maintenance problems and newly
constructed wells not yet put into service.
   ACCESS PORT. An opening in the well casing or well head installed for the
primary purpose of determining the water level in the well.
   AGENT. Any person who by mutual and legal agreement with a well owner has
authority to act in his or her behalf in executing applications for permits.
The AGENT may be either general agent or a limited agent to do one particular
act.
   AQUIFER. A geological formation, group of formations, or part of a formation
that will yield usable quantities of water to wells.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The County Board of Health or its official representatives.
   CASING. Pipe or tubing constructed of specified materials and having
specified dimensions and weights, that is installed in a borehole, during or
after completion of the borehole, to support the side of the hole and thereby
prevent caving, to allow completion of a well, to prevent formation material
from entering the well, to prevent the loss of drilling fluids into permeable
formations, and to prevent entry of undesirable water.
   CONSOLIDATED ROCK. Rock that is firm and coherent, solidified, or cemented
and that has not been decomposed by weathering. Examples are granite, gneiss,
limestone, slate, or sandstone.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   DOMESTIC USE. Use of water for drinking, bathing, household purposes,
livestock, or gardens.
   GROUT. Include the following.
      (1)   CONCRETE GROUT. A mixture of not more than two parts gravel to one
part cement and not more than six gallons of clear water per 95 pound bag of
portland cement. One hundred percent of the gravel must pass through a one-half
inch mesh screen.
      (2)   NEAT CEMENT GROUT. A mixture of not more than six gallons of clear
water to one 95 pound bag of portland cement. Up to 5%, by weight, of bentonite
clay may be used to improve flow and reduce shrinkage.
      (3)   SAND CEMENT GROUT. A mixture of not more than two parts sand and
one part cement and not more than six gallons of clear water per 95 pound bag
of portland cement.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department, Environmental Health
Section.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT REPRESENTATIVE. An authorized agent of the County Health
Department, Environmental Health Section.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the County Health Department.
   INSTALLING PUMPS AND PUMPING EQUIPMENT. Placing and preparing pumps and
pumping equipment for operation, including all construction involved in making
entrances to the well and establishing wells.
   LINER PIPE. Pipe that is installed inside a completed and cased well for the
purpose of sealing off undesirable water or for repairing ruptured or punctured
casing or screens.
   NON-POTABLE MINERALIZED WATER. Brackish, saline, or other water containing
minerals of such quantity or type as to render the water unsafe, harmful, or
generally unsuitable for domestic use.
   OWNER. Any person who holds the fee or other ownership rights in the well
being constructed. A well is real property and its construction on land creates
a presumption that the OWNER of the land also owns the well.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Health Department permitting the
construction or repair of any well, as defined in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, including individuals, firms, partnerships,
associations, public or private institutions, municipalities, or political
subdivisions, governmental agencies, or private or public, corporations
organized or existing under the laws of this state or of any other state or
country.
   POLLUTED WATER. Water containing organic or other contaminants of such type
and quantity as to render it unsafe, harmful, or unsuitable for human
consumption.
   PRIVATE WELL WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to one
residence or business that is owner occupied, except where either might furnish
water to persons on a regular basis who are not members of the household or
immediate family.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of piped water
for human consumption if such system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days
out of the year. PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either a community water system or a
non-community water system.
      (1)   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which serves at least
15 service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at
least 25 year-round residents.
      (2)   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which is not a
community water system.
   PUMPS AND PUMPING EQUIPMENT. The well seal and any other equipment or
materials used or intended to be used for withdrawing or obtaining ground
water.
   REPAIR. Work involved in deepening or changing depths, reaming, sealing,
installing, perforating, screening or cleaning, acidizing, or redeveloping a
well excavation or any other work which results in breaking or opening the well
seal.
   UNCONSOLIDATED ROCK FORMATION. Those rock formations that are not solid
(i.e., sand, clay, shell, saprolite, or decaying rock).
   WATER SUPPLY. Any source of ground water.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Pump and pipe used in connection with or pertaining to
the operation of a water supply, including pumps, pipes, pressure tanks, and
fittings.
   WELL. Any excavation that: is cored, bored, drilled, jetted, dug, or
otherwise constructed for the purpose of locating, testing, or withdrawing
ground water; constructed for evaluating, testing, developing, draining, or
recharging any ground water reservoirs or aquifers; or that may control,
divert, or otherwise cause the movement of water from or into any aquifer.
   WELL CAPACITY. The maximum quantity of water that a well will yield
continuously.
   WELL CONSTRUCTION. Includes all acts necessary to construct wells for any
intended use, including the location and excavation of the well, placement of
casings, grouting, screens, and fittings, development, and testing.
   WELL DRILLER, DRILLER, OR WATER-WELL CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm, or
corporation engaged in the business of constructing wells.
   WELL HEAD. The upper terminal of the well including adapters, ports, valves,
seals, and other attachments.
   WELL SEAL. An approved arrangement or device used to cap a well or to
establish and maintain a junction between the casing or curbing of a well and
the piping or equipment installed therein, the purpose or function of which is
to prevent pollutants from entering the well at the upper terminal.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.08  DRILLER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of using
power machinery to drill, bore, core, or construct wells in the county shall
register annually with the Health Department.
   (B)   Registration shall be accomplished during the period from January 1 to
December 31 of each year.
   (C)   Registration shall be accomplished by completing and submitting to the
Health Department a registration application form provided by the Health
Department for this purpose.
   (D)   Upon submitting a properly completed application form, the applicant
will be issued a certificate of registration.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.09  PERMITS.
   (A)   It is the finding of the Health Department that the entire
geographical area of the county is vulnerable to ground water pollution from
improperly located, constructed, operated, altered, or abandoned water and non-
water supply wells. Therefore, in order to ensure reasonable protection of the
ground water resources and the public health, prior permission from the Health
Department must be obtained for the construction or repair of the types of
wells listed in division (B) below. Unless otherwise specified in writing by
the Health Department, permits shall become invalid after 12 months from the
date of issue if the construction has not been completed during that time
period. When a permit has become invalid, the installation shall not be
commenced or completed until a new permit has been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, construct, or repair
any of the following wells in the county without a permit issued by the Health
Department:
      (1)   Any water well or well system;
      (2)   Any well added to an existing system;
      (3)   Any test well;
      (4)   Any monitoring well;
      (5)   Any recovery well;
      (6)   Any well intended for the recovery of minerals or ores;
      (7)   Any geophysical exploration well;
      (8)   Any oil or gas exploration or recovery well;
      (9)   Any well for recharge or injection purposes;
      (10)   Any cathodic projection well;
      (11)   Any well associated with a wastewater treatment and disposal
facility; and
      (12)   Any well with a design deviation from the standards set forth
therein.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the well owner or his or her agent
to see that a permit is secured prior to the construction or repair of any well
for which a permit is required.
   (D)   The location of any private well water supply in the county shall be
approved by the Health Department before any construction activity on the lot
is begun. Wells drilled for public water supply systems regulated by the
Department of Human Resources shall meet the siting and all other requirements
of that Department.
   (E)   The well contractor shall not commence any drilling activity until the
permit has been obtained.
   (F)   The Health Department is authorized to revoke any permits issued
pursuant to these regulations upon the determination that these regulations not
being fully complied with.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)  Penalty, see §
52.99
STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION FOR WATER SUPPLY WELLS
§ 52.20  LOCATION.
   The well shall be located:
   (A)   For private well water supplies, at a site not generally subject to
flooding; the site for public well water supplied shall not be subject to
flooding;
   (B)   (1)   For private well water supplies, a minimum horizontal distance
of 50 feet from any watertight sewage and liquid waste collection facility,
such as cast iron pipes with leaded joints, except where it is not feasible to
obtain 50 feet separation because of lot size or other fixed conditions, the
horizontal distance shall be the maximum feasible distance, but in no case less
than 25 feet.
      (2)   For public well water supplies, the well shall be located at least
100 feet from any sewer or other potential sources of pollution unless the
sewer is constructed of materials and joints that are equivalent to water main
standards, in which case the sewer shall be at least 50 feet from the well.
   (C)   (1)   For private well water supplies, a minimum horizontal distance
of 100 feet from any ground absorption sewage disposal system, such as a septic
tank system, and any other source of potential pollution or contamination,
except where it is not feasible to obtain 100 feet separation because of lot
size or other fixed conditions, the separation distance shall be the maximum
feasible distance, but in no case less than 50 feet.
      (2)   For public well water supplies, the well shall be located on a lot
so that the area within 100 feet of the well shall be owned or controlled by
the person supplying the water. Variances in the well lot area may be permitted
by a representative of the Division of Health Services where emergency
conditions exist, as determined by the representative of the Division of Health
Services;
   (D)   A minimum horizontal distance of ten feet from any property boundary;
   (E)   At a site that permits access for maintenance, repair, treatment
testing, and such other attention as may be necessary;
   (F)   At a site that is well drained, the site for public well water
supplies shall be graded or sloped so that surface water is diverted away from
the well; and
   (G)   At a minimum horizontal distance of 50 feet from a building foundation
subject to termite treatment.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.21  SOURCE OF WATER.
   (A)   The source of water for any well intended for domestic use shall be
from a water-bearing zone or aquifer that is not polluted and that does not
contain nonpotable mineralized water.
   (B)   In areas described in §
52.61, the source shall be at least 35 feet below land surfaces.
   (C)   In all other areas, the source shall be at least 20 feet below land
surface.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.22  DRILLING AND CASING.
   (A)   The well shall be constructed so that a pump with a capacity equal to
the well capacity, within the practical limits of pumps for a given diameter
well, can be installed and operated without binding or without interference by
contact with any part of the well.
   (B)   All water-bearing zones that contain polluted or nonpotable
mineralized water shall be adequately cased and cemented off so that pollution
of underlying or overlying water-bearing zones will not occur.
   (C)   Drilling fluids shall be obtained from an uncontaminated source, or
shall be disinfected prior to use.
   (D)   Every well shall be cased with the bottom of the casing extending to a
minimum depth as follows.
      (1)   Wells located within the area described in §
52.61 shall be cased from land surface to a depth of at least 35 feet.
      (2)   Wells located in any other area shall be cased from land surface to
a depth of at least 20 feet.
   (E)   The top of the casing shall be terminated by the drilling contractor
at least 12 inches above land surface.
   (F)   The well shall be adequately cased to prevent formation material from
entering the well after the well has been developed and completed by the
drilling contractor.
   (G)   The casing in wells constructed to obtain water from a consolidated
rock formation shall be firmly seated and sealed to a depth of at least one
foot below the top of the consolidated rock.
   (H)   The casing in wells constructed to obtain water from an unconsolidated
rock formation, such as gravel, sand, or shells, shall extend at least to the
top of the water-bearing formation.
   (I)   Except as otherwise specified in these regulations, the permanent well
casing shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Casing weighing less than standard weight steel pipe is not
recommended by the Department for water supply wells, however, steel casing of
six and five-eighths inches outside diameter weighing less than standard weight
steel pipe will be permitted if the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The owner prefers casing weighing less than standard weight
steel pipe;
         (b)   The casing shall have a minimum weight of 13 pounds per foot
when threaded and coupled;
         (c)   The casing shall have a minimum nominal wall thickness for a
given diameter equal to that specified in §
52.64; and
         (d)   The casing shall meet the requirements for water well casing
pipe of ASTM-A589-70 specifications.
      (2)   Have watertight joints that shall be electrically welded, or
threaded and coupled with heavy recessed-type couplings, the coupling should
cover the threads when made power tight;
      (3)   Be equipped with a drive shoe when the casing is seated in a
consolidated rock formation and any other wells if the casing is driven. The
drive shoe shall be forged, high carbon, tempered, seamless steel, and have a
beveled hardened cutting edge. A drive shoe will not be required for wells in
which:
         (a)   The cement grout surrounds and extends the entire length of the
casing; and
         (b)   The casing is installed without interference from formational
material.
      (4)   If galvanized, must be galvanized in compliance with the
requirements of the latest revision of ASTM Specification A120.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.23  GROUTING.
   (A)   The casing in wells located within areas described in §
52.61 shall be grouted from land surface to a depth of at least 35 feet.
   (B)   The casing in wells in which the producing zone underlies zones
containing non-potable water shall be grouted from land surface to the top of
the producing zone or first impervious layer having a thickness of at least ten
feet above the producing zone.
   (C)   The casing in all other wells shall be grouted from land surface to a
minimum depth of 20 feet.
   (D)   The cement grout shall be placed around the casing by one of the
following methods.
      (1)   Pressure. The annular space between the casing and formation shall
be a minimum of one and one-half inches. Cement grout shall be pumped or forced
under pressure through the bottom of the casing until it fills the annular area
around the casing and overflows at the surface.
      (2)   Pumping. The annular space between the casing and formation shall
be a minimum of one and one-half inches. Cement grout shall be pumped into
place through a hose or pipe extended to the bottom of the annular space which
can be raised as the grout is applied. The grout hose or pipe should remain
submerged in grout during the entire application.
      (3)   Annular space. The annular space around the casing shall be a
minimum of three inches, the annular space shall be completely filled with
cement grout by any method that will ensure complete filling of the space,
provided the annular area does not contain water. If the annular area contains
water, the water shall be removed or the grout shall be placed by either the
pumping or pressure methods.
   (E)   If an outer casing is installed, it shall be grouted by either the
pumping or pressure methods.
   (F)   All grout mixtures shall be prepared before emplacement.
   (G)   The well shall be grouted within five working days after completion of
drilling.
   (H)   The contractor will give oral notice to the Health Department of any
grouting to be done. The notice shall be given in sufficient time to allow the
Health Department to inspect the well before the grout is emplaced.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.24  LARGE DIAMETER WELLS.
   (A)   A large diameter well cased with concrete pipe, and commonly referred
to as a “bored” well, may be constructed for domestic use. However, this type
of well is not recommended by the Health Department where a standard well,
cased with standard weight steel pipe, is possible.
   (B)   If the casing joints are not sealed, the construction shall be as
follows.
      (1)   The bore shall have a minimum diameter of six inches larger than
the outside diameter of the casing.
      (2)   The annular space around the casing shall be filled with neat
cement, sand-cement, or concrete grout to a depth of at least 20 feet below
land surface.
      (3)   The annular space around the casing below the grout shall be filled
with sand or gravel.
      (4)   The gravel-pack shall have a minimum thickness of at least three
inches.
      (5)   The gravel-pack material shall be composed of quartz, granite, or
similar rock material and shall be clean, rounded, uniform, water-washed, and
free from clay, silt, or other deleterious material.
      (6)   The gravel shall be sterilized before or during the installation
with a solution containing at least 100 parts per million residual chlorine, or
mg/l.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.25  WELL SCREENS.
   (A)   The well, if constructed to obtain water from an unconsolidated rock
formation, shall be equipped with a screen that will adequately prevent the
entrance of formation material into the well after the well has been developed
and completed by the well contractor.
   (B)   The well screen shall:
      (1)   Be of a standard design and manufactured specifically for the
purpose of well construction;
      (2)   Be of steel, brass, bronze, or plastic and shall be of a strength
to withstand satisfactorily chemical and physical forces applied to it during
and after installation. Plastic well screens shall:
         (a)   Have an accurate uniform gauge;
         (b)   Have a minimum wall thickness and tolerance which meets or
exceeds requirements for schedule 40 thermoplastic water well casing pipe for
nominal sizes three inches and smaller;
         (c)   Have a minimum wall thickness and tolerance which meets or
exceeds requirements for SDR 17 thermoplastic water well casing for nominal
sizes greater than three inches;
         (d)   Be constructed with keystone shaped NSF approved plastic wire or
rings surrounding pipe or calibrated slots cut in pipe base;
         (e)   Be installed in wells without interference from formation
material or other objects that may cause physical damage during emplacement;
and
         (f)   Be approved by federal, state, and municipal agencies having
requirements applicable to well construction.
      (3)   Be designed to permit the optimum development of the aquifer with
minimum head loss consistent with the intended use of the well. The openings
shall be designed to prevent clogging and shall be free of rough edges,
irregularities, or other defects that may accelerate or contribute to corrosion
or clogging; and
      (4)   Be provided with such fittings as are necessary to seal the top of
the screen to the casing and to close the bottom. If the screen is installed
inside the casing, a lead-packer seal or other approved device shall be used to
seal the screen, or screen extension to the casing.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.26  WELL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Every well shall be properly developed by the drilling contractor.
   (B)   Development shall include removal of:
      (1)   Formation cuttings and mud from the entire depth of the well;
      (2)   Drilling fluids and additives; and
      (3)   Any formation material from the water bearing zones or other source
that may enter the well as a result of pumping at a rate within the limits of
the reported yield.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.27  WELL IDENTIFICATION PLATE.
   (A)   An identification plate showing the drilling contractor and his or her
registration number shall be installed on the well within 24 hours after the
drilling is complete.
   (B)   The identification plate shall be constructed of a durable, weather-
proof, rust-proof metal, or equivalent material.
   (C)   The identification plate shall be securely attached to the well casing
or enclosure floor around the casing where it is readily visible.
   (D)   The identification plate shall not be removed from the well by any
person.
   (E)   The identification tag shall be stamped with a permanent marking
within 30 days after drilling is completed to show the:
      (1)   Total depth of well;
      (2)   Casing depth (feet) and inside diameter (inches);
      (3)   Screened intervals of screened wells;
      (4)   Gravel interval of gravel-packed wells;
      (5)   Yield or specific capacity expressed in gallons per minute (gpm),
or gallons per minute per foot of draw-down (gpm/ft.-DD); and
      (6)   Static water level and date measured.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.28  WELL HEAD COMPLETION AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The top of the casing shall be cut off smooth and level, be free from
dents and cracks, and shall terminate at least six inches above the concrete
slab around the casing.
   (B)   The identification plate, if removed or obscured during pump
installation, shall be relocated and securely attached to the well casing or
enclosure floor around the casing by the person installing the pump and pumping
equipment.
   (C)   All piping, wiring, and vents shall enter the well at least eight
inches above land surface.
   (D)   (1)   The well head shall be completely enclosed except on wells with
turbine or other type pumps and pumping equipment designed for all weather
conditions.
      (2)   The enclosure shall be well drained and constructed to prevent the
entrance of surface and rain water, insects and rodents, and to protect the
well head equipment against freezing.
      (3)   The enclosure shall have a concrete floor with a thickness of at
least four inches and extending a minimum of two feet outward from the outer
well casing.
      (4)   Every public well water supply shall have a continuous bond
concrete slab or well house concrete floor extending at least three feet
horizontally around the outside of the well casing. The top of the floor shall
be at least two inches above land surface and shall slope away from the well
casing in all directions, the surface of the ground shall be graded to slope
away from the well head enclosure in all directions.
      (5)   A conduit of sufficient size shall be cast into the floor to
provide for installing the pump piping and wiring through the floor. The space
between the piping and wiring and the conduit walls shall be sealed.
   (E)   Every well shall be equipped by the person completing the well head
with a usable access port.
      (1)   The access port shall be located directly on top of the well if the
pump is offset from the well.
      (2)   For wells on which the pump is installed directly over the well, an
access port pipe shall be installed through the pump base or outside of the
well casing, and terminate inside the well casing at some point below the base
of the pump.
      (3)   The access port shall have a minimum inside diameter of one-half or
five tenths of an inch, so that the position of the water level may be
determined by measuring with a steel or electric tape through the access port.
      (4)   The access port shall be installed and maintained in such a manner
as to prevent the entrance of water, dust, insects, or other foreign material,
and to permit ready access for water level measurements.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.29  SUCTION PUMPING.
   Any suction line installed underground between the well and pump shall be
surrounded by six inches of cement, or encased in a larger pipe that is sealed
at each end.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION FOR OTHER THAN WATER SUPPLY
§ 52.40  LOCATION.
   No well shall be located, constructed, operated, or repaired in any manner
that may adversely impact the quality of ground water. Any test holes and
borings shall be permanently abandoned by the driller in accordance with §
52.58 of these rules within two days after drilling or two days after testing
is complete, whichever is least restrictive; except in the case that a test
well is being converted to a production well, in which case conversion shall be
completed within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.41  INJECTION WELLS.
   (A)   No well shall be constructed or used for recharge, injection, or
disposal purposes without prior permission from the Health Department.
   (B)   The discharge of any waste to the subsurface or ground waters of the
county through wells is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42  MONITORING WELLS AND RECOVERY WELLS.
   All wells shall be located, designed, constructed, operated, and abandoned
with materials and by methods which are compatible with the chemical and
physical properties of the contaminants involved, specific site conditions and
specific subsurface conditions. Specific construction standards will be
itemized upon issuance of the permit, but the following general requirements
will apply.
   (A)   The borehole shall not penetrate to a depth greater than the depth to
be monitored or the depth which contaminants are to be recovered.
   (B)   The well shall not hydraulically connect separate aquifers.
   (C)   Construction materials shall be compatible with the contaminants to be
monitored or recovered.
   (D)   The well shall be constructed in such a manner that water from the
land surface cannot migrate into gravel pack or well screen area.
   (E)   When a gravel pack is placed around the screen, a seal shall be
installed above the gravel.
   (F)   Grout shall be placed in the annular space between the casing and the
borehole wall from land surface to a depth within two feet above the top of the
well screen or to the bottom of the casing for open end walls.
   (G)   All wells shall be secured to reasonably ensure against unauthorized
access and use.
   (H)   All wells shall be afforded reasonable protection against damage
during construction and use.
   (I)   Each well shall have permanently affixed an identification plate
constructed of a durable material and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Drilling contractor name and registration number;
      (2)   The date the well completed;
      (3)   Total depth of well; and
      (4)   A warning that the well is not for water supply and that the ground
water may contain hazardous materials.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.43  OBSERVATION WELLS.
   Observation wells constructed for the purpose of obtaining hydrologic or
other data shall meet the standards of construction for water supply wells.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.55  WELL TESTS FOR YIELD.
   (A)   Every water supply well shall be tested for capacity by a method and
for a period of time acceptable to the Department. The permittee may be
required as a permit condition to test any well for capacity by a method
stipulated in the permit.
   (B)   Standard methods for testing well capacity include the following.
      (1)   Domestic wells.
         (a)   Pump method.
            1.   Select a permanent measuring point, such as the top of the
casing;
            2.   Measure and record the static water level below or above the
measuring point prior to starting the pump;
            3.   Measure and record the discharge rate at intervals of ten
minutes or less;
            4.   Measure and record water levels using a steel or electric tape
at intervals of ten minutes or less;
            5.   Continue the test for a period of at least one hour; and
            6.   Make measurements within an accuracy of plus or minus one-
quarter of a foot.
         (b)   Bailer method.
            1.   Select a permanent measuring point, such as the top of the
casing;
            2.   Measure and record the static water level below or above the
measuring point prior to starting the bailing procedure;
            3.   Bail the water out of the well as rapidly as possible for a
period of at least one hour; determine and record the bailing rate in gallons
per minute at the end of the bailing period; and
            4.   Measure and record the water level immediately after stopping
bailing process.
         (c)   Air rotary drill method.
            1.   Measure and record the amount of water being injected into the
well during drilling operations;
            2.   Measure and record the discharge rate in gallons per minute at
intervals of one hour or less during drilling operations;
            3.   After completion of the drilling, continue to blow the water
out of the well for at least 30 minutes and measure and record the discharge
rate in gallons per minute at intervals of ten minutes or less during the
period; and
            4.   Measure and record the water level immediately after discharge
ceases.
         (d)   Air lift method.
            1.   Measurements shall be made through a pipe placed in the well;
            2.   The pipe shall have a minimum inside diameter of at least
five-tenths of an inch and shall extend from the top of the well head to a
point inside the well that is below the bottom of the air line;
            3.   Measure and record the static water level prior to starting
the air compressor;
            4.   Measure and record the discharge rate at intervals of ten
minutes or less;
            5.   Measure and record the pumping level using a steel or electric
tape at intervals of ten minutes or less; and
            6.   Continue the test for a period of at least one hour.
      (2)   Public/industrial and irrigation wells. Every public industrial and
irrigation well, upon completion, shall be tested for capacity by the drilling
contractor, except when the owner specifies another agent.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.56  WELL CHLORINATION.
   (A)   All wells shall be disinfected upon completion of construction,
maintenance, repairs, and pump installation as follows.
      (1)   Chlorine shall be placed in the well in sufficient quantities to
produce a chlorine residual of at least 100 mg/l in the well. A chlorine
solution may be prepared by dissolving high test calcium hypochlorite (trade
names include TH, chlortabs, and the like) in water, about 0.12 lbs, or two
ounces or hypochlorite containing 70% available chlorine is needed per 100
gallons of water for a 100 mg/l chlorine residual. As an example, a well having
a diameter of six inches has a volume of about one and five-tenths gallons per
foot. If the well has 200 feet of water, the minimum amount of hypochlorite
required would be 0.36 pounds (1.5 x 200 feet = 300 gallons, 0.12 pounds per
100 gallons, 0.12 x 3 = 0.36 pounds).
      (2)   The chlorine shall be placed in the well by one of the following or
equivalent methods.
         (a)   Chlorine tablets may be dropped in the top of the well and
allowed to settle to the bottom.
         (b)   Chlorine solutions shall be placed in the bottom of the well by
using a bailer or by pouring the solution through the drill rod, hose, or pipe
placed in the bottom of the well, the solution shall be flushed out of the
drill rod, hose, or pipe by using water or air.
      (3)   Agitate the water in the well to ensure thorough dispersion of the
chlorine.
      (4)   The well casing, pump column, and any other equipment above the
water level in the well shall be thoroughly rinsed with the chlorine solution
as a part of the disinfecting process.
   (B)   The chlorine shall stand in the well for a period of at least 24
hours.
   (C)   The well shall be pumped until the system is clear of the chlorine
before the system is placed in use.
   (D)   A sample of the water shall be collected and analyzed for bacteria not
less than 24 hours after chlorine has been removed from the well. For private
water supply wells, the results of this analysis shall be furnished to the
Health Department at or before the time the Health Department representative
inspects the well.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.57  WELL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Every well shall be maintained in a condition whereby it will not be a
source or channel of contamination or pollution to the water supply, or any
aquifer.
   (B)   All materials used in the maintenance, replacement, or repair of any
well shall meet the requirements for new installation.
   (C)   Broken, punctured, or otherwise defective or unserviceable casing,
screens, fixtures, seals, or any part of the well head shall be repaired or
replaced, as soon as possible, or the well shall be permanently abandoned.
   (D)   Repairs to wells completed with the well head terminating below ground
(buried seal) shall include extending the well casing above land surface. The
Health Department shall not approve any well having an entry below land
surface. The extension shall be made as follows:
      (1)   A tapered sleeve shall be inserted inside of the casing and shall
extend at least six inches down into the existing casing. The extension casing
shall be welded or bonded to the existing casing around the outside of the
joint; or
      (2)   A sleeve shall be heated and swedged over the existing casing with
at least six inches of overlap.
   (E)   Cement grout shall be placed around the casing, extending from land
surface to a depth of at least one foot below the joint formed by the casings.
The grout shall have a minimum thickness of one and five-tenths inches.
   (F)   National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) approved PVC pipe rated at 160
PSI may be used for liner casing. The liner casing shall be installed with
centering guides to ensure proper centering in the well. The annular space
around the liner casing shall be at least five-eighths inches and shall be
completely filled with neat-cement grout.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.58  ABANDONING WELLS.
   (A)   Every well whose use or construction has been discontinued, either
temporarily or permanently, shall be abandoned in accordance with these
regulations.
   (B)   When any well is temporarily removed from service or before any well
is put into service, it shall be sealed with a watertight cap or seal.
   (C)   The well shall be maintained whereby it is not a source or channel of
contamination during temporary abandonment.
   (D)   Every temporarily abandoned well shall be protected with a casing.
   (E)   Any well that is a source or channel of contamination shall be
repaired or permanently abandoned within 30 days of receipt of an order from
the Health Department.
   (F)   The drilling contractor shall permanently abandon any well in which
the casing has not been installed or from which the casing has been removed,
before removing his or her equipment from the site.
   (G)   Any well not in compliance with the conditions for temporary
abandonment shall be brought into compliance or permanently abandoned within 30
days or receipt of notice from the Health Department.
   (H)   The well owner shall be responsible for permanent abandonment of a
well except:
      (1)   As otherwise specified in these regulations; or
      (2)   If well abandoned is required because the driller improperly
locates, constructs, or completes the well, in which case the driller is
responsible for abandoning the well.
   (I)   Permanent abandonment procedures include the following.
      (1)   All casing and screen materials may be removed prior to initiation
of abandonment procedures if such removal will not cause or contribute to
contamination of ground waters.
      (2)   In the case of gravel-packed wells in which the casing and screens
have not been removed, the casing shall be perforated opposite the gravel pack
at intervals not exceeding ten feet and grout injected through the perforations
under pressures, or neat cement shall be injected into the gravel by washing a
line to the bottom of the gravel and pumping the cement in from the bottom up
into the gravel until a return is obtained at the top through the gravel.
      (3)   The well shall be checked from land surface to the entire depth of
the well before it is sealed to ensure freedom from obstructions that may
interfere with sealing operations.
      (4)   The well shall be thoroughly chlorinated before sealing.
      (5)   “Bored” wells shall be completely filled with cement grout, dry
clay, or material excavated during drilling of the well and shall be compacted
in place.
      (6)   Wells constructed in unconsolidated formation other than”bored”
wells shall be completely filled with cement grout by introducing it through a
pipe extending to the bottom of the well which can be raised as the well is
filled.
      (7)   Wells constructed in consolidated rock formations or that penetrate
zones of consolidated rock may be filled with cement, sand, gravel, or drill
cuttings opposite the zones of consolidated rock, the top of the sand, gravel,
or cuttings fill shall be at least five feet below the top of the consolidated
rock, the remainder of the well shall be filled with cement grout only.
      (8)   Test wells less than 20 feet in depth that do not penetrate the
water table shall be abandoned in such a manner as to prevent the well from
being a channel allowing the vertical movement of water or a source of
contamination to the ground-water supply. Test wells or borings that penetrate
the water table shall be abandoned by completely filling with cement grout.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.59  RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person completing or abandoning any well in the county shall
submit to the Health Department and to the well owner a record of the
construction or abandonment to include: the owner’s name; the wells location,
size, and depth; the casing record; the method of finishing or abandoning;
formation log; static water level; pumping water level; yield; pump type;
capacity and setting; and date of completion or abandonment.
   (B)   Any person repairing a well shall submit to the Health Department and
the well owner a record of the repair to include: the owner’s name; location of
the well; change in construction and materials replaced; and date of repair.
   (C)   The reports required in divisions (A) and (B) above shall be submitted
to the Health Department within 30 days after completing construction,
abandonment, or repair.
   (D)   Reports shall be certified by the contractor or persons completing the
construction, abandonment, or repair.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.60  DIAGRAMS AND FORMS.
   (A)   Diagrams. Diagrams illustrating several parts of the regulations are
available upon request from the Health Department. Persons wanting copies of
these diagrams should refer to them by their figure numbers when making
requests as follows:
      (1)   Figure No. 1 illustrates the proper seating and sealing of casing
of wells constructed to obtain water from consolidated rock formations;
      (2)   Figure No. 2 illustrates the proper seating of screens required to
prevent the entrance of formation material into a well constructed to obtain
water from unconsolidated rock formations;
      (3)   Figure No. 3 illustrates the proper construction of gravel-packed
wells;
      (4)   Figure No. 4 illustrates the construction of bored wells for
domestic use;
      (5)   Figure No. 5 illustrates proper placement of required well
identification plate, and the access port;
      (6)   Figure No. 6 illustrates proper placement of access ports;
      (7)   Figure No. 7 illustrates construction of an access port; and
      (8)   Figure No. 8 illustrates well chlorination required by §
52.56.
   (B)   Forms. The following forms required by these regulations are available
upon request from the Health Department:
      (1)   Driller registration application;
      (2)   Certificate of registration;
      (3)   Completion or abandonment report; and
      (4)   Repair report.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.61  MINIMUM CASING DEPTH FOR DESIGNATED AREAS.
   Wells drilled in areas underlain by metavolcanic rocks identified on the
1958 State Geologic Map as bedded argillites of the Carolina Slate Belt shall
be cased to a minimum depth of 35 feet. These areas are generally described as
follows: a dominant landscape of gently sloping ridges and strongly sloping
side slopes with well drained soils occurring on the uplands. The soils are
characterized by deep soils with firm silty clay subsoils and soils with
shallow rock and saprolite. The major soil series are Georgeville, Herndon,
Tatum, Nason, Lignum, and Goldston.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.62  SEMI-PUBLIC WELL WATER SUPPLIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to rent or offer for rent,
lease, or offer for lease, any residence or place of business without a potable
water supply. The owner shall provide proof that the water quality meets
bacteriological standards recommended by the Division of Health Services. The
supply shall also have at least one sample recorded with the Health Department
as to the nitrate level.
   (B)   All wells under this section shall be protected according to the
recommended standards of the Division of Health Services.
   (C)   All supplies that serve two connections, residences or businesses, or
more but less than 15 will be sampled by the Health Department for
bacteriological analysis semi-annually.
   (D)   Where only one connection, residence or business, is involved, the
Health Department shall be notified by the owner or agent upon occupancy of
each new tenant. The Health Department will collect a sample for
bacteriological analysis at that time.
   (E)   All water supplies covered under this section that fail to meet the
bacteriological standards shall be treated by an approved chlorination method.
If periodic contamination occurs, those water supply systems shall be equipped
with mechanical devices to ensure adequate disinfection.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.63  VARIANCE.
   Because of the extremely wide range of conditions of ground water
occurrences and chemical quality, variances to these standards may be granted
for the construction, repair, or abandonment of water supply wells. A request
for a variance shall be submitted in writing to the Health Department.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.64  MINIMUM WALL THICKNESS FOR STEEL CASING.
 
Nominal Diameter (in.)    Wall Thickness (in.)
For 3-1/2 or smaller pipe Schedule 40 is required
5-1/2                     0.164
14 and larger             0.375
 
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.65  PROTECTING DRILLED WELLS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1190.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1192.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1194.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1196.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1198.png]
 
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.66  DISINFECTION OF WELLS.
   (A)   (1)   A satisfactory disinfecting solution may be prepared by using
household bleach such as Clorox, Purex, and the like. One gallon of household
bleach is usually adequate for the average well. Mix the bleach with three to
four gallons of water and pour into the well.
      (2)   Chlorine powder such a B.K. powder or HTH may also be used. For
safety reasons, these products must be used with caution.
   (B)   Connect a garden hose to an outside faucet and run water into the well
until a chlorine odor can be detected. This circulation aids in the well and
distribution system.
   (C)   Open cold water faucets in the house until a chlorine odor can de
detected, close faucets.
   (D)   Allow the chlorine to remain in the well for 12 or more hours.
   (E)   (1)   Connect a garden hose to an outside faucet and pump off water
until no chlorine odor or taste can be detected.
      (2)   Keep the discharge out of the septic tank or septic tank drain line
area.
   (F)   Have a sample collected by the local Health Department for
bacteriological analysis after chlorine has been removed from well and
household system.
   (G)   Precaution must be taken when pumping off water to prevent pumping
well dry and possibly burning up pump.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who willfully violates any provision of these regulations, or any
order issued pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine not to exceed $50 or imprisonment, not to exceed 30 days, and may have any
permit or certificate of registration issued pursuant to these rules suspended
or revoked. As provided by G.S. Ch. 87, Art. 7, the Health Director may also
institute an action in the county’s Superior Court for injunctive relief.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Purpose and authority
   
90.003   Regulations additional to existing laws
   
90.004   Jurisdiction
   
90.005   Relation to hunting laws
   
90.006   Applicability to animal shelter
   
90.007   Animal Control Department
   
90.008   Enforcement
   
90.009   Tax and licensing dogs
Rabies Control
   
90.020   Compliance with state law
   
90.021   Vaccination requirements
   
90.022   Requirements for animals that enter the state
   
90.023   Animal bites; quarantine
   
90.024   Destruction or confinement of animals exposed to rabies
Animal Cruelty
   
90.035   Supplement to state law
   
90.036   Prohibited acts
   
90.037   Manner of keeping and treating animals
Animal Nuisance
   
90.050   Creating a nuisance
   
90.051   Control of security dogs
   
90.052   Impoundment
   
90.053   Adopting exceptions
Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
90.065   Purpose
   
90.066   Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
   
90.067   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
   
90.068   Right to appeal
   
90.069   Protection from dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
   
90.070   Transfer of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
   
90.071   Unlawful removal or destruction of dog collars
   
90.072   Exotic animals prohibited
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, unjustifiably, or
negligently leave an animal at a location without providing for the animal’s
care.
   ABUSE AND NEGLECT. Includes the following:
      (1)   Failing to provide an animal with adequate food and adequate water;
      (2)   Molesting, harassing, injuring, setting on fire, or sexually
assaulting any animal in a manner causing physical pain, suffering, or death to
the animal;
      (3)   Failing to provide adequate medical attention for any sick,
diseased, or injured animal in order to prevent physical pain, suffering,
disability, or death to the animal;
      (4)   Keeping any animal under condition which causes or could cause
physical pain, suffering, disability, or death to the animal or which increases
the probability of the transmission of disease;
      (5)   Failing to provide adequate shelter, as defined herein, for an
animal; and/or
      (6)   Conveying or confining any type of animal in a motor vehicle,
wagon, or trailer, or in the bed of a truck in such a way as to cause physical
pain, suffering, disability, or death to the animal.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours,
of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal, which is
served in a sanitized receptacle, dish, or container.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. An enclosure having at least three solid sides, a roof,
and a solid floor raised above the ground with sufficient room for the animal
to move about freely and lie down comfortably, structurally sound, water and
wind resistant, maintained in good repair and constructed in a manner to
provide shade from the direct rays of the sun, adequate ventilation, and light.
Barrel style enclosures are considered adequate provided they are kept in good,
safe repair, waterproof, and are stable for the animal.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, potable water
provided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals for the species
and not to exceed 24 hours at any interval.
   ADOPTABLE ANIMAL. An animal that, in the opinion of the Animal Control
Director, is physically well, spayed or neutered, exhibits behaviors or
socialization and compatibility with living in the human environment, does not
pose an undue risk of injury to people or other animals, and which would be
considered desirable for companionship.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, specifically including, but not
limited to, dogs, cats, farm animals, birds, fish, livestock, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DIRECTOR. The department head of the county’s Animal Control
Department, or Chief Animal Control Officer.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A county employee and staff member of the county’s
Animal Control Department authorized to enforce this chapter and all state laws
regarding rabies and animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and providing care of animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impoundment in accordance with this chapter or state laws.
   APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTATION. A rabies certificate or official veterinary
record validating that the animal has, at least once previously, received a
USDA-licensed rabies vaccination. If it was a single vaccination, the animal
was vaccinated at least 28 days prior to the exposure date.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Any animal found off of the real property of its owner or keeper
and not under restraint of a competent person or any animal previously
determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous that is not under restraint
or confined to a secure enclosure while on the property of its owner. This
definition shall exclude:
         (a)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the
law enforcement officer’s official duties;
         (b)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt; and
         (c)   A dog working as a herding dog or predator control dog on the
property of, or under the control of, its owner or keeper.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, the term REAL PROPERTY shall
include any property owned or occupied by the owner of such animal but shall
not include any of the common areas (including without limitation, walks,
drives, recreation and open space area, and the like) within any subdivision or
multi-family residential development.
   ATTACK. To approach in a terrorizing or threatening manner without teasing,
molesting, provoking, beating, torturing, or otherwise being harmed.
   BITE. The skin has been penetrated by an animal’s teeth or an animal seizing
flesh with its teeth or jaws. This also includes cat scratches.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day that the county conducts routine business and that the
animal control facility is open to the public.
   CAT. Any and all domestic felines.
   CONFINEMENT. Unless otherwise specified herein, means to secure within a
building or similar adequate shelter so that the animal cannot escape without
human assistance.
   CONTROL. The power to direct, manage, oversee, and/or restrict the physical
action of an animal.
   CRUELTY and CRUEL TREATMENT. Every act, omission, or act of neglect whereby
unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted, or attempted to
be caused or permitted against animals, as well as acts or attempted acts of
teasing, molesting, baiting, or trapping of animals unlawfully or any acts
prohibited by state law or this chapter.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
      (1)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person;
      (2)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (3)   Any dog that is determined by the Animal Control Director as a
potentially dangerous dog because the dog has engaged in previous behaviors
defined as a potentially dangerous dog.
   DOG. Any and all domestic canines.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Includes any dog, cat, or ferret that has been made tame by
socialization and that is fit for the human environment.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any non-indigenous, predatory carnivores, including, but not
limited to, lions, tigers, leopards, ocelots, jaguars, cheetah, wolves, or
hybrids thereof. Exclusions to the definition of EXOTIC ANIMAL are restricted
to traveling circuses or exhibits with a current authorization of and by
federal law, state law, or county code or permit.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any person or animal that has been bitten by or otherwise
come into contact with the saliva or nervous tissue of a proven rabid animal or
any animal reasonably known or suspected to have been infected with rabies that
is not available for laboratory diagnosis.
   FERAL. A domestic animal which is not socialized.
   FERRET. A domestic mammal of the genus, species, and subspecies Mustela
putorius furo.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The department head of the county’s Health Department.
   IMPOUNDMENT. Possession or seizure of an animal by the county’s Animal
Control Department.
   IN ESTRUS. A female animal in what is commonly termed “in heat” or “in
season”.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by such person.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any act of an animal or its owner that disturbs the rights and
privileges common to the public or enjoyment of private property, damages real
or personal property, or threatens the safety of a member of the general public
or the general health and welfare of the general public.
      (2)   Actions defined as a NUISANCE include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   An animal that is at large;
         (b)   An animal that causes damage or soils the real or personal
property of another;
         (c)   Failing to confine a female dog or cat while in estrus in a
building or secure enclosure in such a manner that she cannot come into contact
with another dog or cat or create a nuisance by attracting other animals.
However, this division (2)(c) shall not be construed to prohibit the
intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed, concealed area on the
premises of the owner of an animal which is being bred.
         (d)   An animal that chases, snaps at, or otherwise molests persons or
other animals;
         (e)   An animal allowed to loiter on public or private places; and
         (f)   An animal that is diseased or unsafe to the health of the public
unless under the care of a licensed veterinarian or a person as designated by
the Health Director.
      (3)   The barking of dogs, regardless of the manner or repetition of the
barking, is specifically excluded as a NUISANCE under the purview of this
section.
   OWNER. Any person, legal entity, firm, partnership, or corporation owning,
keeping, having charge of, or that has a possessory right in an animal.
   OWNER’S OBSERVATION. Under the owner’s strict supervision and control (leash
walk, fenced yard, no travel or boarding unless approved by the local
department of health, no outings at doggie park or other parks, and the like).
There should be no contact with animals or people other than the caretaker(s)
until the local health director has released the animal from the 45-day
observation period.
   OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of an
animal but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex, or townhouse development.
   PERSON. Any individual, family, group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, organization, or institution recognized by law as a person.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Includes:
      (1)   A dog that is determined by the Animal Control Director to be
potentially dangerous because the dog has engaged in one or more following
behaviors:
         (a)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
         (b)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when
not on the owner’s real property; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Exclusions to the definition of POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG are
restricted to:
         (a)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the
law enforcement officer’s official duties;
         (b)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
         (c)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was
sustained by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog,
herding dog, or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control
of, its owner or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of
domestic animal appropriate to the work of the dog; or
         (d)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   PROVOCATION. Any act towards an animal that a reasonable person would expect
to irritate or enrage such an animal to the extent that the animal would be
likely to bite or attack, including, but not limited to, teasing, harassing,
beating, torturing, injuring, or intentionally causing pain to an animal.
PROVOCATION does not include any actions on the part of an individual that
pertain to reasonable efforts of self-defense or defense of others.
   RABIES. The acute viral disease of the central nervous system that affects
humans and other mammals, also known as hydrophobia.
   RABIES VACCINE. An animal rabies vaccine licensed by the United States
Department of Agriculture and approved for use in this state by the Commission
for Public Health.
   RABIES VECTOR. Any species commonly recognized to be a carrier of rabies,
such as, but not limited to, dogs, cats, raccoons, foxes, skunks, coyote, and
bats.
   RESTRAINT. To limit the movement of an animal by means of a chain, leash,
fence, or other physical or electronic device of sufficient strength, which
allows the control of an animal.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, means an
enclosure from which an animal cannot escape by means of digging under, going
through, or jumping over the enclosure, or otherwise becoming free unless freed
by the owner.
   SECURITY DOG. Any dog used, kept, or maintained by its owner or keeper for
the purpose of protecting any person or property.
   SEROLOGIC MONITORING. Blood testing for an animal that has been exposed to
rabies when the owner is not able to provide documentation of a past rabies
vaccine. It is a method for evaluating an animal’s immune response as evidence
of prior rabies vaccination.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires reconstructive surgery or hospitalization.
   STRAY or LOST. Any animal found within the county or applicable municipality
wandering at large which does not have an owner and does not bear evidence of
identification of any owner, or any animal whose owner, if determinable, has
failed to attach a valid rabies tag or identification tag for the animal.
   SURRENDER. To give up entirely, to relinquish all ownership rights of an
animal.
   VACCINATION. The administration of rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian
or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal that is not domesticated. A hybrid of any animal,
regardless of genetic percentages, shall be deemed a WILD ANIMAL.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.002  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority vested in the county by
the General Statutes of the state, particularly G.S. §§ 67-4.1 to 67-4.5
(Dangerous Dogs); G.S. §§ 14-360 to 14-363 (Cruelty to Animals); G.S. §§ 130A-
184 to 130A-201 (Rabies); G.S. 153A-121 (General Ordinance-Making Power); G.S.
§ 153A-123 (Enforcement of Ordinances); G.S. § 153A-127 (Abuse of Animals);
G.S. § 153A-131 (Dangerous Animals); and other applicable laws. The purpose of
this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of county residents
and the animals residing within the county and to regulate and control the
conduct, keeping, and care of those animals.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.003  REGULATIONS ADDITIONAL TO EXISTING LAWS.
   Procedures set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may exist under law or ordinance.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.004  JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be effective within the unincorporated areas of the
county and within the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of any
municipality within the county which shall so agree by appropriate resolution.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.005  RELATION TO HUNTING LAWS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be in conflict with the laws of the
state regulating, restricting, authorizing, or otherwise affecting dogs while
used in hunting, but this exception applies only while the dogs are in the
presence of the owner, keeper, or competent person, and are actually and
lawfully being used for hunting or training for hunting and in compliance with
applicable statutes, regulations, or ordinances. This chapter shall be read and
enforced consistently with any such law.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.006  APPLICABILITY TO ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The county shall operate and maintain a county animal shelter, known as the
county animal ark, for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held
under the authority of state law, this chapter, or any other county ordinance.
The county may contract for animal shelter operations and needs as deemed
appropriate.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.007  ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Authority is hereby granted to the county’s Animal Control Department
to enforce this chapter. This chapter shall be enforced by all nonsworn animal
control officers as well as by sworn law enforcement officers utilizing the
additional rights, powers, and immunities granted to sworn officers.
   (B)   Authority is hereby granted to the county’s Animal Control Department
to establish and maintain an animal control program, to employ animal control
officers and such other employee(s) as shall be determined necessary by the
county, and to appoint and compensate animal control officers and such other
employees in accordance with policies of the county.
   (C)   The county’s Animal Control Department shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility along with law enforcement agencies, and
where applicable with animal cruelty investigators, to enforce all laws of the
state and all ordinances of the county pertaining to animals and shall
cooperate with all law enforcement officers within the county in fulfilling
this duty;
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of the state and all county
ordinances pertaining to animals and rabies control in cooperation with the
Health Director, except as herein provided;
      (3)   Operate the county animal shelter known as the county animal ark;
      (4)   Be responsible for the seizure and arranging for the impoundment,
where deemed necessary, of any animal in the county involved in a violation of
this chapter or any other county ordinance or state law;
      (5)   Make such investigations or inquiries as necessary for the purpose
of ascertaining compliance with this chapter or applicable state statute;
      (6)   Be empowered to issue civil penalties or notices of violation of
this chapter in such form as the Animal Control Director may prescribe; and
      (7)   Be empowered to enter upon private property to investigate
violations of this chapter and/or of state law and to seize and impound animals
pursuant to this chapter or by an order of a court in competent jurisdiction of
this state.
   (D)   The county’s Animal Control Department shall keep, or cause to be
kept, accurate and detailed records of:
      (1)   Seizure, impoundment, and disposition of all animals coming into
the custody of the animal control program in compliance with the regulations
enacted pursuant to the state’s Animal Welfare Act, being G.S. Ch. 19A, Art. 3;
      (2)   Animal bites to humans, rabies control investigations, ordinance
and other violations and complaints, and their investigation;
      (3)   All monies belonging to the county, including but not limited to
fees, penalties, and donations; and
      (4)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the Animal Control Director.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.008  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
molest an employee of the county’s Animal Control Department while in the
performance of any duty as set out in this chapter or to tamper or remove
animal control equipment. It shall also be unlawful for any person to seek to
release, attempt to release, or to release any animal in the custody of the
county’s Animal Control Department, except as otherwise specifically provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall be enforced by imposing the specific sanctions,
penalties, fines, and remedies described herein, by seeking injunctive relief,
orders of abatement, and any other means prescribed by statute or common law.
   (C)   Enforcement of this chapter may be by any appropriate equitable
remedy, penalty, injunction, of order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e), or any other
applicable law.
   (D)   The Animal Control Director or any other person duly authorized by the
county may commence legal action on behalf of the county to take necessary
legal steps to collect any amount for outstanding costs, fees, or penalties
assessed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009  TAX AND LICENSING DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOG. Any female or male dog.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring a dog (or dogs).
      UNSPAYED FEMALE. Any bitch or female dog which has not been operated upon
to prevent conception.
   (B)   Imposition of tax and licensing.
      (1)   Any dog owner shall pay annually a license tax on the privilege of
keeping such dog within the county.
      (2)   The yearly license tax shall be $2 for each unspayed female and $1
for each male and spayed female dog.
      (3)   (a)   Dogs are to be listed by the owner for the license tax at the
same time that property is listed for ad valorem taxes. In addition, the list
takers are under the duty to inquire, at the time of property listing, of the
sex and number of dogs owned by each tax payer.
         (b)   If a person purchases or acquires a dog after the listing
period, it is his or her responsibility to ascertain whether the dog was listed
for license tax and, if not, to list the animal and to pay the license fee when
due.
         (c)   The license tax is due and payable from September 1 through
December 31 of each year. Receipt of payment would serve as a license.
         (d)   Penalties will be 10% for late listing and 9% each year for late
paying.
         (e)   Any owner owning ten or more dogs which are kept confined during
the non-hunting season, may pay a kennel license tax of $10 in lieu of $1 for
males and spayed females and $2 for unspayed females. Upon payment, the receipt
of payment would serve as a license.
   (C)   Exemptions. The license requirements of this chapter shall not apply:
      (1)   To dogs brought into the county for the purposes of participating
in any dog show; or
      (2)   To dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
county.
   (D)   Fee schedule. A copy of the fee schedule can be found in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed - -, Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.020  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement state laws, as amended,
for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies control, including, but
not limited to:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner/keeper or other person to
fail to comply with the state laws or this chapter relating to the control of
rabies;
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction as required;
   (C)   Upon approval of the Health Director, Animal Control Department
employee(s) may be appointed as certified rabies vaccinator(s) to possess and
administer rabies vaccines for animals in the county until the appointment by
the Health Director has been terminated;
   (D)   The County Health Director may delegate specific rabies control
activities to the county’s Animal Control Department; and
   (E)   Animal control officers are authorized to canvass the county to
determine if there are any dogs or cats not wearing the required rabies
vaccination tag.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021  VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of every dog, cat, and ferret four months of age
or older shall maintain current rabies vaccination for each animal.
   (B)   All dogs and cats shall wear a valid rabies tag.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, for any animal, a rabies
vaccination tag issued for another animal.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022  REQUIREMENTS FOR ANIMALS THAT ENTER THE STATE.
   (A)   A dog or cat brought into the state shall immediately be securely
confined and shall be vaccinated against rabies within one week after entry and
shall remain confined for two weeks after rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Exceptions to this section are restricted to a dog or cat brought into
the state accompanied by a certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian
showing that the dog or cat is apparently free from and has not been exposed to
rabies and that the dog or cat is current on the rabies vaccine.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.023  ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Animal bites to humans shall be reported immediately to the county’s
Animal Control Department and/or the Health Director.
   (B)   Every owned dog, cat, or ferret which has bitten any person shall be
immediately impounded at the animal shelter, confined at a veterinary facility
or other facility approved by the Health Director for a minimum period of ten
calendar days or a minimum of 240 hours from the time of the bite.
   (C)   Every dog, cat, or ferret which has bitten any person whose ownership
is unknown shall be immediately impounded at the county animal shelter for a
minimum of three business days. If the animal owner has not been identified
within three business days, the animal may be euthanized and sent for rabies
testing.
   (D)   The Health Director may authorize a dog trained and used by a law
enforcement agency to be released from confinement/impoundment to perform
official duties upon submission of proof to the county’s Animal Control
Department that the dog is currently vaccinated against rabies in compliance
with state law.
   (E)   The owner/keeper of a dog, cat, or ferret confined or impounded shall
be responsible for all fees and penalties imposed as a result of such
confinement or impoundment.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.024  DESTRUCTION OR CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   (A)   Dogs or cats that have been bitten or otherwise have been exposed to a
rabid or potentially rabid animal who have been vaccinated against rabies at
least 28 days prior to the bite or exposure, and have appropriate
documentation, shall receive immediate veterinary care with a rabies booster
dose within 96 hours of the exposure and placed under owner observation for 45
days. Owners or keepers shall allow animal control officers to enter during
reasonable hours to inspect the animal.
   (B)   Dogs or cats that have been bitten or otherwise have been exposed to a
rabid or potentially rabid animal who have never been vaccinated against rabies
shall be euthanized or receive immediate veterinary care with a rabies
vaccination within 96 hours of the exposure; shall be immediately impounded and
confined at a veterinary facility for a period of four months.
   (C)   Dogs and cats that have been bitten or otherwise have been exposed to
a rabid or potentially rabid animal who are overdue for a rabies vaccination
but have appropriate documentation of prior rabies vaccination shall receive
immediate veterinary care with a rabies booster dose within 96 hours of
exposure and placed under owner observation for 45 days.
   (D)   Dogs and cats that have been bitten or otherwise have been exposed to
a rabid or potentially rabid animal that are overdue for a rabies vaccination
with no documentation of a prior rabies vaccination shall be euthanized or
receive immediate veterinary care with a rabies vaccination given within 96
hours of the exposure and immediately impounded and confined at a veterinary
facility for a period of four months. Dogs and cats may also undergo
prospective serologic monitoring after receiving immediate veterinary care and
a rabies vaccination. If there is evidence of prior vaccination, the animal
will be placed under owner observation for 45 days allowing animal control
officers to enter during reasonable hours to inspect the animal. If no evidence
of prior vaccination, the animal will be treated as unvaccinated and will be
euthanized or confined to a veterinary facility for a period of four months.
   (E)   If the rabies booster is delayed, the local Health Director may
consider increasing the observation period (case-by-case) or quarantine period
(from four to six months), considering the severity of the exposure, length in
delay in vaccination, current health status, and number of prior rabies
vaccines and lapses.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
ANIMAL CRUELTY
§ 90.035  SUPPLEMENT TO STATE LAW.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement state laws, as
amended, relating to animals.
   (B)   The Animal Control Director shall serve as the animal cruelty
investigator and is empowered with the duties and powers described by G.S. §§
19A-45 to 19A-49.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.036  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner/keeper or other person to
fail to comply with the state laws relating to the control, care, and custody
of animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse, molest, maim, disfigure,
torture, torment; to deprive of necessary sustenance, adequate food, water, and
shelter; to cruelly beat, mutilate, kill, wound, injure, poison, abandon, or
subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general welfare any animal;
or to cause or procure such action.
   (C)   The words TORTURE and TORMENT shall be held to include every act,
omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death
is caused or permitted; but such terms shall not be construed to prohibit
lawful shooting of birds, deer, and other game for human food; not to prohibit
an animal’s owner, a veterinarian, the Health Director, or the Animal Control
Department from destroying dangerous or injured animals in a humane manner, nor
to prohibit the lawful use of animals in scientific research.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing and intentionally to
harbor, feed, or keep in possession by confinement or otherwise, any animal
which does not belong to him or her, without the permission of the owner,
unless he or she has within 72 hours from the time such animal came into his or
her possession, notified the county’s Animal Control Department.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to confine an animal in a vehicle
under conditions that are likely to cause suffering, injury, or death to the
animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, or under other
endangering conditions.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to abandon or forsake any
animal within the county.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037  MANNER OF KEEPING AND TREATING ANIMALS.
   Owners and keepers of dogs, cats, and other animals shall provide food,
shelter, and medical attention to such animals, including, but not limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Sufficient wholesome food that is nutritious for the species;
   (B)   Fresh, potable drinking water;
   (C)   Medical attention to relieve such animal from suffering;
   (D)   When sunlight is likely to cause overheating and discomfort,
sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all dogs and cats kept outdoors to
protect themselves from the direct rays of the sun;
   (E)   Shelter to allow the animal to remain dry and protected from the
elements. Such shelter shall be fully enclosed on three sides, roofed, and have
a solid floor. The entrance to the shelter shall be flexible to allow the
animal’s entry and exit, and sturdy enough to block entry of wind and rain. The
shelter shall be small enough to retain the animal’s body heat and large enough
to allow the animal to stand and turn completely. The enclosure shall be
structurally sound in good repair. Under this section, shelters whose wire,
grid, or slat floors permit the animals’ feet to pass through the openings, sag
under the animals’ weight, or otherwise do not permit the animal’s feet or toes
from injury, are not adequate shelter;
   (F)   A suitable method shall be provided to rapidly eliminate excess water;
and
   (G)   The following arrangements do not constitute adequate shelter and
protection during extreme or inclement weather condition:
      (1)   Underneath exterior steps, stoops, or similar structures;
      (2)   Inside of vehicles;
      (3)   Inside cardboard boxes;
      (4)   Inside buildings or rooms within buildings, without proper air
circulation; and
      (5)   Crates used for transportation.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
ANIMAL NUISANCE
§ 90.050  CREATING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person, owner, or keeper to permit or cause
an animal to create or maintain a nuisance.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a written, certified complaint alleging that any
person, owner, or keeper is creating or maintaining a nuisance, the Animal
Control Director shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal in question to
be notified that a complaint has been received and shall cause the situation
complained upon to be investigated and a written report to be prepared.
   (C)   When an animal control officer or law enforcement officer observes a
violation of this section, a written report shall be prepared; the person,
owner, or keeper shall be provided written notification of such violation and
be given 48 hours to abate the nuisance.
   (D)   If, after 48 hours as is designated in an abatement order, the
nuisance is not abated, the owner or keeper may be issued a civil penalty or
other appropriate legal remedy.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.051  CONTROL OF SECURITY DOGS.
   (A)   Security dogs are subject to all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All persons owning or keeping a security dog shall register such dog
(s) with the county’s Animal Control Department within 15 days providing such
information as the county’s Animal Control Department requires.
   (C)   The premises in which a security dog is kept or allowed access to
shall display at least one plainly visible sign posted upon each side of the
secure enclosure warning that a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog is on
the premises. Such signage shall be no smaller than one foot by two feet or two
square feet in area and said sign shall read: “Warning! Dangerous Dog on
Premises” in letters and height legible to a person of ordinary vision from 20
feet. In addition, the owner or keeper shall post at least one plainly visible
sign displayed upon each side of the premises in which a security dog is kept
or allowed access to no smaller than one foot by two feet or two square feet in
area with a graphic representation of an appropriate animal such that the
dangerousness of the animal is communicated to those who cannot read, including
young children.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.052  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The county’s Animal Control Department is hereby granted the authority
to seize and impound animals in violation of this chapter, stray animals, and
animals surrendered by the owner.
   (B)   The duration of impoundment of stray animals shall not be less than
three business days. During the impoundment period, the Animal Control
Department shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner of the animal.
   (C)   A surrendered animal shall become property of the county at the time
of impoundment.
   (D)   A domestic animal impounded under this chapter may be reclaimed by its
owner or keeper according to the procedures of the animal shelter.
   (E)   Animals not reclaimed within three business days are considered
surrendered or abandoned and become the property of the county’s Animal Control
Department and disposed of according to animal shelter procedures.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that
has or is endangering a human or domesticated animal and cannot be seized by
reasonable and normal means, may be tranquilized or be humanely destroyed in
the field.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.053  ADOPTING EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years old shall be permitted to adopt an
animal.
   (B)   The county animal shelter may refuse, at the discretion of the Animal
Control Director, to adopt animals to persons or organizations cited or charged
for violations of this chapter or state law or where there exists reasonable
suspicion of abuse, neglect, or mistreatment of animals.
   (C)   The county animal shelter may refuse adoption to persons who have
surrendered animals to the animal shelter within the past 12 months.
   (D)   Animal welfare and adoption organizations shall provide evidence that
all required veterinarian and related services will be provided to the animals,
and that all necessary permits and licenses have been obtained prior to being
approved for adoption of animals from the county animal shelter. Approved
animal welfare and adoption organizations are responsible for all applicable
fees and related costs associated with the animals being adopted.
   (E)   The county animal shelter shall not offer for adoption dogs or other
animals that have been deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (F)   No owner shall be permitted to adopt his or her own animal.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.065  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement state laws for the
enforcement of state laws relating to dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous
dogs.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.066  POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board to
hear appeals of determinations of potentially dangerous dogs.
   (B)   The Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board is voluntary and shall be
composed of five regular members and two alternates. All the members and the
alternates shall be residents of the county and appointed by the County Board
of Commissioners to serve a three-year term. At least one of the regular
members shall be a licensed veterinarian, if available, one a livestock owner,
one a sworn law enforcement officer, and two or three members representing the
public at large.
   (C)   At any hearing, an employee of the county’s Animal Control Department
shall be assigned to take minutes, of which shall be considered a matter of
public record and the Animal Control Department shall be the custodian thereof.
   (D)   A quorum of at least three members (any combination of regular members
and alternates) must be present at an appellate board hearing in order for the
Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board to conduct business.
   (E)   The members of the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board shall
disclose any personal involvement they have had with the case to be heard, the
individuals involved, or other conflicts of interest, and upon a motion of the
Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board, be excused for the hearing at hand.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.067  DECLARATION OF DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   The Animal Control Director may find and declare a dog dangerous or
potentially dangerous if probable cause is found to believe that the dog falls
within the definitions set forth in this chapter. The finding must be based
upon one or more of the following:
      (1)   The written and signed complaint of a citizen, who is willing to
testify that the dog has acted in a manner that is defined as a dangerous dog
or potentially dangerous dog;
      (2)   Authenticated dog bite reports filed with the county’s Animal
Control Department;
      (3)   Actions of the dog witnessed and reported upon by any animal
control officer or law enforcement officer;
      (4)   The declaration by a judicial authority or another animal control
authority pursuant to G.S. § 67.1; and
      (5)   Other credible evidence.
   (B)   The declaration notice of potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog
shall be in writing and shall be served on the owner in person, or by certified
mail, to the owner’s last known address.
   (C)   The declaration shall state:
      (1)   A description of the dog;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the dog, if known;
      (3)   The whereabouts of the dog if it is not in the custody of the
owner;
      (4)   The facts upon which the declaration is based;
      (5)   The restrictions placed on the dog as a result of the declaration;
and
      (6)   Penalty for violation of this subchapter, state law, or other
applicable laws, including the possibility of destruction of the dog.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.068  RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of a dog which has been declared potentially dangerous has
the right to appeal the declaration to the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals
Board.
      (1)   The owner of a dog which has been declared potentially dangerous
has the right to appeal the declaration by filing a written objection, stating
the grounds for the appeal, with the county’s Animal Control Department within
seven business days of receipt of the potentially dangerous dog declaration
letter.
      (2)   After declaration that a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous
and during any part of the appeals process, the owner or keeper of the dog
shall adequately confine the dog.
      (3)   The Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board shall hold a hearing
within ten business days of the receipt of the written objections.
      (4)   The Animal Control Director shall have the burden of proof and may
request witnesses be present and introduce evidence.
      (5)   The owner requesting the appeal will be given an opportunity to
disprove the element(s) which constitute the declaration.
      (6)   The Animal Control Director will be given a final opportunity to
clarify any conflicts, ambiguities, or inconsistencies created by or arising
from the statements or evidence. The Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
may ask questions at any time during the appeal hearing and may request
additional evidence from either party.
      (7)   The final decision of the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
shall be in writing and shall be maintained as public record.
   (B)   If the decision is in favor of the appellant, the county’s Animal
Control Department shall immediately cease efforts to implement any sanction(s)
imposed by this subchapter. Any decision rendered by the Potentially Dangerous
Dog Appeals Board applies only to the violation(s) appealed and the specific
dog(s) in question and does not prevent the Animal Control Department from
enforcing a subsequent violation of the same provision or any other provision
of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board upholds or affirms the
declaration of the Animal Control Director or his or her designee, the owner is
responsible for all applicable fees and civil penalties.
   (D)   The final decision of the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
hearing shall be sent to the owner of the dog within seven working days
following the decision of the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board.
   (E)   Any appeal from the final decision of the Potentially Dangerous Dog
Appeals Board shall be taken to the Superior Court by filing a notice of appeal
and petition for review within ten business days of receipt of the final
decision of the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board.
   (F)   If the owner of the dog does not file a written appeal of the
Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board ruling with the Superior Court within
the time period required, or if the owner of the dog does not comply with the
confinement requirements as specified in this subchapter within 21 calendar
days of the final decision of the Potentially Dangerous Dog Appeals Board or
Superior Court, the dog becomes the property of the county and subject to
seizure.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.069  PROTECTION FROM DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   The owner of a dog declared dangerous or potentially dangerous shall
immediately confine the dog as provided in this section and within 21 calendar
days of the declaration or final decision of the Potential Dangerous Dog
Appeals Board, by providing:
   (A)   Such dog shall be kept, secured, and restrained while on the real
property of the person owning, keeping, or harboring it only in the following
ways:
      (1)   In a building with doors, windows, and other exits securely
fastened shut under the supervision and control of a responsible adult person
capable of such supervision and control;
      (2)   Securely kept in a locked enclosure which has secure side, top, and
bottom and is constructed out of materials and in a manner that will preclude
escape by the dog and prevent entry by small children. An underground electric
fence is not a sufficient method of enclosure;
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside the enclosure/
confinement unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or
leash not more than nine feet in length and under physical restraint of a
competent and responsible person, at least 18 years of age. The muzzle shall be
made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal;
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a dangerous dog shall not be left
unattended on the owner’s real property unless the dog is confined indoors, in
a securely enclosed and locked pen, or in a locked enclosure which has secure
sides, top, and bottom and is constructed out of material and in a manner,
which will preclude escape by the dog and prevent entry by small children; and
      (5)   At least one plainly visible sign posted upon each side of the
secure enclosure warning that a dangerous dog is on the premises. Such signage
shall be no smaller than one foot by two feet or two square feet in area and
said sign shall read; “Warning! Dangerous Dog on Premises” in letters and
height legible to a person of ordinary vision from 20 feet. In addition, the
owner shall post at least one plainly visible sign displayed upon each side of
the secure enclosure no smaller than one foot by two feet or two square feet in
area with graphic representation of an appropriate animal such that the
dangerousness of the animal is communicated to those who cannot read, including
young children.
   (B)   Evidence of a current policy of liability insurance, held in the name
of the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog’s owner/keeper, in the amount of
at least $100,000, at the owner’s expense, for the benefit of any person who
suffers damages, injury, or death caused by a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog for as long as the dog remains in the county and that the insurer
shall immediately notify the county’s Animal Control Department of any changes
in the insurance coverage or policy;
   (C)   At least one photograph, acceptable to the county’s Animal Control
Department, of the dog declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous;
   (D)   A functional and registered microchip implanted into the dog declared
as dangerous or potentially dangerous, the current and active microchip
registration number filed with the county’s Animal Control Department;
   (E)   The dog’s owner or keeper shall have the duty to immediately notify
the Animal Control Department and Sheriff’s Department if the dog escapes or is
otherwise not in confinement;
   (F)   The owner or keeper shall be strictly liable in civil damages for any
injuries or property damage caused or inflicted by the dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog;
   (H)   The county’s Animal Control Department shall have the authority to
summarily seize and impound the dog if the owner or keeper fails to comply with
any provisions of this section; and
   (I)   The owner must allow officers of the Animal Control Department to make
whatever inquiries deemed necessary to assure compliance with these provisions
including inspection of the owner’s premises where the dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog is confined.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.070  TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog transferring
ownership or possession of the dog to another person shall provide the
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog declaration notice to the new owner or
possessor upon the transfer of the dog.
   (B)   The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog transferring
ownership or possession of the dog to another person shall provide the county’s
Animal Control Department a notice containing the name and address of the
prior/current owner or possessor of the dog and the new owner or possessor of
the dog within three business days of the transfer.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
§ 90.071  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION OF DOG COLLARS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally remove or destroy electronic/tracking/
identification collars or other electronic devices or identification placed on
a dog by its owner to maintain control and/or identify the dog or the dog’s
location.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.072  EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to import, sell,
possess, transport, or participate in importation, for the purpose of selling
or possession of any non-indigenous predatory carnivores such as, but not
limited to:
   (A)   Lions, tigers, leopards, ocelots, jaguars, cheetah, wolves, or hybrids
thereof;
   (B)   Any exotic animal, which by its physical characteristics or natural
instincts is capable of causing death or serious bodily injury to persons; and
   (C)   Exclusions to this section are restricted to traveling circuses or
exhibits with a current authorization of and by federal law, state law, or
county regulation, code, or permit.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any civil penalties outlined in this chapter, the
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a Class III misdemeanor and
any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S.
§§ 14-4 and 153A-123, and may be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment. Such violation may be punishable by any other applicable law.
Each day’s violation of this chapter is a separate offense. Payment of a fine
imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this chapter does not relieve a
person of his or her liability for registration, fees, or civil penalties
imposed under or pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Director may cause issuance to an owner or keeper
or a person in violation of this chapter or applicable state law, warnings,
notices, or civil penalties giving notice of violation(s). Any such penalty
issued shall impose upon the owner a civil penalty as listed in the county fee
schedule. Penalties shall increase for each subsequent offense.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, all notices or civil
penalties required by this chapter to be sent or delivered shall be made by
personal service; by first class or certified mail; or by affixing the notice
to the last known residence.
   (D)   Civil penalties are due 20 days from the date of issuance and are to
be paid to the county’s Animal Control Department.
   (E)   All fees and costs associated with the care of an animal shall be paid
by the owner at the time of redemption. Animals not redeemed within three
business days shall become the property of the county. Surrender or abandonment
of an animal or failure to redeem an animal from impoundment shall not relieve
a recipient of civil penalties or animal owner from the responsibility for
payment of any outstanding civil penalty or fees assessed prior to the animal
being surrendered, abandoned, or as a result of an animal being impounded.
   (F)   Authorization to initiate legal or other proceedings for failure to
remit payment for a civil penalty or fee after 20 days of issuance or
expiration of impoundment is hereby granted to the county’s Animal Control
Department or other authorized county office to recover the amount of the
penalty or fee.
   (G)   If the recipient of a civil penalty imposed by this chapter does not
appear in response to such penalty, or if the applicable penalty is not paid
within the time prescribed, a criminal summons may be issued against the
violator or owner or person having custody of the animal in violation of this
chapter and, upon conviction, the violator shall, in addition to penalties
prescribed for violation of this chapter, be punished as the court prescribes
for failure to pay the civil penalties imposed by this chapter.
   (H)   The Board of County Commissioners may impose fees for penalties and
services rendered by the county’s Animal Control Department and use debt set-
off as a means of collection of monies owed.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2018)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
Noise Pollution
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Measurement techniques for decibel readings
   
91.05   Sound emission standards and limitations
   
91.06   Unlawful noise
   
91.07   Nuisance noises and noise pollution
   
91.08   Enforcement
   
91.09   Complaint of violations creates presumption in prosecution for noise
violations
   
91.10   Burden on respondent to prove exception to restriction met
   
91.11   Permits for temporary variances
   
91.12   Jurisdiction
   
91.13   Application for temporary variance
False Fire Alarms
   
91.25   Title
   
91.26   Purpose
   
91.27   Application
   
91.28   Alarm responses
   
91.29   Exclusions
   
91.30   Prohibited acts
   
91.31   Enforcement of violations
   
91.32   Miscellaneous
Open Burning
   
91.45   Purpose and authority
   
91.46   Extinguishment of fires
   
91.47   Obstruction of operations
Fireworks and Pyrotechnics
   
91.60   Definition
   
91.61   Possession of pyrotechnics
   
91.62   Age limitation
   
91.63   Exception
   
91.64   Prohibited locations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NOISE POLLUTION
§ 91.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Warren County Noise
Pollution Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is recognized that loud sounds crossing outdoor private property
boundaries can endanger the physical and emotional health and welfare of the
people, interfere with legitimate communication in business and recreation,
interfere with sleep, increase construction costs, depress property values,
offend the senses, create public nuisances, and in many respects reduce the
quality of life.
   (B)   It is further recognized that a substantial body of science and
technology exists by which this sound may be measured and, in many cases,
abated. Because the regulation of excessive and/or unnecessary noise that may
jeopardize human health or welfare or substantially degrade the quality of life
is well within the purview of this governing body’s police powers, it is
declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to prevent, prohibit, and provide
for the regulation and abatement of such sound which may jeopardize the health
or welfare or degrade the quality of life of the county citizens.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A” WEIGHTING SCALE. The sound pressure level, in decibels, as measured with
the sound level meter using the “A” weighted network (scale). The standard unit
notation is dB(A).
   AMBIENT BASE NOISE LEVEL. The average sound pressure level in dB(A) during a
reasonable period of time, as determined by employing a sound level meter as
described in §
91.04 and excluding impulsive sounds, or, the sound normally present at a
location when a sound source under investigation is not in operation.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies.
   CONSTRUCTION. On-site erection, fabrication, installation, alteration,
demolition, or removal of any structure, facility, or addition thereto,
including all related activities, including, but not restricted to, clearing
the land, earth moving, blasting, and landscaping.
   DAYTIME HOURS. Seven a.m. until 11:00 p.m. from Sunday through Thursday. For
the days of Friday and Saturday, daytime hours are defined as 7:00 a.m. until
12:00 am. (DAYTIME HOURS do not apply to high impact land use facilities
defined and regulated hereunder.)
   dB(A). Sound level in decibels determined by the “A” weighting scale of a
standard sound level meter having characteristics defined by the American
National Standards Institute, Publication ANSI, SI.4-1971, for a Type 2
instrument.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale, of the ratio of the
magnitude of a particular sound pressure to a standard reference pressure.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition,
work required to protect, provide, or prevent persons or property from danger
or potential danger, or work by private or public utilities when restoring
utility service.
   HIGH IMPACT LAND USE (HILU). Land use that may, by its very nature, produce
objectionable (and even unsafe) levels of noise, odors, vibrations, fumes,
light, smoke, and/or other impacts upon the lands adjacent to them. Such HILU
shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Construction and demolition landfill. A disposal site for solid
waste resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations
on pavement, buildings, or other structures, including, but not limited to,
such as may be contributed by the county, the state’s Department of Environment
and Natural Resources, and/or the state’s Department of Transportation.
      (2)   Drag strip and/or race track. A facility purposed for the
conducting of races of human-operated machines (e.g., automobiles, go-carts,
lawnmowers, motorcycles, and the like.)
      (3)   Sanitary landfill. A disposal facility or part of a facility where
waste is placed in or on land and that is not a land treatment facility,
surface impoundment, an injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage
facility, or a surface storage facility; a sanitary landfill facility is for
solid waste disposal in a sanitary manner in accordance with the rules
concerning sanitary landfills adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
      (4)   Swine farm. A tract of land devoted to raising 200 or more animals
of the porcine species.
      (5)   Waste processing facilities. Includes incinerator, composting
facility, household hazardous waste facility, waste-to-energy facility,
transfer stations, reclamation facility, or any other locations where solid
wastes are consolidated, temporarily stored, salvaged, or otherwise processed
prior to being transported to a final disposal site.
   HILU DAYTIME HOURS. Eight a.m. until 10:00 p.m. from Monday through
Thursday. For Fridays, HILU DAYTIME HOURS are defined as 8:00 a.m. until 11:00
p.m. For Saturdays, DAYTIME HOURS are defined as 9:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. For
Sundays, HILU DAYTIME HOURS are defined as 10:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m.
    HILU NIGHTTIME HOURS. One minute after 10:00 p.m. beginning Monday and
ending 7:59 a.m. Friday. For Friday nights, NIGHTTIME is defined as 11:01 p.m.
until 8:59 a.m. Saturday. For Saturday nights, NIGHTTIME is defined as 11:01
p.m. until 9:59 a.m. Sunday.
   NIGHTTIME HOURS. One minute after 11:00 p.m. until 6:59 a.m. from Sunday
through Thursday. For the nights of Friday and Saturday, NIGHTTIME is defined
as 12:01 a.m. until 6:59 a.m. (NIGHTTIME HOURS do not apply to high impact land
use facilities defined and regulated hereunder.)
   NUISANCE NOISE. Any excessive or unusually loud sound or any sound which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or which does annoy, disturb,
injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of any person
or causes damage to property or business.
   SOUND LEVEL. In decibels, a weighted sound pressure level determined by the
use of a sound level meter whose characteristics and frequency weightings are
specified in ANSI standards.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. Any instrument certified to meet or exceed ANSI standards
which include an omnidirectional microphone, an amplifier, an output meter, and
frequency weighting network(s) for the measurement of sound level.
   SOUND-MAGNIFYING DEVICE. Any device or machine for the magnification of a
human voice, music, or any other sound. SOUND-MAGNIFYING DEVICE shall not
include emergency warning devices on police, fire, ambulance, or other
emergency vehicles.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. In decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of the magnitude of a particular sound pressure to the standard
reference pressure. The standard reference pressure is 0.0002 microbars.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.04  MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES FOR DECIBEL READINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Noise measurements shall be made at the property line of the
property where the noise to be measured is being generated. If measurement on
private property is not possible or practical, noise measurements may be made
at the boundary of the public right-of-way which adjoins the complaining
property. Such noise measurements shall be made at a height of at least four
feet above the ground and at a point approximately ten feet away from walls,
barriers, and obstructions (e.g., trees, bushes, and the like), on a sound
level meter operated on the “A” weighting network (scale).
      (2)   In the case of noises within multi-family or multi-tenanted
structures, noise measurements shall be made in the complaining unit at a
height of at least four feet above the floor and at a point approximately
equidistant from all walls on a sound level meter operated on the “A” weighting
network (scale).
   (B)   No individual other than the operators shall be within ten feet of the
sound level meter during the sample period.
   (C)   Sound measurements shall be conducted at that time of day or night
when the suspect noise source is emitting sound.
   (D)   The sound level measurement shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   Calibrate the sound level meter within one hour before use;
      (2)   Set the sound level meter on the “A” weighting network (scale) at
slow response;
      (3)   Set the omni-directional microphone in an approximate 70-degree
position in a location which complies with divisions (A) and (B) above. The
operator of the sound level meter shall face the noise source and record the
meter’s instantaneous response (reading) observed at consecutive ten-second
intervals until 100 readings are obtained; and
      (4)   Re-calibrate the sound level meter after use.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, through the use of
sound or otherwise, with the taking of sound level measurements.
   (F)   HILU facilities shall not be subject to decibel reading measurements
during HILU daytime hours. However, any such reading taken and showing
impermissible levels before or after HILU daytime hours shall be evidence per
se of such facility’s violation of this subchapter and the burden shall
immediately shift to the HILU facility to show it is not in violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  SOUND EMISSION STANDARDS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, it shall be unlawful for
anyone to cause or allow the emission of sound from any source or sources which
when measured pursuant to §
91.04 exceeds the maximum decibel limits specified in Table 1 below. Ten
readings above the allowed decibel limits attributed to the sound source or
sources shall constitute prima facie evidence of a violation of this
subchapter. The sound meter operator may cease taking readings as soon as the
readings already taken show a violation of this subchapter. It shall not be
necessary to complete all 100 readings if a fewer number have already indicated
a violation of the subchapter.
 
Table 1. Maximum Noise Limitations dB(A)
Zoning Districts                            Daytime Hours Nighttime Hours
Agricultural Residential                    60            55
Group Camping and Tent Trailer Camping      55            45
Light Industrial                            70            65
Neighborhood Business and Lakeside Business 60            55
Residential                                 55            45
 
   (B)   When a noise source can be identified and its sound is measured in
more than one district, the average of the noise limitation of the two
districts shall apply.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the location of hospitals, rest homes, family care
homes, group care facilities, or public, private, or parochial schools or day
care facilities, it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the
emission of sound onto the structures of such uses which exceeds the maximum
noise limitations for Residential Zoning Districts.
   (D)   For activities which are necessary for railroad operations, it shall
be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the emission of sound from the
boundaries of railroad rights-of-way which exceeds 80 dB(A) for daytime and 75
dB(A) for nighttime, without regard for the zoning district of the abutting
property.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   No person or entity shall cause or allow the emission of sound beyond the
boundaries of his or her property or onto the property of another exceeding the
permissible sound level outlined herein during the impermissible hours of day
and/or night, which may seriously interfere with neighboring residents’
reasonable use of their properties.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  NUISANCE NOISES AND NOISE POLLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the
emission of any unreasonable loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noise in the
county. Specifically, it shall be unlawful to create or emit noise of the
character, intensity, or duration as to be detrimental to the health of any
individual or that is above the sound emission decibel limits set forth herein.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to play any radio, music player, television,
audio system, or musical instrument in the manner or at the volume as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of neighboring inhabitants or at a
volume which is plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the
premises in which the device or instrument is played and who are voluntary
listeners thereto.
      (3)   Except for organized events which have received any type of permit
required in conjunction with the event, it shall be unlawful to play any radio,
music player, television, or audio system upon a public right-of-way or upon
other public property in the manner or at the volume as to disturb the quiet,
comfort, or response of other persons.
   (B)   No person shall play any radio, music player, or audio system in a
motor vehicle at the volume as to disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of
other persons or at a volume which is plainly audible to persons other than the
occupants of the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No sound magnifying device mounted on a vehicle shall be
operated between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. or at any time within
500 feet of any school, church, or hospital in the manner or at a volume which
is plainly audible to persons other than the occupants of the vehicle.
      (2)   No sound magnifying device mounted on a vehicle shall be operated
on a Sunday; provided that any such device may be operated in substitution for
a band as part of a parade held after 1:00 p.m. on Sunday under the auspices of
any organization authorized to hold the parade, if the permit issued for the
parade so indicates.
      (3)   The provisions of this section do not apply to sound-magnifying
devices controlled by any governmental entity or to private ambulances which
are engaged in responding to emergency calls.
   (D)   In addition to any other violation of this subchapter, the acts
enumerated below are specifically declared to be nuisance noises or
unreasonably loud, disturbing, and annoying or unnecessary noise, the creation
or emission of which shall be unlawful. Such enumeration shall not be deemed to
be exclusive:
      (1)   Yelling, shouting, whistling, or singing;
      (2)   Noisy parties;
      (3)   Loading operations (i.e., loading, unloading, opening, or otherwise
handling boxes, crates, containers, garbage cans, or other similar objects);
      (4)   Repair of motor vehicles (i.e., the repair, rebuilding, or testing
of any motor vehicle);
      (5)   Sound amplification equipment, television, stereos, boom boxes, or
other musical instrument(s);
      (6)   Horns and signaling devices, except as a warning of a safety
hazard, danger, or emergency;
      (7)   Vehicles not operating with original manufacturer-provided muffler,
or equivalent, in good working order;
      (8)   No motor shall be used on any watercraft unless it is equipped with
an efficient muffler, underwater exhaust, or other device which at all times
adequately muffles or suppresses the sound of the exhaust of the motor so as to
prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no motor shall be equipped with any
cutout. It is not the intent of this section to prohibit the use of any type
exhaust system or device, including those systems and devices that do not
discharge water with the exhaust gases;
      (9)   Exterior and mobile loud speakers;
      (10)   Power equipment, including, but not limited to, power tools,
generators, and garden equipment;
      (11)   The use or firing of explosives, firearms, or similar devices
which create impulsive sound;
      (12)   The sounding of a security alarm for more than 20 minutes after
the owner or responsible party has been notified by law enforcement personnel;
      (13)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle sound system on public
or private property, or a boom box on public or private property in such a
manner that the sound emanating from such equipment is detectable at a distance
of 30 feet from the source;
      (14)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church, or court while the same are in
session, or within 150 feet of any hospital which unreasonably interferes with
the working of such institution or which disturbs or duly annoys patients in
the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same is a school, church, court, or hospital street;
      (15)   The keeping of any bird, livestock, dogs, or other animal which by
causing frequent or long continued noise disturbs the comfort or repose of
individuals in the vicinity; and
      (16)   HILU facilities outlined in §
91.03 are determined to be nuisance noises or unreasonably loud, disturbing,
and annoying or unnecessary noise, the creation or emission of which shall be
unlawful if determined to have occurred outside of the permissible HILU daytime
hours set out herein.
   (E)   The following are exempt from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emanating from regularly scheduled outdoor athletic events or
recreational activities on the grounds of local schools or parks;
      (2)   Construction operations from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and
8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekends for which proper and valid building permits
have been issued, and/or; construction operations not requiring permits due to
ownership of the project by an agency of government. Such exemption presumes
that: all equipment is operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s (or
equivalent) specifications; all standard equipment has manufacturer’s (or
equivalent) mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use; and that all
equipment utilized is in properly operating condition;
      (3)   Legally used noises of safety signals, warning devices, emergency
pressure relief valves, and all church bells;
      (4)   Sound resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to any emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
      (5)   All noise coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
aircraft (not including scale model aircraft) which are specifically preempted
by the Federal Aviation Administration;
      (6)   Noises of vehicles traveling on public rights-of-way properly
equipped with the manufacturer’s standard (or equivalent) mufflers and noise-
reducing equipment, unless such vehicle is stopped and producing sound by use
of a bell, loudspeaker, or other device for the purpose of attracting attention
(for other than an emergency warning) or for the entertainment of the occupant
(s) or owner of the vehicle and/or a user of the vehicle whether the user is
located within or outside of the vehicle;
      (7)   Noise from lawful fireworks and noisemakers on holidays, at
religious ceremonies, and/or as part of or during a municipal celebration or
parade;
      (8)   Musical accompaniment or firearm discharge related to military
ceremonies;
      (9)   Noise resulting from a citizen’s careful, lawful, and proper use of
firearms on his or her own property, and/or on the property of another who has
given the user express authorization for such entry, for the purpose of target
practice and/or lawful hunting during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on
weekdays and 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. This exemption does not in any way extend
or change the legal hunting times and seasons but must be read congruent with
such;
      (10)   Emergency work necessary to maintain public safety, or to restore
property to a safe condition following an accident or natural disaster, or to
restore public utilities and infrastructure following an accident or natural
disaster, or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
      (11)   Noises resulting from the provision of government services
necessary to maintain the public infrastructure;
      (12)   Noises resulting from work performed by non-governmental agencies,
provided that such work is necessary to maintain the public infrastructure and
that a permit for the work has been issued by the county;
      (13)   Agricultural and horticultural operations conducted in a
reasonable manner on property classified as bona fide farms for ad valorem tax
purposes;
      (14)   Noises resulting from lawn care equipment used between 7:00 a.m.
to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., provided fuel engines of
any type are equipped with a functioning muffler;
      (15)   Music produced by school bands while practicing or performing on
school property and/or as part of a municipal celebration;
      (16)   Non-amplified crowd noises resulting from activities such as those
planned by student, governmental, or community groups, as well as those noises
resulting from a bona fide business event that lasts not longer than four hours
in a 24-hour period;
      (17)   Noises resulting from any activities of temporary duration for
which a permit allowing exemption from this section has been granted by the
county pursuant to §
91.11. Regulation of noises emanating from operations under such permit shall
be according to the conditions and limits stated on the permit; and
      (18)   HILU facilities outlined in §
91.03 are hereby made exempt during HILU daytime hours only.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff’s Department and officers of the state’s Wildlife
Commission shall enforce this subchapter, pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123, and may
include, but not be limited to, the equitable remedies contained therein. The
means of enforcement shall be in the sole discretion of the enforcer, whether
to utilize §§
91.04 or
91.09 as the measuring method, based on which method is more practical for
assessing the noise pollution at hand in each individual situation.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.09  COMPLAINT OF VIOLATIONS CREATES PRESUMPTION IN PROSECUTION FOR NOISE
VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person or group of persons will not be deemed to have violated §
91.06 unless the noise being created, caused, or allowed to continue by said
person(s) is reported on at least two occasions, at least 20 minutes apart, by
different complainants at two different locations when combined with the
complaint of a duly authorized investigating person, shall be prima facie
evidence that such sound is unreasonably loud, disturbing, and annoying or a
nuisance noise, or unless the noise is of such a nature that a reasonable
person should have known that the noise was a nuisance as defined in §
91.07. Sound emission decibel measurements shall not be required for
establishment of a prima facie case.
   (B)   Sounds created by existing sources and/or equipment in place and
operational prior to the effective date of this subchapter, and maintained in
good working order, are not violations of this subchapter if the sound levels
created do not exceed the limits allowed by this subchapter prior to the
effective date.
   (C)   HILU facilities outlined in §
91.03 shall only be subject to this presumption when and if the noise
complained of is shown to have occurred outside of HILU daytime hours.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.10  BURDEN ON RESPONDENT TO PROVE EXCEPTION TO RESTRICTION MET.
   In any proceeding pursuant to this section, if an exception may be
applicable to limit an obligation to comply with the regulations herein, the
person cited (“respondent”) who would benefit from the application of the
exception shall have the burden of persuasion that the exception applies and
that the terms of the exception have been met.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.11  PERMITS FOR TEMPORARY VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring relief from any provision of this subchapter
shall apply for a permit to cause or create noise which would otherwise be in
violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   Applications for permits must be made in writing to the County
Manager’s office and shall contain information which demonstrates that bringing
a source of sound or activity for which the permit is sought into compliance
with this subchapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the
applicant, or on the community, or on other persons. The fee for filing a
permit shall be $25.
   (B)   In determining whether to tentatively approve a permit or to grant or
deny an application, the Noise Control Permit Board (the County Manager, the
County Sheriff, or his or her designee; and the Director of the County Health
Department, or his or her designee) shall balance the hardship to the
applicant, the community, and other persons of not granting the permit against
the adverse impact on the health, safety, welfare, and comfort of persons
affected, the adverse impact on property affected, and other adverse impacts of
granting the permit. Any decision made on appeal by the County Board of
Commissioners shall be made on the same basis.
   (C)   If the permit is tentatively approved, the applicant shall be
responsible for mailing by first class mail or otherwise delivering to each
property owner, as shown on the tax records of the county owning property
within a 1,000-foot radius of the facility for which the permit has been
tentatively approved, a notice on a form provided by the County Manager’s
office showing the time and date of the event for which the permit is being
sought and any condition included as part of the tentative approval. The notice
shall indicate that if any person(s) wish to contest the granting of the
permit, they can do so by filing a statement in writing with the County
Manager’s office on or before the fifth day following the date of delivery of
the notice. Permits shall not be actually granted until the applicant submits
an affidavit to the County Manager’s office showing the dates such notices have
actually been mailed or otherwise delivered, and the time period for receiving
comments has elapsed. If the Noise Control Permit Board finds that a sufficient
controversy exists regarding the application, the Noise Control Permit Board
shall deny the permit. In granting or denying a permit, the Noise Control
Permit Board shall place on public file a copy of the decision and the reasons
for granting or denying the permit.
   (D)   Any applicant for a permit whose application is denied is entitled to
appeal to the County Board of Commissioners. Any five persons alleging to be
affected by a granted permit are entitled to appeal the granting of a permit.
An appeal voids the permit the granting of which is appealed; but such permit
may be reissued if the opponents do not give notice of public hearing as
required by this section. Appeals must be made in writing to the County Manager
within 72 hours of the granting or denial of the special permit. A public
hearing shall be held within 15 days of the date of the appeal. If the
applicant appeals, he or she shall be required to mail or otherwise deliver to
each property owner, as shown on the tax records of the county owning property
within a 1,000-foot radius of the facility for which the permit is sought, a
notice of the hearing prepared by the County Manager. Such notices must be
mailed by first-class mail or delivered at least seven days prior to the
hearing. If other persons appeal the granting of a permit, they must mail or
deliver notices to all property owners within the 1,000-foot radius as
specified above and to the applicant. Within five days following the public
hearing, the County Board of Commissioners shall grant or deny the permit and
place on public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for granting or
denying the permit.
   (E)   Any permit granted pursuant to this section shall contain thereon all
conditions upon which said permit has been granted, including, but not limited
to, the effective date, time of day, location, sound level limits, and
equipment limitations; provided, however, that no permit shall be issued for a
period in excess of 15 consecutive days. Any permit granted hereunder may be
renewed upon re-application. Noncompliance with any condition of the permit
shall terminate it and subject the permit holder to §
91.06.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.12  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be applicable and enforceable within all
unincorporated areas of the county. In addition, the governing board of any
city or town within the county may, by resolution, permit this subchapter
(except §
91.11) to become applicable and enforceable within said city or town.
   (B)   Any city or town washing to do so should give the county written
notice of the passage of the resolution permitting the enforcement within the
city or town at least 30 days prior to the proposed date for this subchapter to
become effective within said city or town. Such city or town may, in addition,
adopt a supplemental ordinance to provide its own procedure for considering
temporary variance permits if desired. The city or town may at any time
thereafter by resolution withdraw its permission to this subchapter.
   (C)   Thirty days after the county receives written notice of the passage of
a resolution withdrawing permission for the ordinance to be effective within
the city or town, this subchapter shall cease to be effective within said city
or town.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 91.13  APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY VARIANCE.
   The application for a temporary variance permit is available in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed - -)
FALSE FIRE ALARMS
§ 91.25  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as “The
Warren County Alarm Systems Regulations”.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
§ 91.26  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations governing alarm
systems requiring response thereto by or through the County E-911
Communications Center. The terms of this subchapter shall not prohibit alarm
companies from providing service by private source to other offices within the
geographical boundaries of the county.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
§ 91.27  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all unincorporated portions
of the county and to those incorporated municipalities which have entered into
an agreement with the county for its communications center to dispatch
personnel to respond to alarms within that municipality pursuant to G.S. §
153A-122.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
§ 91.28  ALARM RESPONSES.
   The county fire departments and county emergency services will provide a
maximum of two free false alarm responses to any alarm user within any calendar
year. Thereafter, a user fee, as approved by the County Board of Commissioners,
shall be charged for any alarm response in excess of the two fire alarm
responses.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
§ 91.29  EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of computing the number of alarm responses, an alarm
shall not include an alarm that is:
      (1)   Determined to have been activated by adverse weather conditions as
reported by the County Emergency Services Director or as reported by the
National Weather Service or the investigating responding agency;
      (2)   Activated by an outside animal;
      (3)   Activated by an electrical power outage to the electric meter on
the building housing the activated alarm system, provided that the alarm user
shall provide proof of the electrical outage within five business days of the
alarm response;
      (4)   An alarm where there is physical evidence of a fire; or
      (5)   A local alarm activated during alarm system testing procedures
shall not be considered an alarm for the purpose of computing alarm responses,
if the alarm user first notifies the County E-911 Communication Center of the
alarm testing.
   (B)   Any determination by an alarm responder that alarm activation was not
one of the exclusions herein may be appealed to the County Fire Marshal within
72 hours. The decision of the County Fire Marshal shall be final.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
§ 91.30  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate an alarm for the
purpose of summoning either law enforcement department or fire department
assistance when no fire, burglary, robbery, or any other crime dangerous to
life is being committed or attempted on the premises or otherwise to cause an
alarm response where there is no valid basis for causing the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail to reimburse the
county, in accordance with §
91.99(C), for alarm response(s) through the County E-911 Communication Center.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All violations of this subchapter, including failure to pay the fees
imposed herein within 14 days following notice that said fees are due, shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in the nature of a debt. Such civil
penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil action in the nature of a
debt, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c).
   (B)   Effective on the date of this subchapter, all alarm users shall begin
with a zero number of responses for purposes of §
91.99(C).
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
§ 91.32  MISCELLANEOUS.
   The alarm user, upon being notified that the alarm system has been
experiencing an excessive number of false alarms or has in some way become
defective, shall have the alarm system inspected and repaired by a qualified
individual or company so as to correct any malfunction, restore the system to
proper function, and shall thereafter notify the County E-911 Communication
Center when the necessary repairs have been completed.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2009)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.45  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   In conjunction with the state’s forest service burning ban, the County
Fire Marshal’s office shall issue a burning ban of all open burning within 100
feet of a structure and all fires shall be extinguished immediately.
   (B)   A burning ban on outdoor burning within 100 feet of a structure may be
issued by the County Fire Marshal’s office in the event of hazardous forest
fire conditions or air pollution episodes.
   (C)   Local conditions that may warrant a burning ban include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Flammable and/or combustible liquid spills or leaks close to a
burning site;
      (2)   A hazardous materials incident where the proximity of the burn site
could cause a possible ignition source or prove hazardous to operations
controlling the incident; and
      (3)   The proximity of adjacent structures or other such hazards.
   (D)   Any burning ban issued by the County Fire Marshal’s office shall be
repealed in the same manner.
   (E)   Illegal fires, nuisance burning, and fires when burning bans are in
effect or all other fires that fall under this subchapter, the state’s Fire
Prevention Code, and any applicable state regulations shall be extinguished
immediately.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2008)
§ 91.46  EXTINGUISHMENT OF FIRES.
   (A)   The County Fire Marshal or authorized representative has the authority
to order the extinguishment or to extinguish any fire that violates this
subchapter.
   (B)   The responding fire department, Fire Chief, or officer in charge has
the authority to order the extinguishment or to extinguish any fire that
violates this subchapter.
   (C)   The County Sheriff has the authority to order the extinguishment of
any fire that violates this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2008)
§ 91.47  OBSTRUCTION OF OPERATIONS.
   No person shall obstruct the extinguishment of any fire that violates this
subchapter when burning bans are in effect or disobey any lawful command of the
County Fire Marshal, or authorized representative, Fire Chief, officer in
charge, or the County Sheriff.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS
§ 91.60  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PYROTECHNICS. Include any and all kinds of fireworks and explosives which
are used for exhibitions or amusement purposes; provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall prevent the manufacture, purchase, sale, transportation,
and use of explosives and signaling flares used in the course of ordinary
business or industry, or shells or cartridges used as ammunition in firearms.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1994)
§ 91.61  POSSESSION OF PYROTECHNICS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to manufacture, sell,
possess, store, or use any pyrotechnic device, except that any person residing
in the county who is over the age of 16 years may purchase, possess, and use
the following pyrotechnic devices:
   (A)    Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a pyrotechnic
mixture that produce a large, snake-like ash when burning;
   (B)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a pyrotechnic
mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
   (C)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to surprise
the user and which include:
      (1)   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item containing
not in excess of 16 milligrams of explosive mixture. A string protruding from
the device is pulled to ignite the device, expelling paper streamers and
producing a small report;
      (2)   A string popper which is a small tube containing not in excess of
16 milligrams of explosive mixture with string protruding from both ends. The
strings are pulled to ignite the friction-sensitive mixture, producing a small
report; and
      (3)   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small, paper wrapped item
containing no more than 16 milligrams of explosive mixture coated on small bits
of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
   (D)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items
must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
   (E)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and sometimes a
whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or explode, do not
spin, are hand-held or ground based, cannot propel themselves through the air,
and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube, or not more
than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62  AGE LIMITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any merchant in the county to sell any
pyrotechnic device to anyone under 16 years of age. Determination of age for
this purpose shall be made in like manner to that for the issuance of a drivers
license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to distribute any pyrotechnic device to anyone
under 16 years of age without parental permission and adult supervision of
their use.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63  EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the sale, use, or possession of explosive
caps designed to be fired in toy pistols, provided that the explosive mixture
of the explosive cap should not exceed twenty-five one hundredths of a gram for
each cap.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1994)
§ 91.64  PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to possess or use any of the pyrotechnic
devises in any school, theatre, shopping mall, church, public building, or
other place of public assembly.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   When it is reasonable and practical to do so, a person believed
to be violating any portion of §§
91.01 to
91.13 may be given an oral order to cease or abate the noise immediately, or as
soon as is reasonable or practical, prior to being charged with a violation.
      (2)   If the order to cease or abate the noise is not complied with, the
person or persons responsible for the violation may be charged with a violation
of §§
91.01 to
91.13.
      (3)   When there is a violation of any provision of §§
91.01 to
91.13, the county may take one or more of the following enforcement actions.
         (a)   Where there is a continuing violation, each day’s continuing
violation is a separate and distinct offense.
         (b)   Violation of any provision of §§
91.01 to
91.13 shall constitute a misdemeanor and upon first violation a warning will be
issued. Upon conviction of subsequent violation, a violator may be punishable
by a fine of up to $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
         (c)   The county may apply for an appropriate equitable remedy from
the General Court of Justice, including, but not limited to, mandatory or
prohibitory injunctions and orders of abatement as allowed by G.S. § 153A-123
(d) and (e). Such civil actions may name as defendants any person or persons
creating, allowing the creation of, or assisting in the creation of any
unlawful noise, including the owner of the premises from which it emanates and
the person having actual control of the premises from which it emanates.
   (C)   (1)   Those alarm users exceeding the maximum number of false alarms
allowed pursuant to the terms of the county alarm system regulations (§§
91.25 to
91.32) shall pay the following sums for the benefit of the county and
municipalities public safety agencies:
         (a)   For alarm response numbers three through five: the sum of $50
each; and
         (b)   For alarm response numbers six or more: the sum of $100 each.
      (2)   The appropriate county personnel are authorized and directed to
institute appropriate civil actions to recover alarm response fees due pursuant
to this resolution with all court costs and service fees to be taxed against
the debtor.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of §§
91.45 to
91.47. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement may be by any one or a combination of the following
methods and the institution of an action under these methods shall not relieve
any party from any other criminal or civil proceeding prescribed for
violations:
         (a)   Warning citation. A warning citation may be issued for first
offense;
         (b)   Criminal offense. A violation of §§
91.45 to
91.47 shall constitute a misdemeanor offense as provided by G.S. § 14-4; and/or
         (c)   Civil penalty. Any act constituting a violation shall subject
the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100. The civil penalty must
be paid within 30 days from the issuance of the citation. Failure to pay the
penalty in the prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in
the nature of debt for the stated penalty together with the cost of the action,
including attorney fees, to be taxed by the court.
      (3)   The criminal or civil proceeding shall be enforced by the County
Fire Marshal, or authorized representative, or the County Sheriff.
   (E)   Any person violating §§
91.60 to
91.63 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine and/or
imprisonment, as set out in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1994; Ord. passed 4-7-2008; Res. passed 2-2-2009; Ord. passed
1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 92:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Skate Park Regulations
   
92.01   Authority
   
92.02   Jurisdiction
   
92.03   Short title
   
92.04   Purpose
   
92.05   Hours, times, and conditions of operation
   
92.06   Park supervision and personal liability
   
92.07   Rules and regulations
   
92.08   Enforcement
   
92.09   Signage
   
92.10   Amendments
   
92.11   Conflict with other laws
 
   
92.99   Penalty
SKATE PARK REGULATIONS
§ 92.01  AUTHORITY.
   The county hereby exercises its authority to enact skate park regulations
pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-123, and 153A-140.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.02  JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be described as any part of the
county where a skate park has been erected that is owned and operated by the
county.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.03  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “The Skate Park Ordinance of Warren
County” and may be cited as “the skate park ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.04  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public safety, health, and
welfare of the citizens of the county through the regulation of skate parks
owned and operated by the county. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the
authority contained in G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-123, and 153A-140.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.05  HOURS, TIMES, AND CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The skate park is open from 8:30 a.m. until dusk. There will be no
trespassing when the park is closed.
   (B)   The park will be closed during wet, snowy, or icy conditions or during
park maintenance periods.
   (C)   The county reserves the right to close the skate park or modify its
hours of operation for any reason at the direction and discretion of the County
Manager and/or the Recreation Director.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  PARK SUPERVISION AND PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   All persons entering the skate park are deemed to have knowledge that
the skate park is a non-supervised activity site designed for skateboarding
only, and that all use of the skate park is at the risk of the user.
   (B)   Skaters must be at least seven years old to use the skate park; ten
years old or younger will need parental/guardian supervision.
   (C)   All persons entering the skate park are deemed to have agreed to
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the county, its officers, employees,
agents, and volunteers for, from, and against any accident, injury, including
death, and/or loss of property or damage thereto sustained as a result of using
the skate park pursuant to general assembly of the state’s Session Law 2003-
334, Senate Bill 774, being 99E-21 - 99E-25.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.07  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations shall apply to the riding of
skateboards at any facility or park owned or operated by the county that has
been designated a skate park.
   (B)   Within the skate park, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Ride, operate, or use a skateboard unless that person is wearing a
helmet designed for skateboarding with a chin strap, elbow pads designed for
skateboarding with plastic elbow caps, and knee pads designed for skateboarding
with plastic knee caps, which equipment shall be in good repair at all times
during use;
      (2)   Ride, operate, or utilize a skateboard unless such equipment is in
good repair at all times during use;
      (3)   Be on or use an individual apparatus within the skate park while
another person is using it;
      (4)   Place or utilize additional obstacles or other materials,
including, but not limited to, ramps or jumps within the skate park;
      (5)   Use the skate park amenities when the surfaces of the amenities are
wet or other conditions exist which would adversely affect the safety of
skateboarders;
      (6)   Use, operate, or possess any source of amplified music including,
but not limited to, stereos, boom boxes, and amplifiers;
      (7)   Enter the skate park unless actively skateboarding in accordance
with these regulations;
      (8)   Use, consume, or have within his or her custody or control, food or
beverages, within the skate park;
      (9)   Use, consume, or have within his or her custody or control,
alcohol, tobacco products, or illegal drugs within the skate park;
      (10)   Enter upon the skate park grounds while under the influence of
alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs;
      (11)   Use or possess glass containers, bottles, or other breakable glass
products within the skate park;
      (12)   Use or engage in profanity, reckless and boisterous behavior
(including, but not limited to, tandem riding, pushing, horseplay, and
bullying), or any activity which could endanger the safety of persons using the
skate park or spectators;
      (13)   Engage in graffiti, tagging, or other defacing of the county
property or the property of others;
      (14)   Ride, operate, or utilize any device other than a skateboard
(prohibited devices include, but are not limited to, bicycles, roller skates,
in-line skates, motor vehicles, motorized skateboards, and motorized skates) in
or on skate park apparatus;
      (15)   No person shall enter or remain in or upon the skate park
premises:
         (a)   While closed, as determined by the Parks and Recreation
Department; or
         (b)   Between the hours of 8:30 p.m. and 8:30 a.m.
      (16)   Use or have within his or her custody or control, board wax,
within the skate park; and
      (17)   No person shall enter in or upon the skate park premises with any
animal.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by the County Recreation Department Director
and/or his or her designee(s), the County Sheriff’s Department, and/or the
police departments of the Towns of Warrenton and Norlina, depending upon the
jurisdictional boundaries of the skate park(s).
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.09  SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The skate park shall be posted with signs at the following locations:
      (1)   At the entrance to the skate park; and
      (2)   On the fences of the skate park, facing the interior of the skate
park, and in such places inside the park as may be deemed appropriate by the
county.
   (B)   The signs shall not be less than two feet by three feet in size and
shall use black letters on a white background. The signs may, but shall not be
required to, summarize the rules and regulations governing the use of the skate
facility. Each sign shall contain, in letters not less than one-half inch in
height, the following language.
WARNING
SKATEBOARDING IS A HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY. USE OF THIS FACILITY MAY
RESULT IN SERIOUS INJURIES OR DEATH. WARREN COUNTY DOES NOT ASSUME
RESPONSIBILITY FOR INJURIES OR DEATH. EACH PERSON ENTERING THE FACILITY ASSUMES
ALL RISK OF INJURY OR DEATH. (GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA, SESSION LAW
2003-334, SENATE BILL 774, BEING 99E-21 - 99E-25) SKATERS MUST BE AT LEAST 7
YEARS OLD TO USE THE SKATE PARK; 10 YEARS OLD OR YOUNGER MUST HAVE PARENTAL/
GUARDIAN SUPERVISION. NO PERSON SHALL ENTER OR REMAIN UPON THE SKATE PARK
PREMISES WHILE CLOSED, OR BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 8:30 P.M. AND 8:30 A.M. ANIMALS
ARE PROHIBITED IN THE SKATE PARK.
IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON TO RIDE, OPERATE, OR UTILIZE A SKATEBOARD UNLESS
THE PERSON IS WEARING A HELMET DESIGNED FOR SKATEBOARD USE WITH A CHIN STRAP,
ELBOW PADS DESIGNED FOR SKATEBOARD USE WITH PLASTIC ELBOW CAPS, AND KNEE PADS
DESIGNED FOR SKATEBOARD USE WITH PLASTIC KNEE CAPS, WHICH EQUIPMENT SHALL BE IN
GOOD REPAIR AT ALL TIMES DURING USE.
IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON TO RIDE, OPERATE, OR UTILIZE ANY DEVICE OTHER
THAN NON-MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS. IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON TO: USE, OPERATE,
OR POSSESS ANY SOURCE OF AMPLIFIED MUSIC; CONSUME, OR HAVE WITHIN HIS/HER
CUSTODY OR CONTROL, ALCOHOL, TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ILLEGAL DRUGS, FOOD, BEVERAGES,
GLASS CONTAINERS, BOTTLES, OR OTHER BREAKABLE GLASS PRODUCTS WITHIN THE SKATE
PARK. ANY PERSON FAILING TO COMPLY WITH THESE REGULATIONS MAY BE SUBJECT TO
EXPULSION FROM THIS FACILITY AND/OR REVOCATION OF ANY PRIVILEGES FOR ITS USE.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.10  AMENDMENTS.
   The County Board of Commissioners may periodically amend the terms of this
subchapter. The governing body shall adopt no amendment to this subchapter
until a public hearing, properly announced, has been held on the proposed
amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.11  CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Wherever the requirements of this subchapter are at variance with the
requirement of any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules, regulations, or
ordinances, the most restrictive or those imposing higher standards shall
govern.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person(s) who is found to be in violation of the provisions of §§
92.01 to
92.11 shall be subject to expulsion from the skate park and/or revocation of
any privileges for its use.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
111.   AMBULANCE FRANCHISES
      
112.   GREASE TRAP ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 110:  PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Hours of operation
   
110.04   Posting of licenses, certificates, and permits
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Coverage
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  PURPOSE.
   To define, regulate, prohibit, or abate acts or conditions detrimental to
the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the county, or to the peace
and dignity of the county, the County Commissioners do enact this chapter
regulating places of amusement and entertainment in accordance with G.S. §
153A-135.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 110.02  APPLICATION.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT include cocktail lounges, nightclubs,
beer halls, and similar establishments as set forth in G.S. § 153A-135.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 110.03  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Places of amusement and entertainment must cease all operations and close
its doors by 2:00 a.m. and clear the parking lot by 2:30 a.m.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  POSTING OF LICENSES, CERTIFICATES, AND PERMITS.
   All state and locally issued licenses, certificates, and/or permits must be
displayed in a prominent place at all times. Hours of operation and departure
times must be internally and externally posted.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  INSPECTION.
   The Sheriff or any member of his or her Department may inspect all places of
amusement and entertainment during hours of operation.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 110.06  COVERAGE.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas in the county outside of the corporate
limits of the municipalities located therein unless adopted by the municipality
pursuant to G.S. § 153A-122.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   If any person or persons shall willfully or intentionally violate this
chapter, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine of $250 or imprisonment for not more than three days, or by both fine and
imprisonment. Each separate violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 111:  AMBULANCE FRANCHISES
Section
   
111.01   Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   Employee certification
   
111.05   Franchise exceptions
   
111.06   Application for franchise
   
111.07   Franchise districts
   
111.08   Type of franchise
   
111.09   Hearing for applicants
   
111.10   Requirements to grant a franchise
   
111.11   Term of franchise
   
111.12   Suspension, revocation, or termination of franchise
   
111.13   Compliance required
   
111.14   Requirements for group ownership
   
111.15   Change in ownership
   
111.16   Approval required to transfer ownership
   
111.17   Removal prohibited
   
111.18   Standards for drivers and attendants
   
111.19   Standards for vehicles and equipment
   
111.20   Standards for communications
   
111.21   Insurance
   
111.22   Records
   
111.23   Rates and charges
   
111.24   Enforcement
   
111.25   Inspection by the county
§ 111.01  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   There is hereby created the County Emergency Medical Services Advisory
Council whose membership shall be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Council shall have the responsibility and duty of advising the
Emergency Services Director on matters relating to the enforcement of this
chapter as specified in §
111.24 and shall develop and recommend for approval by the Board of County
Commissioners such standards of care, policies, procedures, and actions which
will maintain and improve the quality of emergency medical services for the
residents of the county.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle, aircraft, or
vessel that is specially designed, constructed, or modified and equipped and is
intended to be used for, and is maintained or operated for, the transportation
on the streets or highways, waterways, or airways of this state of persons who
are sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
   AMBULANCE ATTENDANT. An individual who has completed a training medical care
program in emergency medical care and first aid approved by the state’s
Department of Human Resources and has been certified as an AMBULANCE ATTENDANT
by the Department of Human Resources, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   AMBULANCE PROVIDER. An individual, firm, corporation, or association who
engages or professes to engage in the business or service of transporting
patients in an ambulance.
   APPROVED. Approved by the state’s Medical Care Commission pursuant to the
latter’s rules and regulations promulgated under G.S. § 143B-165.
   COUNCIL. The County Emergency Medical Services Council.
   COUNTY. The County Board of Commissioners or its designated representative.
   DISPATCHER. A person who is available at all times to receive requests for
emergency services, to dispatch emergency services, and to advise local law
enforcement agencies and emergency medical facilities of any existing or
threatened emergency.
   EMERGENCY and EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICE. The use of an ambulance, its
equipment, and personnel to provide medical care and transportation of a
patient who is in need of immediate medical treatment in order to prevent loss
of life or further aggravation or physiological or psychological illness or
injury.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (EMT). An individual who has completed a
training program in emergency medical care at least equal to the National
Standard Training Program for Emergency Medical Technicians, as defined by the
United States Department of Transportation, and has been certified as an
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN by the Department.
   FIRST RESPONDER. An organization with personnel trained in emergency medical
care that is dispatched to the scene of a medical emergency for the primary
purpose of providing emergency medical assistance to a patient until the
ambulance and additional medical aid arrives.
   FRANCHISE. A permit issued by the county to a person for the operation of an
ambulance service.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person having been issued a franchise by the county for the
operation of an ambulance service.
   LICENSE. Any driver’s license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued
under or granted by the laws of the state.
   NONEMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICES. The operation of an ambulance for any
purpose other than transporting emergency patients.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of an ambulance which is in
motion or which has the engine running.
   OWNER. Any person or entity who owns an ambulance.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless such that the need for some medical assistance might
be anticipated while being transported to or from a medical facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, group of individuals acting together for a common purpose, or
organization of any land, including any governmental agency other than the
United States.
   RESCUE. Situations where the victim cannot escape an area through the normal
exit or under his or her own power.
   SECONDARY AMBULANCE PROVIDER. The system of personnel and equipment meeting
the same criteria as a primary ambulance provider, but not normally dispatched
on first call response.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.03  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person either as owner, agent, or otherwise shall furnish, operate,
conduct, maintain, advertise, or otherwise be engaged in or profess to be
engaged in the business or service of emergency and/or nonemergency
transportation of patients within the county unless the person holds a valid
permit for each ambulance used in such business or service issued by the
state’s Department of Human Resources, Office of Emergency Medical Services,
and has been granted a franchise for the operation of such business or service
by the county pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION.
   No person shall drive an ambulance, attend a patient in one, or permit one
to be operated when transporting a patient within the county unless he or she
holds a currently valid certificate as an ambulance attendant, emergency
medical technician, EMT-Intermediate, or EMT-Paramedic issued by the state’s
Department of Human Resources, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05  FRANCHISE EXCEPTIONS.
   No franchise shall be required for:
   (A)   Any entity rendering assistance to a franchised ambulance service in
the case of a major catastrophe, mutual aid, or emergency with which the
services franchised by the county are insufficient or unable to cope;
   (B)   Any entity operated from a location or headquarters outside of the
county in order to transport patients who are picked up beyond the limits of
the county to facilities located within the county; or
   (C)   Ambulances owned and operated by an agency of the United States
government.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.06  APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   Application for a franchise to operate ambulances in the county shall be
made by the ambulance provider upon such forms as may be prepared or prescribed
by the county and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the ambulance provider and of the owner of the
ambulance(s);
   (B)   The trade or other fictitious names, if any, under which the applicant
does business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate
stating such name or articles of incorporation stating such name;
   (C)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients;
   (D)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided,
including the location of the place or places from which it is intended to
operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain assistance, and
how the vehicles will be dispatched. An audited financial statement of the
applicant as the same pertains to the operations in the county, said financial
statement to be in such form and in such detail as may be required by the
county;
   (E)   A description of the applicant’s capability to provide 24-hour
coverage, seven days per week for the district covered by the franchise applied
for, and an accurate estimate of the minimum and maximum times for a response
to calls within such district; and
   (F)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide ambulance services
in the county in accordance with the requirements of state laws and the
provisions of this regulation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.07  FRANCHISE DISTRICTS.
   Prior to accepting applications for the operation of an ambulance service,
the Board of Commissioners may designate specific service areas as franchise
districts. Said districts will be established using criteria that includes
geographic size, road access, the location of existing medical transportation
services, population, and response time. The county shall have the authority to
redistrict or rearrange existing districts at any time at its discretion.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.08  TYPE OF FRANCHISE.
   An applicant may apply for a franchise to operate either emergency
transportation service or nonemergency transportation service or both. If both
types of service are to be provided, separate applications must be filed for
each type.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.09  HEARING FOR APPLICANTS.
   Upon receipt of an application for a franchise, the county shall schedule a
time and place for hearing the applicant. Within 30 days after hearing, the
county shall cause such investigation as it may deem necessary to be made of
the applicant and his or her proposed operations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.10  REQUIREMENTS TO GRANT A FRANCHISE.
   A franchise may be granted if the county finds that:
   (A)   The applicant shows a reasonable effort to meet state standards and
standards outlined in the franchise ordinance;
   (B)   The proposed service will fit within the existing service so as not to
adversely affect the level of service or operations of other franchisees to
render service; and
   (C)   A need exists for the proposed service in order to improve the level
of ambulance services available to residents of the county and that this is a
reasonable and cost effective manner of meeting the need.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.11  TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   The county may issue a franchise hereunder to an ambulance provider, to be
valid for a term to be determined by the county, provided that either party, as
its option, may terminate the franchise upon 60 days prior written notice to
the other party. After a notice of service termination is given, the ambulance
provider may reapply for a franchise if continued service is desired.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.12  SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a franchise granted
hereunder, such franchised ambulance service immediately shall cease
operations. Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a driver’s license
or attendant’s certificate or emergency medical technician certificate, such
persons shall cease to drive an ambulance or provide medical care in
conjunction with an ambulance service, or attend an ambulance. The franchisee
shall not permit such an individual to drive an ambulance or provide medical
care in conjunction with the ambulance service.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.13  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Each franchised ambulance service shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter, the franchise granted hereunder, and all
applicable state and local laws relating to health, sanitation, safety,
equipment, and ambulance design and all other laws and ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.14  REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUP OWNERSHIP.
   Prior approval of the county shall be required where ownership or control of
more than 10% of the right of control of franchisee is acquired by a person or
group of persons acting in concert, none of whom own or control 10% or more of
such right of control, singularly or collectively, at the date of the
franchise. By its acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
agrees that any such acquisition occurring without prior approval of the county
shall constitute a violation of the franchise by the franchisee and shall be
cause for termination at the option of the county.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.15  CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP.
   Any change of ownership of a franchised ambulance service without the
approval of the county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new
application, a new franchise, and conformance with all the requirements of this
chapter as upon original franchising.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.16  APPROVAL REQUIRED TO TRANSFER OWNERSHIP.
   No franchise may be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise transferred
without the approval of the county; and a finding of conformance with all
requirements of this chapter as upon original franchising. Each franchised
ambulance service, its equipment, and the premises designated in the
application and all records relating to its maintenance and operation, as such,
shall be open to inspection by the state, the county, or their designated
representatives.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17  REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   A franchise may not be defaced, removed, or obliterated.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18  STANDARDS FOR DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS.
   Standards for drivers and attendants as developed by the state’s Medical
Care Commission as requirements for certification of ambulance attendants and
emergency medical technicians, pursuant to G.S. Ch. 131E-158, Art. 7, and G.S.
Ch. 143, Art. 56, shall be applied and the same are incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.19  STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Vehicle and equipment standards as developed by the state’s Medical Care
Commission, pursuant to G.S. Ch. 131E-157, Art. 7, Ch. 130A, and Ch. 143, Art.
56, shall be applied and the same are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.20  STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Each ambulance vehicle shall be equipped with an operational two-way
radio capable of establishing good quality voice communications from within the
geographic confines of the county to each hospital(s) emergency department in
the area served by the ambulance. Each ambulance vehicle shall be equipped with
two-way radio communications capabilities compatibility with all hospital
emergency departments to which transportation of patients is made on a regular
or routine basis anywhere within the state. Each ambulance vehicle shall be
equipped with an operational two-way radio capable of establishing good quality
voice communications from within the geographic confines of the county to
ambulance dispatching agency within the county.
   (B)   Each ambulance provider shall maintain current authorizations or
Federal Communication Commission licenses for all frequencies and radio
transmitters operated by that provider. Copies of all authorizations and
licenses shall be on display and available for inspection per Federal
Communication Commission’s rules and regulations.
   (C)   Each base of operations must have at least one open telephone line.
Telephone numbers must be registered with each law enforcement agency and
communications center in the county.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.21  INSURANCE.
   No ambulance franchise shall be issued under this chapter, nor shall such
franchise be valid after issuance, nor shall any ambulance be operated in the
county unless the franchisee has at all times in force and effect insurance
coverage, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state,
for each and every ambulance owned and/or operated by or for the ambulance
service providing for the payment of damages:
   (A)   In the sum of $500,000 for injury to or death of individuals in
accidents resulting from any cause for which the owner of said vehicle would be
liable on account of liability imposed on him or her by law, regardless of
whether the ambulance was being driven by the owner or his or her agency; and
   (B)   In the sum of $50,000 for the loss of or damage to the property of
another, including personal property, under like circumstances, in sums as may
be required by the state or as approved by the county.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.22  RECORDS.
   Each franchisee shall maintain the following records.
   (A)   Record of dispatch. Shall show time call was received, time ambulance
dispatched, time arrived on scene, time arrived at destination, time in
service, and time returned to base.
   (B)   Trip record. Shall state all information required in division (A)
above in addition to information on a form approved by the county. The trip
record shall be so designed as to provide the patient with a copy thereof
containing all required information. A copy of the trip record may serve as a
receipt for any charges paid.
   (C)   Daily report log. Shall be maintained for the purpose of identifying
more than one person transported in any one day.
   (D)   Daily driver and attendant checklist and inspection report. Shall list
contents and description of operations for each vehicle, signed by the
individual verifying vehicle operations and equipment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.23  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Each franchisee shall submit a schedule of rates to the county for
approval and shall not charge more nor less than the approved rates without
specific approval by the county.
   (B)   No ambulance service shall attempt to collect rates on emergency calls
until the patient has reached the point of destination, has received medical
attention, and is in a condition deemed by the physician fit to consult with
the ambulance service, but such service may attempt to collect rates with
family or guardian of the patient once the patient is in the process of
receiving medical attention.
   (C)   On nonemergency calls, or calls where a person requires transportation
to a nonemergency facility, attempts to collect payments can be made before the
ambulance begins its trip.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.24  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Department of Emergency Medical Services shall be the
enforcing agency for the regulations contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Such office will:
      (1)   Receive all franchise proposals from potential providers;
      (2)   Study each proposal for conformance to this chapter;
      (3)   With the approval of the Council, recommend to the Board of
Commissioners the award of the franchise(s) to the applicants submitting the
best proposal(s);
      (4)   Inspect the premises, vehicles, equipment, and personnel of
franchisees to assure compliance to this chapter and perform any other
inspections that may be required;
      (5)   With the approval of the Council, recommend to the Board of
Commissioners the temporary or permanent suspension of a franchise in the event
of noncompliance with the franchise terms of this chapter. Recommend the
imposition of misdemeanor or civil penalties as provided therein;
      (6)   Ensure, by cooperative agreement with other ambulance services, the
continued service in a district where an ambulance service franchise has been
suspended;
      (7)   Receive monthly reports from ambulance services and consolidate the
same into a quarterly summary for review by the Council and the county;
      (8)   Receive complaints from the public, other enforcing agencies, and
ambulance services regarding franchise infractions. Review the complaint with
the Council. Obtain corrective action with the approval of the Council;
      (9)   With the approval of the Council, recommend improvements to the
county which will ensure better medical transportation;
      (10)   Maintain all records required by this chapter and other applicable
county regulations;
      (11)   Perform such of the above functions as may be requested by any
municipality within the county; and
      (12)   Serve as staff to the County Emergency Medical Services Council on
all matters that pertain to the Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.25  INSPECTION BY THE COUNTY.
   The county may inspect a franchisee’s records, premises, and equipment at
any time in order to ensure compliance with this chapter and any franchise
granted hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 112:  GREASE TRAP ORDINANCE
Section
   
112.01   Preventing discharges to the sewer system
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Grease-handling facilities to be approved
   
112.04   Establishments subject to inspection
   
112.05   Liability for sewer expenses
   
112.06   Regular maintenance required
   
112.07   Analysis of discharges
   
112.08   Design of interceptors
   
112.09   Procedures for handling harmful substances
   
112.10   Waste minimization
   
112.11   Construction standards for new facilities
   
112.12   Construction standards for existing facilities
   
112.13   Construction standards for new establishments in existing buildings
§ 112.01  PREVENTING DISCHARGES TO THE SEWER SYSTEM.
   Food service establishments shall provide means of preventing grease and oil
discharges to the sewerage system. Where a grease and oil interceptor currently
exists or is required by the county, it shall be maintained for continuous,
satisfactory, and effective operation by the owner, leaseholder, or operator at
his or her expense. Grease and oil interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the county and shall be located as to be readily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A facility discharging kitchen or food
preparation wastewaters such as restaurants, motel, hotels, cafeterias,
delicatessen, meat cutting preparation, bakeries, hospitals, schools, bars, or
any other facility which in the county’s discretion would require a grease trap
installation by virtue of its operation.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR/GREASE TRAP. A device utilized to effect the separation
of grease and oils in wastewater effluent from a food service establishment.
Such TRAPS or INTERCEPTORS may be of the “outdoor” or underground type normally
of a 1,000 gallon capacity or more, or the “under-the-counter” package units
which are typically less than 100 gallon capacity. For the purpose of this
definition, the words TRAP and INTERCEPTOR are used interchangeably.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the wastewater treatment
processes or operations, or acts or discharges which may cause damage to any
portion of the sewerage system or which contribute to a violation of any
requirement of a POTWs (publicly owned treatment works) NPDES (national
pollutant discharge elimination system) permit. The term includes interference
with sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with state or federal
criteria, guidelines, or regulations or any state or federal sludge management
plan applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the sewerage
system.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.03  GREASE-HANDLING FACILITIES TO BE APPROVED.
   All food service establishments shall have grease-handling facilities
approved by the county. Establishments whose grease-handling facilities of
methods are not adequately maintained to prevent floatable oils, fat, or grease
from entering the sewerage system shall be notified in writing of any non-
compliance and required to provide a schedule whereby corrections will be
accomplished.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.04  ESTABLISHMENTS SUBJECT TO INSPECTION.
   (A)   All food service establishments’ grease-handling facilities shall be
subject to review, evaluation, and inspection by the county representative
during normal working hours. Results of inspections will be made available to
facility owner, lease-holder, or operator. The county may lend assistance and
make recommendations for correction and improvement.
   (B)   Food service establishment receiving two consecutive unsatisfactory
evaluations or inspections may be subject to penalties or other corrective
actions as provided from the sewer use ordinance.
   (C)   Food service establishments who continue to violate the county grease
standards or requirements may be considered grounds for discontinuance of sewer
service.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.05  LIABILITY FOR SEWER EXPENSES.
   Food service establishments whose operations cause or allow excessive grease
to discharge or accumulate in the county collection system may be liable to the
county for costs related to the county service calls for line blockages, line
cleanings, line and pump repairs, and the like, including all labor, materials,
and equipment. Failure to pay all service-related charge may also be grounds
for water/sewer service discontinuance.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.06  REGULAR MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   Regularly scheduled maintenance of grease-handling facilities is required to
ensure adequate operation. In the maintaining of these grease interceptors, the
owner, lease-holder, or operator shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal of grease by appropriate means and shall maintain on-site records
of dates and means of disposal. Records shall be maintained for a period of
three years.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.07  ANALYSIS OF DISCHARGES.
   Any food service establishment whose effluent discharge to the sewerage
system is determined by the county to cause interference in the conveyance or
operation of the sewerage system may be required to sample its grease trap
discharge and have it analyzed for oil and grease at the expense of the owner,
lease-holder, or operator. Results of such analyses shall be reported to the
county.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.08  DESIGN OF INTERCEPTORS.
   All grease traps/interceptors shall be designed and installed to allow for
complete access for inspection and maintenance of the inner chamber(s) and
viewing and sampling of effluent wastewater discharged to the sewer.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.09  PROCEDURES FOR HANDLING HARMFUL SUBSTANCES.
   Food service establishments shall adopt procedures for handling sources of
floatable oils, fat, or grease originating within their facility. A notice
shall be permanently posted at a prominent place in the facility advising
employees of the procedures to be followed.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.10  WASTE MINIMIZATION.
   Food service establishments shall develop and implement a waste minimization
plan pertaining to the disposal of grease, oils, and food particles. The county
may render advice or make suggestions regarding the minimization of waste.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.11  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   All new food service establishments shall be required to install a
grease interceptor, approved by the county. Grease interceptors shall be
adequately sized, with no interceptor less than 1,000 gallons total capacity
unless otherwise approved by the county.
   (B)   No new food service establishments will be allowed to initiate
operations until grease-handling facilities are installed and approved by the
county.
   (C)   All grease interceptors, whether singular or two tanks in series, must
have each chamber directly accessible from the surface to provide means for
servicing and maintaining the interceptor in working and operating condition.
   (D)   A basket, screen, or other intercepting device shall prevent passage
into the drainage system of solids one-half inch or larger in size. The basket
or device shall be removable for cleaning purposes.
   (E)   Where food-waste grinders are installed, the waste from those units
shall discharge directly into the building drainage system without passing
through a grease interceptor. All other fixtures and drains receiving kitchen
or food preparation wastewaters shall pass through a grease interceptor.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.12  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR EXISTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All existing food service establishments shall have grease-handling
facilities, approved by the county. Food service establishments without any
grease-handling facilities will be given a compliance deadline not to exceed
six months from date of notification to have approved and installed grease-
handling equipment in compliance with this standard. Failure to do so will be
considered a violation of the county sewer use ordinance and may subject the
facility to penalties and corrective actions. Said installations shall meet the
same requirements for design as for new facilities. (See §
112.11).
   (B)   In the event an existing food service establishment’s grease-handling
facilities are either under-designed or substandard in accordance with this
policy, the owner(s) will be notified in writing of the deficiencies and
requirements improvements, and given a compliance deadline not to exceed six
months to conform with the requirements of this grease standard.
   (C)   For cases in which “outdoor” type grease interceptors are infeasible
to install, existing food service establishments will be required to install
adequate and approved “under-the-counter” grease traps for use on individual
fixtures including dishwashers, sinks, and other potentially grease-containing
drains.
   (D)   Sizing of “under-the-counter” grease trap units will be in accordance
with recommended ratings for commercial grease traps set forth in this chapter.
The grease retention capacity rating in pounds shall be at least two times the
GPM flow rate of the type fixture which it serves. Flow control fittings must
be provided to the inlet side of a “under-the-counter” units to prevent
overloading of the grease trap and to allow for proper operation.
   (E)   County approval of flow control devices and grease trap design must be
obtained prior to installation.
   (F)   The location of “under-the-counter” units must be near the source of
the wastewater as physically possible.
   (G)   Wastewater from garbage grinders should not be discharged to grease
traps/interceptors.
   (H)   In maintaining grease traps/interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the county. (See §
112.06).
   (I)   The exclusive use of enzymes, grease solvents, emulsifiers, and the
like is not considered acceptable grease trap maintenance practice.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 112.13  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR NEW ESTABLISHMENTS IN EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Where practical, new food service establishments locating in existing
buildings will be required to comply with the grease trap standards applicable
to new facilities. (See §
112.11).
   (B)   Where physically impossible to install “outdoor” units, “under-the-
counter” units may be allowed as with existing food service establishments
provided prior approval of unit type, size, location, and the like is approved
by the county. (See §
112.11(B)).
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
151.   ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
      
152.   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES PARKS
      
153.   ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
154.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
155.   VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
      
156.   SOLAR FARMS
      
157.   ZONING
      158.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization and conflict with other laws
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Purpose
   
150.04   Objectives
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
150.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
150.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
150.09   Compliance
   
150.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.11   Interpretation
   
150.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
150.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
150.26   Plans and application requirements
   
150.27   Floodplain development permit data requirements
   
150.28   Certification requirements
   
150.29   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
150.30   Corrective procedures
   
150.31   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.40   General standards
   
150.41   Specific standards
   
150.42   Residential construction
   
150.43   Non-residential construction
   
150.44   Manufactured homes
   
150.45   Elevated buildings
   
150.46   Additions and improvements
   
150.47   Recreational vehicles
   
150.48   Temporary structures
   
150.49   Accessory structures
Additional Regulations
   
150.60   Subdivisions, manufactured home parks and major developments
   
150.61   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
150.62   Standards for floodplains with BFE but without established floodways
or non-encroachment areas
   
150.63   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
150.64   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
150.65   Rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage prevention
ordinance
   
150.66   Effect on outstanding building permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in G.S. Ch. 143, Art.
21, Part 6 and Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Part 121, delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Wherever the requirements
of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive or
those imposing higher standards shall govern. The standards and guidelines of
G.S. Ch. 160D take priority. Therefore, the Warren County Board of
Commissioners does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)    The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of Warren County are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.03  PURPOSE.
    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development which
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.04  OBJECTIVES.
    The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To insure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.05  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure which is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.  Garages, carports and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.  Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet.  These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled to or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the Flood
Insurance Study of the water surface elevations of the base flood.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6).
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is pre-
FIRM.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated.  This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by
FEMA.  The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power, which control development
in flood-prone areas.  This term describes federal, state or local regulations
in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   FREEBOARD. The additional amount of height added to the base flood elevation
(BFE) to account for uncertainties in the determination of flood elevations.
See also REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair.  The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Ch. 130A,  Art. 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places;
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, patio
slab, or deck support immediately next to the building after completion of the
building. For Zone A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab or grade of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement).  An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR provided
that such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear.  MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988 or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced.  Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of this chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development, which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development, which started on or after
January 1, 1975, or on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map for the area, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before January 1,
1975, or before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for
the area, whichever is later.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance of such building.  Within special flood hazard areas
designated as zones A1-A30, AE, A, A99, AO, or AH, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the
top of the lowest floor.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation to which all structures
and other development located within the special flood hazard areas must be
elevated or floodproofed, if non-residential.  Within areas where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus
two feet of freeboard.  In areas where no BFE has been established, all
structures and other development must be elevated or floodproofed, if non-
residential, to two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or community floodplain management regulations or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance.  Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RETROFITTING. Measures, such as floodproofing, elevation, construction of
small levees, and other modifications, taken on an existing building or its
yard to protect it from flood damage.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Property used for the storage, collection, and/or recycling of
any type of equipment whatsoever, whether industrial or noncommercial, and
including but not limited to vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
150.07.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including
a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings,
installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.  See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.  SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one year period whereby the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement.  This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.  The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.  A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
150.25 through
150.31,
150.40 through
150.49 and
150.60 through
150.64 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. 
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJ) if applicable, of
Warren County and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose
governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)    The special flood hazard areas are those identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or produced under the Cooperating Technical
State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in its Flood
Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying
flood maps such as the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRM) and/or the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map(s) (FBFM), for Warren County dated August 11, 1978, which
with accompanying supporting data, and any revision thereto, including Letters
of Map Amendment or Revision, are adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.  The special flood hazard areas also include those
defined through standard engineering analysis for private developments or by
governmental agencies, but which have not yet been incorporated in the FIRM. 
This includes, but is not limited to, detailed flood data:
      (1)   Generated as a requirement of § 150.29;
      (2)   Preliminary FIRMs where more stringent than the effective FIRM; or
      (3)   Post-Disaster Flood Recovery Maps.
   (B)   Municipal.  In addition, upon annexation to the Town of Norlina, the
Town of Warrenton, and the Town of Macon, or inclusion in the extra-territorial
jurisdiction (ETJ), the special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and/or produced under the Cooperating
Technical State agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA as
stated above for the unincorporated areas of Warren County, with accompanying
maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
    A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
150.07.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.09  COMPLIANCE.
    No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)   Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.  However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.11  INTERPRETATION.
    In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
    The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration.  Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.  Actual
flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.  This chapter
does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.  This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Warren County or by any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Warren County Zoning Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.26  PLANS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities proposed to be located within flood-prone areas.
   (B)   The following items/information shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit.
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, the location of
utility systems, proposed grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage
areas, drainage facilities, and other proposed development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in § 150.07 or a statement that the
entire lot is within the special flood hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
150.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
150.07,
150.29,
150.46,
150.60 or
150.61;
         (7)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate and backup plans from
a registered professional engineer or architect certifying that the non-
residential floodproofed development will meet the floodproofing criteria in §§
150.43 and
150.60;
      (4)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met. 
These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation on
columns/piers);
         (b)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used in floodplains,
details of sufficient openings to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters in accordance with §
150.45;
         (c)   Usage details of any enclosed space below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (5)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (6)   Copy of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (i.e., wetlands, erosion and
sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, etc.);
      (7)   If floodplain development permit is issued for placement of
recreational vehicles and/or temporary structures, documentation to ensure §§
150.47 and
150.48 are met;
      (8)   If a watercourse is proposed to be altered and/or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of
the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.27  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information shall be provided at a minimum on the floodplain
development permit to ensure compliance with this Code:
   (A)   A description of the development to be permitted under the floodplain
development permit issuance;
   (B)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
150.07;
   (C)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the reference
level and all attendant utilities;
   (D)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the protection
of all public utilities;
   (E)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
   (F)   State that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway or non-
encroachment area of any watercourse, if applicable;
   (G)   If in an A, AO, AE or A1-30 Zone, specify the minimum foundation
opening requirements;
   (H)   State limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable)  (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.28  CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
completed.  Within 21 calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, or floodproofing, by whatever construction means, whichever is
applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, or floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable in relation to mean
sea level.  Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same.  When floodproofing is utilized, said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or
architect and certified by same.  Any work done within the 21 day calendar
period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit
holder's risk.  The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted.  Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed.  Failure to submit the certification or failure to make said
corrections required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (B)   A Final As-Built Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or
Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance.  It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of final as-built construction of the elevation or floodproofed
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities.  Said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.  When
floodproofing is utilized, said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same.  The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted.  Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance.  In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction.  Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make said corrections required shall be cause to withhold the
issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy. The use of the FEMA
elevation certificates is mandatory for CRS communities.
   (C)   If a manufactured home is placed within an A, AO, AE, or A1-30 Zone
and the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineered
foundation certification is required per §
150.44.
   (D)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of the
extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an engineering report on the
effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the
watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit.
   (E)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located within
A, AO, AE or A1-30 Zones, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (A) and (B) above:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
150.47(A);
      (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
150.48; and
      (3)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting requirements
of §
150.49.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.29  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development with in flood-prone areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (i.e.,
wetlands, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, etc.)
may be required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require
that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments within floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
150.62 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) of all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
150.28;
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with §
150.28;
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities, in accordance with §
150.28;
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
150.08 and
150.43;
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation.  The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
150.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data and/or non-encroachment area data available from
a federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
150.60(D), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
150.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data, and/or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA.  A copy of the Letter of Map Amendment issued from FEMA will be
maintained by the Floodplain Administrator in the floodplain development permit
file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress.  As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit.  In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required.  Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped.  The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work.  The stop-work order shall state the specific work
to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s)
under which the work may be resumed.  Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revocation of floodplain development permits as required.  The
Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation.  Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure
to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements
or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.  Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community.  The Floodplain Administrator and
each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of § 150.30.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.30  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected.  When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation.  The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
their property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.  If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the flood damage
prevention ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue such
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than 60
days.  Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger
to life or other property, he may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within 30 days
following issuance of the final order.  In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final.  The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order. The provisions of G.S. §§ 160D-405 and 160D-406 apply to any
administrative determination.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Warren County Board of Adjustment as established by Warren County,
hereinafter referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation.  Such notification shall
be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
    In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.  These include but are not limited to HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (i.e., washers, dryers, refrigerator,
etc.), hot water heaters, electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Non-conforming structures or other development may not be enlarged,
replaced, or rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction is accomplished
in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.  Provided, however, nothing
in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or replacement of a
building or structure existing on the effective date of this chapter and
located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment area, or
stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback is not increased and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas.  A structure or tank for chemical or
fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water
treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special
flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either elevated or
floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation and
certified according to §
150.28.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
    In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
150.07 or
150.29, the following provisions are required.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.42  RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
    New construction or substantial improvement of any residential structure
(including manufactured homes) shall have the reference level, including
basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.43  NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial,
or other non-residential structure shall have the reference level, including
basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation. 
Structures located in A, AO, AE and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to the
regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all
areas of the structure below the required flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.  A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are
satisfied.  Such certification shall be provided to the official as set forth
in §
150.28.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.44  MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)    New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement in
accordance with the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile
Homes, 1995 Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of
Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation. 
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength. 
When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineering
certification is required. 
   (C)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with §
150.45.
   (D)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local emergency
management coordinator.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.45  ELEVATED BUILDINGS.
    New construction or substantial improvements of elevated buildings that
include fully enclosed areas that are below the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall not be designed to be used for human habitation, but shall be
designed to be used only for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited
storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, be
constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below the regulatory flood
protection level in A, AO, AE, and A1-30 Zones and meet the following design
criteria:
   (A)   Measures for complying with this requirement shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters.  To meet this requirement, the
foundation must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet the following minimum design criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
      (2)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square inch
for each square foot of each enclosed area subject to flooding;
      (3)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must have
openings on exterior walls to allow floodwater to directly enter;
      (4)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade; and
      (5)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other opening
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (6)   Foundation enclosures.
         (a)   Vinyl or sheet metal skirting is not considered an enclosure for
regulatory and flood insurance rating purposes. Therefore, such skirting does
not require hydrostatic openings as outlined above.
         (b)   Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status,
is considered an enclosure and requires hydrostatic openings as outlined above
to comply with this chapter.
   (B)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).  The interior portion of such
enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms, except
to enclose storage areas.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.46  ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)    Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures, when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure, are:
      (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure;
      (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (B)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
   (C)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures, when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure, are:
      (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction;
      (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (D)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.47  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
    Recreation vehicles placed on sites within a special flood hazard area
shall either:
   (A)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed
and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
   (B)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring
and elevation requirements of §§
150.29 through
150.28,
150.40 and
150.44.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.48  TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for a temporary
structure, the following requirements must be met:
   (A)   Applicants must submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the
removal of such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane or flash flood warning
notification.  The plan must include the following information:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to insure the availability of removal equipment when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (B)   The above information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.49  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)    When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) are to be
placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
150.40;
      (5)   All service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be installed in accordance with §
150.40; and
      (6)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with §
150.45(A).
   (B)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet does
not require an elevation or floodproofing certificate.  Elevation or
floodproofing certifications are required for all other accessory structures in
accordance with §
150.28.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.60  SUBDIVISIONS, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS.
   All subdivision, manufactured home park and major development proposals
located within special flood hazard areas shall:
   (A)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (C)   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
and
   (D)   Have base flood elevation (BFE) data provided if development is
greater than the lesser of five  acres or 50 lots/manufactured home sites. 
Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference per §
150.07 to be utilized in implementing this Code.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.61  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas established in §
150.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided, the
following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   If §
150.60 is satisfied and base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations established in
accordance with §
150.29.  When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source, the reference level, including basement, shall be
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.62  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS
OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special
flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS, no encroachments, including fill,
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development, shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.63  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
150.07 are areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas.  The
floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles.  The following provisions shall apply to all development
within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood.  Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
   (B)   If §
150.63 is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
150.44; and
      (2)   The non-encroachment standards of §
150.63 are met.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.64  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
150.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.  These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate.  The following provisions shall apply
within such areas:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the depth number
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade.  If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including
basement, shall be elevated at least to the regulatory flood protection
elevation as defined for the special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been
established.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall have the option to, in lieu of elevation, be completely
floodproofed together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities to or
above that level so that any space below that level is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.  Certification is required as per §§
150.28 and
150.43.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.65  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted April 6, 1987, as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. 
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending.  All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of Warren County enacted on April 6, 1987, as amended, which are not re-enacted
herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.66  EFFECT ON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to passage of this
chapter or any revision thereto, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
    Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.  Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.  Nothing
herein contained shall prevent Warren County from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
CHAPTER 151:  ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Enactment and authority
   
151.003   Short title
   
151.004   Territorial jurisdiction
   
151.005   Adoption by incorporated areas
   
151.006   Definitions
Administration
   
151.020   Ordinance Administrator responsibilities
   
151.021   Applications and petitions
   
151.022   Building permits
   
151.023   Fees
   
151.024   Reason for denial
   
151.025   Addressing map
   
151.026   Appeals and requests for variance
Numbering System
   
151.040   Uniformity of the system
   
151.041   Road naming and numbering criteria
   
151.042   Numbering method
   
151.043   Loop roads, dead end roads, and cul-de-sacs
   
151.044   Numbering organization
Addressing System
   
151.055   Method of assigning a number
   
151.056   Corner lots
   
151.057   Road name of address
   
151.058   Requirements for road naming and numbering
   
151.059   Duplex and multi-family dwellings
   
151.060   Assigning of unit designators
   
151.061   Mobile homes
   
151.062   Recreational or resort communities
Posting Requirements for Structures
   
151.075   Time constraints
   
151.076   Number specification
   
151.077   Posting locations
   
151.078   Maintenance of structure numbers
   
151.079   Variances
Road Naming
   
151.090   Approval of private road names
   
151.091   Naming private roads
   
151.092   New road names
   
151.093   Desirable names
   
151.094   Deceptively similar or undesirable names
   
151.095   Suffixes and prefixes
   
151.096   Road segments
   
151.097   Offset intersections and split routes
   
151.098   Impasses
   
151.099   Road name signs and standards
   
151.100   Petition to change road name
   
151.101   Sign replacement fees
Amendments
   
151.115   General
   
151.116   Public notification requirements
   
151.117   Letter of notification
   
151.118   Protests
   
151.119   Application for amendment
Violations and Enforcement
   
151.130   Improper address display
   
151.131   Improper road name designations
   
151.132   Improper road signs
   
151.133   Damage to road signs
   
151.134   Notification of violation
   
151.135   Legal prosecution
   
151.136   Conflict with other laws
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:Schedule of fees
   
Appendix B:North Carolina Department of Corrections signs and post standards
and costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  PURPOSE.
   (A)    The purpose of this chapter is to protect the safety and welfare of
the general public through the orderly assignment of structure addresses to
facilitate the location of and access to individual dwellings and businesses by
emergency response personnel.
   (B)   This chapter shall establish the standards and procedures for
implementing and maintaining a system to address and name all existing roads
and structures and all newly constructed properties and roads.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.002  ENACTMENT AND AUTHORITY.
    There is hereby established and adopted a detailed, permanent, uniform
addressing system, pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 153A-239.1, which
empowers the county to name roads.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.003  SHORT TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known as the “Addressing and Road Naming Ordinance of
Warren County, North Carolina”, and may be referred to as the “addressing
ordinance”. The map referred to is identified by the title “Official Road Name
and Structure Numbering Map, Warren County, North Carolina,” and may be known
as the “addressing map”.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.004  TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
    The road naming and addressing policies set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable for all of the unincorporated areas of the county and incorporated
areas wherein the governing body has adopted a resolution adopting this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.005  ADOPTION BY INCORPORATED AREAS.
    Any incorporated municipality within the county that is being provided
radio communications services by the county's 911 public service answering
point (Sheriff's Office), is requested to adopt a resolution permitting this
chapter to be applicable within said municipality.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.006  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows or as indicated by United States Postal Regulations
and the National Emergency Number Association definitions. Except as defined
herein, all words and terms used in this chapter shall have their customary
dictionary definition.
   AVENUE (AVE.). A road that serves as a major traffic artery.
   BOULEVARD (BLVD.). An unusually wide street typically in residential areas,
often with central, dividing median.
   CIRCLE (CIR.). A road that begins and then returns to itself.
   COURT (CT.). A dead end street often ending as a cul-de-sac.
   DRIVE (DR.). A curving secondary road.
   E-911. An abbreviation for “Enhanced 911", which is an emergency telephone
system that includes sophisticated network switching and database information
components capable of providing information to emergency service dispatchers
such as automatic name and telephone number identification.
   E-911 DATABASE SUPERVISOR. The Warren County GIS Technician responsible for
the daily maintenance of addressing and road name changes.  This includes close
coordination with the telephone company to ensure listings in the telephone
database and the county's database are the same.
   HIGHWAY (HWY.). A designated state or federal highway.
   INTERSTATE (I-85). A thoroughfare of the highest order and federally
designated as an interstate.
   LANE (LN.). A short road that branches off of another road and ends or
connects to another secondary road.
   LOOP (LP.). A short road that starts and ends on the same street or road.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The Warren County Planning and Zoning Administrator
or such other county official as may be designated by the County Commissioners
to administer this chapter.
   PARKWAY (PKWY.). A special scenic route or park drive.
   PLACE (PL.). A cul-de-sac or permanent dead end road.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road which is not maintained by a governmental entity or
agency through the use of public funds.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is maintained by a governmental entity or agency
through the use of public funds.
   RADIO COMMUNICATION SERVICES. Includes any radio communications,
transmissions, dispatching or future Enhanced 911 communications that may
involve police, emergency, fire, or rescue operations, but are not limited to
these aforesaid operations.
   ROAD (RD.). A well-traveled secondary road often connecting with a U.S. or
state primary highway.
   STREET (ST.). A major road that runs generally in a north/south direction.
   STREET ADDRESS. A unique identifier for each addressable structure within
the county. The minimum adequate street address shall be defined as the
assigned structure number and the officially adopted road name. Where required
by this chapter, the street address shall also include the assigned unit
designator.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, whether residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional in nature and use (including mobile homes and mobile home hook-
ups); or any public telephone, bridge, overpass, railroad crossing,
communications tower, or other significant landmark.
   STRUCTURE NUMBER. The numerical portion of the street address, as assigned
by the Ordinance Administrator or his or her designee, in accordance with the
Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map of Warren County.
   THOROUGHFARE. A general all-inclusive term for: roads (public or private),
road, street, drive, cart way, easement, right-of-way, or any other word or
words that means a way of access.
   TRAIL (TRL). A local road that serves as a connector for larger roads.
   UNIT DESIGNATOR. The  portion  of  the  street  address  used  to
distinguish  individual  units  within the same structure.
   WAY. A minor private road that begins and ends on the same road.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020  ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
    The Ordinance Administrator shall be the Planning and Zoning Administrator
or his or her designee appointed by the Board of Commissioners. Duties and
responsibilities shall be as defined by the Board.  The E-911 Database
Supervisor shall be the GIS Technician and located in the Office of the
Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department and be responsible for the
daily maintenance of the addressing database.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.021  APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS.
   See §
151.119.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.022  BUILDING PERMITS.
    The following requirements become effective the date that the addressing
map is accepted from the contractor by the county:
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued until an official address number
has been assigned. The recorded plat of any subdivision must show the address
for each lot created or recorded.
   (B)   Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any structure or
building erected or repaired shall be withheld until permanent and proper
structure numbers have been posted in accordance with the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.023  FEES.
    Fees and charges provided in this chapter for the filing of petitions,
applications, the cost of hearings, variances and maps shall be paid by the
applicant under this chapter at the time of application.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.024  REASON FOR DENIAL.
    If approval is denied, the Ordinance Administrator or his or her designee
shall provide a written explanation of reasons for non-approval of the
petition, variance, application, and the like.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.025  ADDRESSING MAP.
    The addressing map shall be kept on file in the office of the E-911
Database Supervisor. This map may be maintained and updated in data processing
storage systems.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.026  APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR VARIANCE.
    Road naming appeals and appeals for signage variance shall adhere to the
procedures below.
   (A)   First appeal or request for variance.
      (1)   The appeal must be in writing, directed to the Ordinance
Administrator.
      (2)   The appeal must be dated and describe the reasons for the appeal.
      (3)   All appeals shall clearly state that all property owners along said
road are aware that any road name sign posting variance may hinder emergency
response personnel in their efforts to locate a particular address.
      (4)   The appeal must contain the signatures of a minimum of two-thirds
of the property owners along said road.
      (5)   The Ordinance Administrator shall have 45 days to review the appeal
and respond in writing to the petitioners.
   (B)   Second appeal.
      (1)   Second appeals must be in writing, directed to the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   The appeal must be dated and submitted to the Board of
Commissioners a minimum of ten days prior to the date of the Board meeting.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall have 45 days to respond to the
appeal or to announce a public hearing on the appeal, if required.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 151.040  UNIFORMITY OF THE SYSTEM.
    All roads that are officially designated on the addressing map, whether
public or private, shall be addressed uniformly and consecutively along the
roadway centerline. Numbers shall be assigned to structures along the entirety
of all named thoroughfares.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.041  ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING CRITERIA.
   Any access road, easement, or pathway, whether public or private, shall be
named and have road name signs installed if two or more addressable structures
are located 100 feet or more off of the main road. All addressable structures
on a named road shall be numbered. ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURE will include, but not
be limited to: a residence, a mobile home, a mobile home hook-up, a business, a
warehouse, public telephone, or any other structure in which a telephone is
installed.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.042  NUMBERING METHOD.
    The origin point for addressing roads that begin in the county shall be the
county courthouse. A set of numbers consisting of a three-, four-, or five-
digit natural number (called a structure number) shall be assigned at intervals
of 21.12 feet along a roadway centerline. Odd structure numbers shall be
assigned to the left side of the road by ascending numbers moving away from the
point of origin on the thoroughfare. Even structure numbers shall be assigned
to the right side of the road in a like manner.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.043  LOOP ROADS, DEAD END ROADS, AND CUL-DE-SACS.
   The origin point for all loop roads, dead end roads, and cul-de-sacs shall
be the intersection point on the road nearest the county courthouse.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.044  NUMBERING ORGANIZATION.
   The first potentially assignable structure number (in the first 21.12 feet)
on a given road shall be the number 100 or 101, or the number currently
assigned by a municipal numbering system, if practicable.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
ADDRESSING SYSTEM
§ 151.055  METHOD OF ASSIGNING A NUMBER.
   (A)    The origin point for addressing roads which begin in the county shall
be the county courthouse. In some cases, it may be necessary to break the
length of a road by a designation of north and south or east and west. In those
cases, an intersection shall be designated by the county and addressing shall
commence at the intersection. Loop roads and dead-end roads shall use the point
nearest the courthouse as the origin point. Structures along major
thoroughfares I-85 and U.S. 158 Bypass will be numbered from west to east or
south to north across the county's unincorporated area with the origin being
the most southerly or westerly point. Other U.S. and N.C. routes will be
addressed as follows:
      (1)   U.S. 158 will have the origin point at the courthouse with E/
W designations.
      (2)   U.S. 401 will have the origin point at the courthouse with N/
S designations.
      (3)   N.C. 58 will be numbered north to south from U.S. 158 radiating
from the courthouse.
      (4)   U.S. 1 will have the origin point at its intersection with U.S.
158/U.S. 401 in Norlina and with N/S designations.
      (5)   N.C. 903 will have the origin point at the Halifax County Line with
designations progressing northward from that point.
      (6)   N.C. 43 will have the origin point at its intersection with N.C. 58
in Liberia.
   (B)   When a thoroughfare enters a municipality, the numbering system may
continue consecutively with the municipality street name replacing the highway
name. Existing municipal addresses may be used when a municipality has a
maintainable addressing system in place that conforms to postal regulations and
this chapter.
   (C)   Where two postal centers (towns) deliver mail on the same road, one
set of numbers running consecutively will be used. Addressing would start at
the end of the road, street, lane, and the like, that is near the point of
origin with odd numbers on left and even numbers on right.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.056  CORNER LOTS.
    Structures on corner lots shall be assigned a structure number either from
the road which intersects the addressable driveway to that structure, or from
the road in which the main access or entrance to the structure is oriented. The
number will be assigned using the method in §
151.055 and will be assigned in the manner which is most logical.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.057  ROAD NAME OF ADDRESS.
   The road name for an address shall be the name of the road from which the
structure is numbered.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.058  REQUIREMENTS FOR ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING.
    If development of a private road meets or exceeds the minimum structure
regulations provided in the Warren County ordinances and has or expects to have
two or more addressable structures, said road shall be named and numbered and
structures addressed or re-addressed according to the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.059  DUPLEX AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
    One structure number shall be assigned to each structure whose units share
a common roof. Each unit within the structure shall be assigned a unit
designator. Allowed unit designators include apartment numbers for apartments
and numbers for commercial buildings. The unit designator shall be a number,
and shall not include alphabetic characters, except as stated in §
151.060.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.060  ASSIGNING OF UNIT DESIGNATORS.
    Residential unit designators shall be as follows: ground level floor
numbers #101, #102, #103 and second floor numbers #201, #202, #203, and the
like. All floor levels are to follow this scheme. Underground floor designators
shall follow the same scheme with the exception of having a “U” for a prefix,
for example #U101, #U102, and the like. This section specifically applies to
multi-family dwellings. The lowest unit designator should be assigned to the
unit closest to the primary entrance to the complex and ascend from there.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.061  MOBILE HOMES.
    Manufactured housing, mobile homes, or mobile home hook-up sites shall be
assigned individual street addresses according to the requirements herein,
whether they are located on individual lots or in developed parks. The lowest
unit designator should be assigned to the unit closest to the primary entrance
to the complex and ascend from there.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.062  RECREATIONAL OR RESORT COMMUNITIES.
    Resort communities or recreational developments that have established sites
with structures or electrical power hook-ups shall be assigned individual
street addresses in accordance with the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES
§ 151.075  TIME CONSTRAINTS.
    Within 60 days after written notification of the assignment or change of a
structure number, the owner of said structure shall post the assigned structure
number in compliance with the requirements herein. For buildings under
construction, the assigned structure number must be posted before an occupancy
permit is issued.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.076  NUMBER SPECIFICATION.
   (A)    All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable material. The
color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure, and if mounted on
glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible. Reflective or
illuminated numbers are recommended whenever possible.
   (B)   The minimum number size for residential structures or units shall be
three and one-half inches in height. The minimum size for all other structure
numbers shall be six inches in height. In all cases, a number larger than the
minimum size may be required where the minimum size does not provide adequate
identification.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.077  POSTING LOCATIONS.
   (A)    All numerical identifications must be easily identifiable without
obstruction of view.
   (B)   Any dwelling or business located at more than 100 feet from the
roadway and/or not clearly visible shall be required to have numerical posting
at both the entrance of driveway and located in close proximity to the front
door or entrance way.
   (C)   The post height of three feet and a minimum size of four inches by
four inches pressure-treated material, will be required for all entrances or
private drives that require numerical posting. A mailbox will be suitable, as
long as it is placed at the entranceway to the property or is directly across
the road from the entranceway and is not located within 20 feet of another
mailbox. Numbers on mailboxes shall conform to the same size as structure
numbers (four inches in height) and shall be visible from both sides of the
mailbox.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.078  MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURE NUMBERS.
    Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein, the owner
shall maintain the structure number at all times in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter. Structure numbers and unit designators, as
viewed from the road, shall not be obstructed from view.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.079  VARIANCES.
    The E-911 Database Supervisor will have the right to authorize and approve
alternative methods of displaying structure numbers which meet the intent of
this chapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot be reasonably met.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
ROAD NAMING
§ 151.090  APPROVAL OF PRIVATE ROAD NAMES.
   The E-911 Ordinance Administrator and E-911 Database Supervisor shall review
and approve private road names.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.091  NAMING PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)    The Ordinance Administrator or the E-911 Database Supervisor, when an
unnamed private road is detected, will assign a temporary numerical designator
to the road. The E-911 Database Supervisor will then mail a road naming
petition to the predominant property owner and a notice of this action to
adjoining property owners. The notice will identify the road section to be
named, propose a suggested name if practicable, and allow 30 days for the
return of the petition with a two-thirds majority of the named property owners
agreeing to the name or a substitute name. If no name or petition is received
by the E-911 Database Supervisor within the allotted 30 days' time, the E-911
Database Supervisor will name the road and send notice of the new name to
property owners listed on the original petition. The E-911 Database Supervisor
must approve substitute names or name private roads in accordance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Existing roads with duplicate names will reviewed by the E-911
Database Supervisor to determine which road was named first. The property
owners and residents on the road with the duplicate name will be notified as
described above. The naming procedure will be as defined in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.092  NEW ROAD NAMES.
    When new road names are assigned, every effort should be made to allow the
residents of the county to select the name that they prefer for the road they
live on. To accomplish this, the county has requested that residents prepare
and sign petitions that recommend three alternative names for their road in
order of preference. The names recommended will be evaluated as received to
verify that they meet other naming requirements specified in this chapter. Any
unacceptable names will be eliminated. Assuming at least one of the names meets
all of the specifications set forth in this chapter, the most preferred of the
acceptable names will be forwarded to the County Commissioners for approval.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.093  DESIRABLE NAMES.
   (A)    New names that relate to the history, location, or name of a project
area, shall be given priority consideration. Road names that are appropriate,
pleasant sounding, easy to read, and simple to pronounce shall be promoted.
Words commonly recognized as vulgarities or obscenities will not be allowed.
   (B)   Road names should not consist of more than three words (not including
the road name suffix, such as St., Rd., and Ave.). No road name may contain a
directional word (such as north, south, east, or west) as a separate word in
the name. The directional prefix for a road name will not be considered a part
of the official road name; rather, it is a separate indicator associated with
the road name, as is the road name suffix. Roads with hyphenated names may be
used when necessary. All road names must meet the specifications set by the
United States Postal Service for proper addressing.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.094  DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR OR UNDESIRABLE NAMES.
    The E-911 Database Supervisor shall maintain a database of existing road
names, so that duplicate or “deceptively similar” or “sound-alike” road names
are neither approved nor assigned. The following kinds of names shall be
avoided: numerical, alphabetical, similar in nature, and complicated names. The
E-911 Database Supervisor is hereby given authority to refuse to accept any
road name, which in his or her opinion violates the spirit or the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.095  SUFFIXES AND PREFIXES.
   (A)    The following road name suffixes are allowed: Avenue (Ave.),
Boulevard (Blvd.), Circle (Cir.), Court (Ct.), Drive (Dr.), Highway (Hwy.),
Lane (Ln.), Loop (Lp.), Parkway (Pky.), Place (Pl.), Road (Rd.), Street (St.),
Trail (Trl.), and Way (Way.).
   (B)   The following road name directional prefixes are allowed, but their
use is discouraged whenever possible: North (N), South (S), East (E), and West
(W).
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.096  ROAD SEGMENTS.
    Each road shall bear the same name and uniform numbering along the entirety
of the road. Segments of roads shall not be allowed to have different or
separate names. The E-911 Database Supervisor shall determine what constitutes
a road or way.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.097  OFFSET INTERSECTIONS AND SPLIT ROUTES.
    Split routes, also known as “dog-leg” of offset intersections, shall be
treated as separate roads with different names and numbering to preserve the
integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.098  IMPASSES.
    Impasses or sections of a road that are impassable shall be assigned
different names and numbering to each portion of the road on either side of the
impasse to preserve the integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.099  ROAD NAME SIGNS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Installation and maintenance. All public and private road name signs
that are outside of municipal jurisdictions and required by this chapter shall
be installed and maintained by the Warren County Maintenance Department. All
public and private road name signs required by this chapter within a
municipality's jurisdiction will be maintained by the municipality. Road signs
shall be posted within 60 days after the name is approved.
   (B)   Sign standards. Road name signs shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   All road name sign blades shall be a minimum six-inch vertical
dimension sign with a minimum of four-inch letters.
      (2)   Road name signs or “blades” shall be made of a reflective green
sheeting with the road name in reflective silver letters on both sides. Sign
blades shall meet the quality standards of signs produced by the North Carolina
Prison Enterprises for governmental agencies. See Appendix B of this chapter
for prison enterprises sign standards. Signs shall be located at the quadrant
of an intersection which provides the best readability to traffic. When named
roads also have a NCDOT Secondary Road number, it will also be shown on the
sign blade.
   
      (3)   The Warren County Maintenance Department will maintain a database
of all road name signs that will include: the date of installation (if known),
wording, and other related records.
      (4)   Staff of the Sheriff's Office, staff of other county or municipal
departments, and emergency response personnel in the county will notify the
Warren County Maintenance Department when road signs are damaged or down.
Citizens should also be encouraged to report road sign problems. The Warren
County Maintenance Department will in turn, notify the proper jurisdiction and
track the original reporting date, date of notification, and the date repair or
installation is complete.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.100  PETITION TO CHANGE ROAD NAME.
    Petition to change a road name must include a fee per sign blade to cover
cost of replacing signs in addition to a fee to advertise public hearings. If
the County Commissioners do not approve the request, only the sign cost will be
refunded. See
Appendix A of this chapter for a listing of applicable fees.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.101  SIGN REPLACEMENT FEES.
   The fee for replacing signs damaged by accident or negligence shall be as
defined in the schedule of fees in
Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
AMENDMENTS
§ 151.115  GENERAL.
    The Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time, on its own motion
or on petition, after public notice and a hearing, as provided by this chapter,
amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal the addressing regulations and
assignments. No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to
the Warren County E-911 Advisory Task Force for its recommendation. If no
report has been received from the E-911 Advisory Task Force within 45 days
after submission of the proposal to the E-911 Advisory Task Force, the Board of
County Commissioners may proceed as though a favorable report has been
received.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.116  PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
    Before adopting or amending this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners
shall conduct a public hearing on the proposal. A notice of the public hearing
shall be advertised once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a
newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published
for the first time not less than ten days or more than 25 days before the
appointed date of the meeting.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.117  LETTER OF NOTIFICATION.
    Whenever there is a proposal for a change in the addressing system
involving any portion of an address, the landowner of that parcel's address as
shown on the county tax listing and the landowners of all the parcels of land
abutting that parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing, shall be
mailed a notice of the proposed change in the addressing system by the E-911
Database Supervisor. The E-911 Database Supervisor shall provide written
notification by first class mail to the last address listed of the landowners
according to the county tax abstracts. The E-911 Database Supervisor shall
provide written notification to the Board of Commissioners attesting to the
fulfillment of this task.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.118  PROTESTS.
    No protest against any change in, or amendment to, the addressing
ordinance, regulations, proposals, or the addressing system, shall be valid or
effective unless it is in the form of a written petition. The petition shall
bear the names and signatures of the opposing property owners and shall affirm
and state the nature of protest to the proposal.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.119  APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   (A)    Applications for an amendment to this chapter shall be filed with the
County Board of Commissioners at least ten days prior to the date on which it
is to be heard by the Board. Each application shall be signed, be in a
duplicated form, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The applicant's name and address in full;
      (2)   In the case of a text amendment, it shall set forth the new text to
be added and the existing text to be deleted and any other text changes that
will have to be made as a result of the effect on the remaining articles,
sections, definitions, diagrams or attachments;
      (3)   If the proposed amendment will change the addressing map, a copy of
the addressing map shall be marked to indicate the impact of the proposed
amendment to the existing map and shall be presented with the application for
amendment.
   (B)   All proposed amendments to this chapter should be submitted to the
Board of Commissioners for review and recommendation. A public hearing shall be
held by the Board of County Commissioners before the adoption of any proposed
amendments to this chapter. When the Board of County Commissioners shall have
denied any application for the change of a portion or matter of this chapter,
it shall not thereafter accept any other application for the same change
involving that portion or matter of the chapter until the expiration of six
months from the date of such previous denial.
   (C)   Before any action shall be taken on an amendment request, the party or
parties proposing or recommending said amendment shall deposit the required fee
with the Tax Administrator at the time the petition is filed to cover
publication and other miscellaneous cost for said change. Under no condition
shall said fee or any part thereof be refunded for failure of said amendment to
be adopted. However, in the event an application is withdrawn prior to the time
it is ordered advertised for hearing by the Board of Commissioners, three-
fourths of the fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.130  IMPROPER ADDRESS DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or display a different address or
portion thereof except as provided by this chapter or the “Official Road Name
and Structure Numbering Map, Warren County, North Carolina”.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.131  IMPROPER ROAD NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to name or designate the name of any
private road, street, drive, cart way, easement, right-of-way, access area, or
any other thoroughfare, except as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.132  IMPROPER ROAD SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or erect any road sign that
does not comply with the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.133  DAMAGE TO ROAD SIGNS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or negligently remove,
damage, or somehow obstruct view of any county road name sign. Replacement
costs for signs damaged or destroyed by accidents shall be paid by the party
charged with the accident. Replacement cost shall be the cost to replace or
repair the sign, post, and any incidental items related to the replacement or
repair. See
Appendix A of this chapter for a schedule of fees for sign costs.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.134  NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
    The following actions shall take place:
   (A)   Notice of violations will be issued by the E-911 Database Supervisor
or his or her designee.
   (B)   The notice of violation shall be directed to the name and address of
the owner of the structure or the offending party.
   (C)   The notice must set forth the action necessary for the offender to be
in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.135  LEGAL PROSECUTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking other such
lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019 ; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.136  CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
    Where the provisions of this chapter are higher or more restrictive than
those imposed by G.S. Ch. 160D or any other applicable law or regulation, such
higher or more restrictive provisions shall apply.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)    Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S.
§ 14-4 and may be punished as provided therein.
      (2)   Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with the following
procedure:
         (a)   Initial notification of violation shall be in writing by first
class mail, return receipt required, to the person to be notified.
         (b)   If not corrected within ten days, a warning citation may be
issued.
         (c)   If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning
citation, a second citation including a fine may be issued. See
Appendix A of this chapter for a listing of fines and fees.
         (d)   Each day the violation continues after the second citation with
fine is issued shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Violation of §§
151.130 through
151.133 shall be punishable by maximum fines as listed in
Appendix A of this chapter. Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with
the procedure identified in §§
151.134 and
151.135.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
APPENDIX A:  SCHEDULE OF FEES
A.01   Petition to Change Road Name (see also §
151.100)
    Petition to change a road name must include a fee of $50 per sign blade to
cover cost of replacing signs in addition to $100 to advertise public hearings.
On signs where double blades are used, each side will be considered a separate
blade. If the County Commissioners do not approve the request, only the sign
cost will be refunded.
A.02   Sign Replacement Fees (see also §§
151.101 and
151.133)
    The fee for replacing signs damaged by accident or negligence shall be $50
per sign blade and $25 per signpost. On signs where double blades are used,
each side will be considered a separate blade.
A.03   Posting Structure Numbers (see also §
151.999 (A)(3))
    If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning citation, a
second citation including a fine of $50 may be issued.
A04   Road Name Signs (see also §
151.999(C))
    Violation of §§
151.130 through
151.133 maximum fines of up to $50 for each violation.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord.
passed 6-7-2021)
APPENDIX B:  NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
SIGNS AND POST STANDARDS AND COSTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1163.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1165.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1169.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1171.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1173.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000; Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
CHAPTER 152:  MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Authority
   
152.04   Jurisdiction
   
152.05   Prerequisite to construction
   
152.06   Definitions
Procedure for Securing Approval of Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks
   
152.20   Construction requirements
   
152.21   Review of proposed park plan
   
152.22   Issuance of construction approval and occupancy certificate
Design Standards
   
152.35   General requirements
   
152.36   Streets and parking
   
152.37   Manufactured/mobile home park spaces and manufactured/mobile home
dwelling requirements
   
152.38   Utility requirements
   
152.39   Registration of occupants
   
152.40   Inspection
Administration
   
152.55   Existing manufactured/mobile home parks
   
152.56   Variances
   
152.57   Zoned areas
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Ordinance,
Warren County, North Carolina”, and may be cited as the “manufactured/mobile
home park ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and guide the establishment,
alteration, and expansion of manufactured/mobile home parks in order to promote
public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.03  AUTHORITY.
   The county hereby exercises its authority to adopt and enforce a
manufactured/mobile home park ordinance under the provisions granted by G.S. §§
153A-45, 153A-48, 153A-121, 153A-122, and 160A-334.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.04  JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the establishment, alteration, and expansion
of each and every manufactured/mobile park lying within the jurisdiction of the
county and within the jurisdiction of any municipality whose governing body, by
resolution, agrees to such regulation.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.05  PREREQUISITE TO CONSTRUCTION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no manufactured/mobile home park
within the county’s territorial jurisdiction shall be established, altered, or
expanded until approved by the County Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.06  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. Any sewerage system serving 15 or more service
connections.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water supply that serves a community that
is not an incorporated municipality. This includes unincorporated communities,
subdivisions, and/or manufactured/mobile home parks having 15 or more service
connections.
   CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the enforcement
officer authorizing the manufactured/mobile home park developer to construct a
manufactured/mobile home park in accordance with a park plan approved by the
County Planning Board, the County Health Department, and the County Inspections
Department.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, trust, partnership, association, or corporation
engaged in development, or proposed development, of a manufactured/mobile home
park.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The person or persons appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME. 
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the
traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in
length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. MANUFACTURED HOME includes any structure that meets all of
the requirements of this section except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
      (2)   For manufactured homes built prior to June 15, 1976, MANUFACTURED
HOME means a portable manufactured housing unit designed for transportation on
its own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi-permanent foundation
having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
MANUFACTURED HOME also means a double-wide manufactured home, which is two or
more portable manufactured housing units designed for transportation on their
own chassis that connect on site for placement on a temporary or semi-permanent
foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet
in width (G.S. § 143-45(7)).
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, manufactured home, mobile home and
trailer shall be considered as having the same definition.
      (4)   Travel trailers, campers and recreational vehicles shall not be
considered as a MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME; a factory fabricated transportable
building designed for use by itself or designed to be incorporated with similar
units at a building sib into an approved modular structure meeting current
residential Building Code standards shall not be considered as a MANUFACTURED/
MOBILE HOME.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK.  Any lot or part thereof, or any parcel of
land which is used or offered as a location for two or more MANUFACTURED/MOBILE
HOMES, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
Provided, however, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to home
spaces allocated by the property owner without charge to persons related to the
property owner by blood or marriage or to tenant farmers employed by said owner
for the purpose of engaging in agricultural pursuits or the premises. For the
purpose of this chapter, persons related by blood or marriage shall be defined
as husband, wife, child, step child, sister, brother, grandparent, aunt, uncle
and in-law. If any of these conditions cease to exist, said property owner
shall comply with all provisions set forth in this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK PLAN.  A plan of a proposed MANUFACTURED/
MOBILE HOME PARK, prepared by the developer in accordance with §
152.21 of this chapter, and presented to the County Planning Board for
approval.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK SPACE. Any parcel of ground within a
manufactured/mobile home park designated for the exclusive use of one home.
   OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the enforcement officer to a
manufactured/mobile home park owner or operator upon the completion of a
manufactured/mobile home park which conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Any water supply furnishing potable water to 15 or more
residences or business or combination thereof.
   RECORDED RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A residential subdivision which has been
recorded in the county’s Register of Deeds.
   SHALL. Is intended to indicate a mandatory requirement.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the terms of this chapter where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in an unnecessary hardship of use of the property.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
PROCEDURE FOR SECURING APPROVAL OF MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 152.20  CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of a new manufactured/mobile home park or
the expansion or alteration of an existing park, the developer shall make
application to the County Planning Board for approval to construct or expand
such a park. The application shall be accompanied by nine copies of the
proposed park plan. Such application must be received at least 14 days prior to
a regularly scheduled meeting of the County Planning Board if the application
and proposed park plan are to be reviewed by the Board at that time.
   (B)   The park plan shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch or
larger and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name of the park, the names and addresses of the owner(s) and
the designer or surveyor;
      (2)   Date, scale, and approximate north arrow;
      (3)   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearings and distances;
      (4)   Site plan showing streets, driveways, recreation areas, parking
spaces, service buildings, watercourses, easements, manufactured/mobile spaces
showing the proposed placement of the unit on each lot, and all structures to
be located on the park site;
      (5)   Vicinity map showing the location of the park and the surrounding
land usage;
      (6)   Names of adjoining property owners;
      (7)   The proposed utility system for gas, surface water drainage, street
lights, electrical power, water supply, and solid waste and sewage disposal
facilities;
      (8)   Certification of approval of water supply system plans by the
state’s Department of Environmental Health and Natural Resources (EHNR) if
systems are to serve 15 or more sites. If system will serve four but less than
15 sites, certification of approval of the water system plans shall be obtained
from the County Health Department;
      (9)   Certification of approval of sewage collection systems and
treatment facilities plans from the state’s Department of Environmental Health
and Natural Resources (EHNR). If individual septic tank systems are used or
proposed to be used, certification of the suitability of the site for use of a
septic tank system shall be obtained form the County Health Department;
      (10)   Certification of approval of solid waste storage, collection and
disposal plans by the County Health Department; and
      (11)   Land contours with vertical intervals of not less than two feet
for all parks with 25 sites or more.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.21  REVIEW OF PROPOSED PARK PLAN.
   The designated Enforcement Officer shall transmit the proposed park plans to
the County Planning Board for review at the next scheduled meeting of the
Planning Board.
   (A)   (1)   The County Planning Board shall review the following to
determine if the proposed park plan is in accordance with the design standards
set forth in this chapter:
         (a)   Title information;
         (b)   Location map;
         (c)   Recreation areas;
         (d)   Street and lot design;
         (e)   Surface water drainage;
         (f)   Street lighting system; and
         (g)   Other features of the park.
      (2)   It is recommended that the park developer, or his or her agent, be
present to answer questions concerning the proposed park plan.
   (B)   (1)   Copies of the park plan shall be distributed as follows:
         (a)   One copy to be retained in Planning Board minutes of meeting;
         (b)   One copy to be retained by Planning Board for proposed park
file;
         (c)   One copy to be submitted to County Tax Assessor’s Office;
         (d)   One copy to be submitted to County Central Emergency
Communications Center;
         (e)   One copy to be submitted to County Register of Deeds;
         (f)   One copy to be submitted to the County Health Department;
         (g)   One copy to be submitted to the County Building Inspections
Department; and
         (h)   Two copies to be returned to the park developer, or his or her
authorized agent.
      (2)   Each copy of the park plan distributed shall be retained in a file
by the above for future references.
   (C)   The County Health Department shall review the proposed park plan prior
to approval by the County Planning Board. This Department shall be responsible
for the review of the following:
      (1)   Source of water and water distribution system;
      (2)   Sanitary sewerage system;
      (3)   Adequate lot size (if septic tanks are to be used);
      (4)   Adequate facilities and location for solid waste storage,
collection, and disposal; and
      (5)   Each well located as to provide a minimum pollution-free radius of
100 feet.
   (D)   The County Electrical Inspector shall review the proposed park plan
prior to approval by the County Planning Board to determine if the proposed
electrical systems are in accordance with electrical codes adopted by the
county.
   (E)   Each agency shall review the plan within a reasonable time to allow
the County Planning Board to meet the 45-day requirement. Should any agency
find deficiencies in the proposed park plan, the developer or his or her agent
shall be notified by the agency to correct such deficiencies in the plan. Each
agency shall notify the enforcement officer after reviewing the proposed park
plan and shall give the enforcement officer a written statement of approval or
disapproval, if disapproved, then the reasons therefor shall be stated. The
enforcement officer shall then submit these reports to the County Planning
Board for its review of the proposed park plan.
   (F)   The proposed park plan shall be reviewed by the County Planning Board
within 45 days after submittal to the Board. If the Planning Board fails to
submit a report of approval within the specified time, it shall be deemed to
have recommended approval of the park plan.
   (G)   If the Planning Board should disapprove the proposed park plan, the
reasons for such action and recommended changes shall be given in writing to
the park developer or his or her agent.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.22  ISSUANCE OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL AND OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   (1)   After receiving approval of the park plan by the County Health
Department, the County Electrical Inspector, and the County Planning Board, the
Chairperson or Secretary of the Board shall then notify and authorize the
enforcement officer to issue construction approval to the developer or his or
her agent.
      (2)   The intent of this construction approval is to enable the execution
of the park plan in the field and shall not be construed as to entitle the
recipient to offer spaces or sites for rent or lease, or to operate a
manufactured/mobile park as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   If the construction of the park has not begun within 12 months from
the issuance date of the construction approval, the County Planning Board may
grant an extension of the construction approval if the developer appears before
the Planning Board and shows cause for the extension.
   (C)   After completion of construction of the manufactured/mobile home park,
the developer shall then apply for an occupancy certificate from the
Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer, a representative of the County
Health Department and a representative of the County Electrical Inspector shall
make an on-site inspection of the park.
      (1)   If the plan conforms to the park plan approved by the County
Planning Board and other required agencies, the Enforcement Officer shall issue
the developer an occupancy certificate.
      (2)   If the plan does not conform with the approved plan, the
Enforcement Officer shall delay issuance of the occupancy certificate until the
park conforms with requirements.
   (D)   The occupancy certificate issued to the developer shall constitute
authority to lease or rent sites or spaces in the manufactured/mobile home
park.
   (E)   When a manufactured/mobile home park is to be developed in phases, the
proposed park plan shall be submitted for the entire park plan and application
for occupancy certificate may be made for each stage developed.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.35  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following standards shall be considered the minimum requirements for all
new, altered and expanded portions of manufactured/mobile home parks.
   (A)   No living compartment or structure other than a Florida room, or other
prefabricated structure specifically designed for manufactured/mobile home use
or extension shall be added to any manufactured/mobile home parked within the
jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   All homes shall be placed on the lot so that the front door side of
the unit will face towards the street of which it abuts. (Corner lot frontage
shall be determined during plan review by developer and Planning Board).
   (C)   Manufactured/mobile home park identification signs shall be placed at
each entrance to the park and shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Signs shall be a minimum of nine square feet in area;
      (2)   Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area; and
      (3)   Signs may be illuminated, but only indirect non-flashing lighting
shall be used for illumination.
   (D)   When a manufactured/mobile home park is to be constructed within 50
feet of a recorded residential subdivision not naturally screened, the owner of
the park shall provide and maintain a 20-foot buffer strip comprised of natural
plantings or solid fencing at least five feet in height.
   (E)   Within a manufactured/mobile home park, one home may be used as an
administrative office.
   (F)   Convenience establishments of a commercial nature shall be limited to
food stores, coin operated laundries, beauty parlors, and barber shops if the
following restrictions are followed.
      (1)   Such establishments shall be subordinate to the residential use and
character of the park.
      (2)   Such establishments shall present no visible evidence of their
commercial intent beyond the confines of the park.
      (3)   Such establishments shall be designed to accommodate the population
of their park only.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.36  STREETS AND PARKING.
   (A)   Convenient access to each site or space shall be provided by streets
or drives with a minimum right-of-way of 50 feet, of which 24 feet shall be
graded and properly drained for automobile circulation within the park. Streets
and drives shall be designed to meet the state’s Division of Highway
requirements for possible future acceptance to the secondary road system.
Maintenance of such streets shall be provided by the owner or operator of the
park.
   (B)   All required right-of-way widths shall have an all-weather surface of
gravel or equivalent.
   (C)   Every lot or space shall abut a street.
   (D)   Permanent dead end streets or cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 500 feet in
length and shall provide a turnaround of at least 80 feet in diameter.
   (E)   Proper sight line shall be maintained at all intersections of streets.
Measured along the centerline, there shall be a clear sight triangle of 150
feet for those streets intersecting a right-of-way maintained by the state’s
Department of Transportation. All interior drives shall maintain a sight
distance triangle of 75 feet. No building or obstruction shall be permitted in
this area.
   (F)   All streets located within a manufactured/mobile home park shall be
named. Street names shall not duplicate or be in similarity to existing street
names in the county and shall be subject to approval by the County Planning
Board.
   (G)   Two automobile parking spaces shall be provided adjacent to each home
site but shall not be located within any public right-of-way or within any
street of the park.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.37  MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK SPACES AND DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All manufactured/mobile homes shall be located on individual lots or
spaces.
   (B)   All manufactured/mobile homes shall meet the tie down and foundation
standards enforced by the County Building Inspector.
   (C)   Each park space shall be clearly defined or identified by means of
concrete or iron pipe markers on all corners.
   (D)   Each park space shall be clearly identified by numbers on weather-
resistant material and shall be a minimum of 16 square inches in area,
(approximately four inches by four inches). Each space identification sign
shall be placed on lot or space in a uniform manner.
   (E)   (1)   Each manufactured/mobile home shall meet the following minimum
setback requirements:
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet from street right-of-way or property line;
         (b)   Rear yard: 25 feet from property line; and
         (c)   Side yard: 10 feet from property line.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements stated herein, each home shall be
located at least 20 feet from any other home and 20 feet from any permanent
building within the park.
   (F)   Each lot or space shall not be less than the following:
 
                                                             Minimum
                                                             Width    Depth
Lot with public water and sewer           15,000 square feet 100 feet 125 feet
Lot with septic tank and public water     20,000 square feet 100 feet 150 feet
Lot with public sewer and individual well 20,000 square feet 100 feet 150 feet
Lot with well and septic tank             30,000 square feet 100 feet 200 feet
 
   (G)   Each park shall provide 400 square feet of recreation area for each
mobile home space that is less than 30,000 square feet in area. For lots or
spaces of 30,000 or more square feet in area, no recreation area shall be
required unless the park comprises more than 25 lots or spaces.
   (H)   Each lot or space shall not be located on ground susceptible to
flooding.
   (I)   Manufactured/mobile homes in the county and not parked within a
manufactured/mobile home park as defined by this chapter, shall adhere to the
following standards which are required of park operators:
      (1)   Where city or community water and sewer, as defined by this chapter
is available, these services must be utilized and the property must consist of
a minimum of 15,000 square feet;
      (2)   Where city or community water, as defined by this chapter, and
individual septic tank is utilized, the property must consist of 20,000 square
feet;
      (3)   Where individual wells and septic tanks are utilized, the property
must consist of a minimum of 30,000 square feet; and
      (4)   Individual wells and septic tanks shall be located a minimum of ten
feet from all property lines. Owners of manufactured/mobile home dwellings
other than those within a manufactured/mobile home park, as defined by this
chapter, must obtain a permit from the County Health Department, pertaining to
the above requirements and must obtain a permit from the County Inspections
Department Both of the required permits described above must be obtained before
the set-up of the home on any property within the jurisdiction of the county.
Manufactured/mobile homes, as defined by this chapter, will be classified as
dwellings, and/or homes, or housing within the county and any and all
ordinances or laws pertaining to dwellings, homes, or housing issued or passed
by the County Board of Commissioners, shall include manufactured/mobile homes,
except those parked within an acceptable manufactured/mobile home park as
defined by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.38  UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable water supply of water for
domestic purposes shall be provided in each park. Where a municipal water
supply is available of satisfactory quantity, quality, and pressure and located
within 500 feet of the park, connection shall be made thereto and its supply
used exclusively.
   (B)   When a municipal water supply is not available, a water supply shall
be developed for each lot within the park. Systems comprising of at least four
spaces or lots, but not more than 14 spaces or lots, shall be required to
submit water supply system plans to the Division of Environmental Health of the
county’s Health Department.
   (C)   When a municipal water supply is not available and the system
comprises more than 15 or more spaces, water system plans shall be required to
be submitted to the state’s Department of Environmental Health and Natural
Resources (EHNR) for approval.
   (D)   Sewage disposal facilities shall comply with the following.
      (1)   (a)   Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be
provided in all manufactured/mobile home parks. A sewer collection system shall
be connected to a public or community sewerage system when such a system is
available and within 500 feet of a park. When such a connection to a public or
community system cannot be made, individual septic systems may be provided if
the county’s Health Department finds that the soil, topography, and groundwater
conditions are favorable.
         (b)   All sewage disposal systems shall be designed, constructed, and
approved in accordance with the regulations governing sewage disposal systems
in the county, promulgated by the county’s Board of Health; or where
applicable, under the provisions of G.S. § 130A-335, the rules and regulations
promulgated by the state’s Department of Environmental Health and Natural
Resources. The regulations governing sewage disposal systems in the county are
on file at the office of the Health Director and the Clerk of Superior Court of
the county. The provisions of these regulations and all amendments, adopted by
reference in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 153A-47, shall become
part of this chapter as full as if set out herein.
      (2)   (a)   Each space or lot within the park shall be provided with at
least a four-inch diameter sewer connection pipe where collection systems are
provided. The slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-fourth inch
per foot and shall consist of one pipe line only without any branch fittings.
The sewer riser pipe shall be so located on each space that the sewer
connection to the home drain outlet will approximate a vertical position, shall
extend at least four inches above ground level and shall have a concrete apron
installed around riser pipe at grade level. The apron shall be a minimum of
four square feet in area, (approximately two feet by two feet square), and
shall be a minimum of four inches in thickness.
         (b)   All joints in a sewer connection pipe and sewer riser pipe shall
be water tight and shall be constructed of similar and approved materials. Pipe
used for sewer riser and sewer connection piping shall be semi-rigid,
corrosion-resistant, non-absorbent, and durable. The inner lining shall be
smooth.
      (3)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer pipe when a home
does not occupy a space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the
riser.
   (E)   Solid waste disposal facilities shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste in a
manufactured/mobile home park shall be conducted as to create no health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or
pollution.
      (2)   All solid waste containing garbage shall be stored in standard fly-
tight, watertight, rodent-proof containers with a capacity of not more than 32
gallons which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any home site.
Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all solid waste containing garbage. The park management shall be
responsible for the proper storage, collection and disposal of solid waste.
      (3)   Stands shall be provided for all containers. Such container stands
shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize
spillage and container deterioration, and to facilitate on-site maintenance.
      (4)   All solid waste containing garbage shall be collected at least
twice a week. Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal
or private agencies, the park owner shall provide the service. All solid waste
containing garbage shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers to a site or landfill approved by the County Health
Department.
   (F)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of
insect and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other
measures to control insects and rodents shall conform to the requirements of
the County Health Department.
      (2)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulation of debris and
abandoned motor vehicles which may provide rodent harborage or breeding places
for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other similar pest.
      (3)   Storage areas of all items of a temporary nature such as lumber,
pipe and other building materials stored for immediate use for construction
shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage; and shall be stored at
least one foot above the ground.
      (4)   Storage of all items of a permanent nature shall be in an approved
portable container.
      (5)   As the potential for insect and rodent infestation exist, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials approved by the county’s Hearth
Department. The underside of all homes, buildings, and structures shall be
underpinned or skirted of a material approved by the County Building Inspector
within 90 days after the home, building, or structure has been placed and/or
set up on the lot or space.
      (6)   The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to
prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers, snakes, and other noxious insects or
reptiles and to prevent the spread of fire. Parks shall be so maintained as to
prevent the growth of ragweed, poison oak, poison ivy, poison sumac, and other
noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas shall be maintained
free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
   (G)   All streets within the park shall be adequately illuminated from
sunset to sunrise. The minimum size street light shall be a 175 watt mercury-
vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen class), or its equivalent and spaced at
intervals not to exceed 300 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.39  REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every park owner or operator shall maintain an accurate register
containing a record of all lessees or renters of spaces or lots in the park.
   (B)   The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of lessee or renter; and
      (2)   Manufactured/mobile home space or lot number.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.40  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The County Health Department, the County Electrical Inspector, the
County Building Inspector, the County Plumbing Inspector, and/or the officially
designated enforcement officer is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter. It shall be the duty of the owners of parks to give these agencies
free access to such premises at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   (B)   The person to whom an occupancy certificate for a park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities, and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.55  EXISTING MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Parks existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall be allowed
to continue, but shall not be allowed to expand or increase in any manner
unless such expansion meets fully the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.56  VARIANCES.
   Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
the County Planning Board may authorize a variance, if such variance can be
made without destroying the intent of the ordinance. Any variance thus
authorized shall be entered in the minutes of the County Planning Board and the
reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.57  ZONED AREAS.
   In areas of the county where a zoning ordinance is in effect, manufactured/
mobile home parks shall be permitted only in conformance with the regulations
of the zoned district in which they are located.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50 and/or
imprisonment of not more than 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1995)
CHAPTER 153:  ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Authority
   
153.02   Jurisdiction
   
153.03   Short title
   
153.04   Purpose
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Amendments
Regulated Activities
   
153.20   Administration
   
153.21   Abandoned manufactured homes unlawful; removal authorized
   
153.22   Notice, hearing, appeal, and lien on property
   
153.23   Enforcement
   
153.24   Inspection
   
153.25   Duty of owners and occupants
   
153.26   Demolition contractors
   
153.27   Standard operating procedures
   
153.28   Notification
Involuntary Demolitions
   
153.40   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing
   
153.41   Procedure after hearing
   
153.42   Failure to comply with order
   
153.43   Abatement process
   
153.44   Deconstruction
   
153.45   Removal
   
153.46   Lot condition
   
153.47   Liability
   
153.48   Conflict of law
   
153.49   Additional powers to limit nuisances
   
153.50   Exclusion of manufactured homes
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  AUTHORITY.
   The county hereby exercises its authority to enact abandoned manufactured
home regulations pursuant to G.S §§ 153A-121, 153A-123, and 153A-140.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.02  JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall be described as any part of the
county not within the corporate limits of any municipality. In addition, the
governing board of any municipality may by resolution permit this chapter to be
applicable within the municipality.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.03  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Abandoned Manufactured Home Ordinance of
Warren County, North Carolina”, and may be cited as the “abandoned manufactured
home ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.04  PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public safety, health, and
welfare of the citizens of the county through the regulation of abandoned
manufactured homes in the county.  All abandoned property defined herein is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, the abatement of which pursuant to the
police power is hereby declared to be necessary for the health, welfare, and
safety of the residents of the county. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the
authority contained in G.S. Ch. 160D and G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-123, and 153A-
140.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2020)
§ 153.05  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOME.
   (A)   A manufactured home that has not been used as a dwelling for at least
180 days and is found to be a nuisance because it is in a wrecked, scrapped,
disassembled, unusable, cannibalized, burnt, inoperable, or un-repairable
state, or creates or fosters one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   The collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   Concentrated quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable or
explosive materials;
      (5)   A source of danger for children because of the possibility of
entrapment or injury from exposed sharp surfaces of metal, glass, or other
rigid materials;
      (6)   A source of danger from the home, or parts thereof, falling or
turning over;
      (7)   An accumulation of garbage, food waste, or any other rotten or
putrefied matter of any kind;
      (8)   Accumulation of sewage or animal waste;
      (9)   Concentrated quantities of hazardous materials;
      (10)   The presence of dead animals; and
      (11)   Any manufactured home specifically declared a public health,
safety, or welfare hazard by the Board of County Commissioners or a duly
authorized county official or employee.
   (B)   Manufactured homes that are abandoned as defined herein shall be
considered personal property and, if previously characterized as real property
for tax or other purposes, shall forfeit that characterization.
   DEMOLITION COLLECTION CENTER. A manned or unmanned facility used for the
collection, separation, and short-term storage of recyclables or demolition
debris but does not include on-site processing.
   DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR. An entity or individual contracted either with the
county or a property owner to perform the service of deconstruction, removal,
and/or recycling of a structure or scrap debris. DEMOLITION CONTRACTORS shall
obtain a valid demolition permit through the Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department prior to starting the abatement process.
   DILAPIDATED MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home which is unfit for human
habitation or use and cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with
all of the minimum standards except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or Code
Enforcement Officers.   
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The county-designated authority to include the Director
of Public Works, Planning and Zoning Administrator, Code Enforcement Officers,
Environmental Health Department Director and/or County Sheriff's Deputies.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to G.S § 143-145(7), a structure, transportable
in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode whose body is eight feet
or more in width or 40 feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320
square feet or more, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to
be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning
and electrical systems contained therein. Such term shall include any structure
that meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and complies
with the standards established under that federal agency. For purposes of this
chapter, MANUFACTURED HOME includes both factory-built single-family structures
built to meet standards established under The National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and MANUFACTURED HOMES built
prior to the effective date of those standards (June 15, 1976). The federal
standards became effective on June 15, 1976, and all homes with a date of
manufacture on or after this date were required to have a HUD label indicating
compliance with the standards.
   SCOPE OF SERVICES AGREEMENT. A written and properly executed contract
between a demolition contractor and the county which governs the deconstruction
and removal of abandoned manufactured homes. Said contract specifies the
process of the proper demolition and removal of an abandoned manufactured home.
Guidelines, requirements, and standard operating procedures are specified
within this contract.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.06  AMENDMENTS.
   The County Board of Commissioners may periodically amend the terms of this
chapter and shall adopt no amendment to this chapter until a public hearing
properly announced has been held on the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009 ; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
REGULATED ACTIVITIES
§ 153.20  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)    The rules and regulations prescribed in this chapter shall be
enforced by the County Sheriff's Department, County Planning/Zoning Department,
County Environmental Health Department, County Public Works Department and
other appropriate agencies having duties and responsibilities in the areas of
enforcement. These agencies are hereby empowered to issue citations upon a
violation of this chapter and are jointly and mutually responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority of powers of officers or the employees of the county or state in
enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties with regard to
abandoned manufactured homes.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.21  ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or persons entitled to
the possession of an abandoned manufactured home, or for the registered owner,
lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which an abandoned manufactured
home is located, to cause or allow a manufactured home to be an abandoned
manufactured home.   
   (B)   A manufactured home shall be considered abandoned if it has not been
connected to either water or electrical utilities for a period in excess of 180
days.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22  NOTICE, HEARING, APPEAL, AND LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)    Upon determining that a violation of this chapter exists, the
Director of Public Works, Planning and Zoning Administrator, Code Enforcement
Officers, Environmental Health Department Director and/or County Sheriff's
Deputies shall issue a written notice of violation to (1) the registered owner
or person(s) entitled to possession of the abandoned manufactured home; and (2)
the registered owner, lessee, or person(s) entitled to the land on which the
abandoned manufactured home is located.
   (B)   Notice shall be effectuated by hand delivery, service of process, or
certified mail, return receipt requested, pursuant to G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 5.
   (C)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Identify the property and describe the abandoned manufactured home
(s) located thereon to be removed, abated, or remedied;
      (2)   Direct that the abandoned manufactured home(s) be removed, abated,
or remedied;
      (3)   Provide a reasonable time period in which to comply, not to exceed
120 days;
      (4)   State that the continued violation of the provisions of this
chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine for each abandoned manufactured
home not to exceed $100 and imprisonment up to 30 days. Each day the violation
exists constitutes a separate offense;
      (5)   State that in order to prevent any further enforcement action, the
abandoned manufactured home must be repaired or removed from the property and
properly disposed of at a permitted landfill that accepts construction and
demolition debris; and
      (6)   Notify the violator(s) of the right to appeal the basis of the
notice to the Planning/Zoning Department Administrator, provided the appeal is
made within 15 calendar days of receipt of the notice.
   (D)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner, tenant, possessor, or
occupant cannot after due diligence be discovered, the notice shall, in
addition to the above, include the date, time, and location for a hearing
before the Planning/Zoning Department Administrator or other designated
official on the matter. The notice shall be considered properly and adequately
served if a copy thereof is conspicuously posted on the property in question at
least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published in
a newspaper having general circulation in the county at least once not later
than one week prior to the hearing.
   (E)   The owner, tenant, possessor, occupant, or agent of the owner may
appeal a notice to the Planning and Zoning Administrator for decision. The
owner or his or her agent may either rely on written materials or appear before
the Planning and Zoning Administrator for a hearing at which he or she shall be
heard in person or by counsel and may present arguments and evidence pertaining
to the matter. The only appealable issues are: (1) whether the person is
actually entitled notice and/or (2) whether the action or condition that serves
as the basis of the notice is dangerous or prejudicial to public health,
safety, or welfare. It matters not whether an owner caused the manufactured
home to be on the property or has a possessory interest in the condition
creating the abandoned manufactured home. Neither is a defense.
   (F)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall, within 15 days of the
date of the hearing or the date of the written appeal if a hearing is not
requested, issue an order either canceling the notice or directing the violator
(s) to remove, abate, or remedy the identified manufactured home. The owner,
tenant, possessor, or occupant may appeal decisions of the Planning and Zoning
Administrator to the County Manager within 15 days of the decision. An
appellant may further appeal the decision of the County Manager to the County
Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   If an abandoned manufactured home is not removed, abated, or remedied
during the time period provided by the initial notice, or within 30 days
following the last decision rendered by either the Planning and Zoning
Administrator or Board of Commissioners from which an appeal has not been
taken, then, pursuant to G.S. § 153A-140 and subject to the provisions of G.S.
Ch. 106, Art. 57, the county may enter the property and remove, abate, or
remedy everything related to the abandoned manufactured home that is dangerous
or prejudicial to the public health or safety. The expense of such action shall
be paid by the violator(s), and shall, if not paid, be a lien upon the property
or premises where the abandoned manufactured home was located and shall be
collected as unpaid taxes.
   (H)   Any person or entity that lawfully removes an abandoned manufactured
home pursuant to this chapter shall not be held liable for damages resulting
from such removal of the abandoned manufactured home to the owner, lienholder,
or other person legally entitled to the possession of the abandoned
manufactured home removed; however, any person who, without due care,
negligently or intentionally inflicts injury upon any person or real property
in the removal of such abandoned manufactured home, may be held liable for
damages.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)    Enforcement of this chapter shall rest with those governmental
agencies and personnel authorized to exercise police powers, to include the
County Sheriff's Department, Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department,
Public Works Department, and Department of Environmental Health. Said authority
shall include the police powers:
      (1)   To investigate the condition(s) of the building(s) and/or premises
in question, and to inspect dwellings and dwelling units under the jurisdiction
of the county in order to determine which building(s) for human habitation and/
or use are in violation of this chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the
objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing or demolition of
each such building;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of buildings and/or abatement of conditions in violation of this chapter;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those building(s) which are in violation of the
provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination and
inspections; provided, such entries are made in accordance with this chapter
and state law, and in such manner as to lessen the inconvenience to the persons
in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and
employees as deemed necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
chapter, and to delegate any of the functions and powers to such officers,
agents and employees; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
Board of Commissioners and as is directed by the County Manager.
   (B)   Warren County Sheriff's Deputies, as the law enforcement agency with
powers of arrest, shall notify the Public Works Director, Planning and Zoning
Administrator and Code Enforcement Officer(s) of potential violations of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Director of Environmental Health is prescribed to assist the above
stated county agencies and representatives in matters of determining adequate/
inadequate installation of septic systems and wells, in addition to notifying
the Public Works Director, Planning and Zoning Administrator and Code
Enforcement Officer(s) of potential violations of this chapter.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the inspection of
property and by observation of persons who are engaged in or responsible for a
violation of an action or condition that is prejudicial to public health,
safety, or welfare. Enforcement personnel are empowered to issue citations,
warning citations, or letters of warning when any of the provisions of this
chapter have been violated. Citations shall be delivered by enforcement
officials in person to the alleged violator or delivered by registered mail
return receipt requested to the person so charged. Any citation of violation so
delivered or mailed shall direct the alleged violator to appear in district
court on or before a specific day or hour named in the citation. The period so
specified shall not be less than 72 hours after its delivery to the violator.
   (E)   Where enforcement personnel determine that a violation is a first
offense for the person charged, a written letter or warning citation shall be
issued. Such warning letter or warning citation shall state therein the nature
of the violation, the corrective measures to be taken, and the time and date
when corrections are to be completed. Failure to comply with the corrective
measures stated in such warning notices shall be just cause for enforcement
personnel to issue a citation for violation of this chapter.
   (F)   The Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department shall cause all
citation forms to be serially numbered and accounted for. The Finance Director
or his or her representative may periodically inspect these records to
determine the disposition of the forms and shall report the result of such
inspection to the County Manager. For the purpose of this inspection, the
Finance Director shall have access to all necessary records and files.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)   Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24  INSPECTION.
    Inspections of abandoned and dilapidated manufactured homes shall conform
to regulations set forth in the duties and responsibilities of the Planning/
Zoning and Code Enforcement Department to research and investigate complaints
on abandoned and dilapidated manufactured homes.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.25  DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)    Every owner shall periodically inspect all buildings and premises
that are owned by them and intended for human habitation or human use, to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Every occupant or tenant of a building for human habitation or human
use shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent at all reasonable hour's
access for the purpose of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   For the purpose of making inspections, upon determination of a
potential violation by an enforcement officer as defined in this chapter, a
code enforcement officer is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey for
human habitation or human use, at all reasonable times, all unoccupied
buildings and premises outwardly appearing to come within the definition herein
of abandoned manufactured home.
   (D)   When permission to inspect a dwelling or its premises is denied, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall obtain a warrant to inspect, as G.S. § 153A-121
(a) grants police powers to the county. Further, where a non-owner tenant-
occupant grants permission to inspect, no warrant shall be required, pursuant
to In Re Dwelling, 24 N.C. App. 17 (consent of the tenant-occupant in actual
possession and control of the premises is sufficient to authorize an inspection
without a warrant, notwithstanding the fact that the owner has objected to the
warrantless search). When faced with a situation where permission to inspect is
denied, Code Enforcement Officers are advised to seek the advice of the County
Attorney, prior to seeking a warrant to inspect.
   (E)   Additionally, a representative from the Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department may inspect properties at the request of the property
owner(s) for the purpose of applying for assistance to voluntarily remove an
abandoned or dilapidated manufactured home.
   (F)   Code Enforcement Officers shall perform a site inspection to verify
the status of a manufactured home. If the inspection reveals that the criteria
of an abandoned or dilapidated manufactured home are present, the home will be
declared as such.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.26  DEMOLITION CONTRACTORS.
    To ensure proper demolition, removal, and recycling methods are taken, only
(approved licensed) demolition contractors are eligible to provide
deconstruction services. To minimize damage to surrounding property during
deconstruction, only the approved and bonded demolition contractors with a
county demolition permit will be eligible to remove and recycle debris under
this program.  Contractors are approved based on the ability to perform
required deconstruction requirements.  Approved demolition contractors must
have the ability to deconstruct the abandoned manufactured home on-site or at
designated deconstruction sites. All hazardous materials must be removed from
the structure prior to deconstruction. Any such materials must be properly
removed from the demolition site and transported to a demolition center
licensed to receive such materials.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.27  STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)    Approved demolition contractors operate under a scope of services
agreement. The following guidelines are set forth by the county to serve as
standard operating procedures for the demolition and recycling of abandoned or
dilapidated manufactured homes. Contractors must agree to the terms and
procedures specified within the agreement prior to performance of any services
that may be assigned by the Public Works Department or Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department.
   (B)   Should a property owner be unable to provide for the cost of
demolition and removal, the property owner may petition the county to provide
or assist in providing services. The county reserves the right to determine the
number of manufactured housing units to be abated on a given parcel and
services provided will be contingent upon available funding provided to the
county through the North Carolina Solid Waste Trust Fund.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.28  NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Generally. The Public Works Department or Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department will notify all interested authorized and bonded
contractors of the bidding process for the demolition, removal, and recycling
of abandoned manufactured homes. Contractors may be notified through United
States Postal Service mail, electronic mail or fax for a request to submit
bids. Contractors will be notified of the property location, ownership, and
contact information and may contact the property owner(s) in order to obtain
information necessary to submit a bid for the demolition, removal, and
recycling of the manufactured home. The Public Works Department or Planning/
Zoning and Code Enforcement Department will accept bids by authorized
contractors that are received through United States Postal Service mail,
electronic mail or fax. The contractor awarded the project will be notified by
telephone or United States Postal Service mail by an authorized agent of the
county.
   (B)   Site survey for voluntary demolitions. Before being awarded a
contract, the contractor must provide proof of bonding to the county. Once the
contractor is awarded the project, the contractor must notify the property
owner(s) prior to the demolition, removal, and recycling of the abandoned
manufactured home. A site survey must be conducted with the property owner(s)
present to identify any utility connections including marking the placement of
a septic tank and/or septic field. The property owner(s) is responsible for
ensuring that all utility connections are disconnected and notifying the
contractor when such measures have been taken. The contractor must be notified
by the property owner(s) of any possible hazards. The contractor may not access
the property through an adjoining property without proper consent from that
adjoining property owner.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
INVOLUNTARY DEMOLITIONS
§ 153.40  PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; NOTICE; HEARING.
    When a petition is filed with the Public Works Director, Planning and
Zoning Administrator or a code enforcement officer by an enforcement officer as
defined in this chapter or by at least five residents of the county charging
that any manufactured home for human habitation or use, or whenever it appears
to an enforcement officer as defined in this chapter, upon inspection, that any
manufactured home for human habitation or use, is unfit for human habitation he
or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties of
interest in such manufactured home a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Planning and Zoning
Administrator at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall
have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons
signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend such hearing and give evidence relevant in courts of law or equity. The
North Carolina Rules of Evidence shall not be controlling in hearings before
the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.41  PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING.
    After such notice and hearing, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall
state in writing his or her determination whether the manufactured home is
unfit for human habitation or use, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or is
dilapidated.
   (A)   Deteriorated. If the Planning and Zoning Administrator determines that
the manufactured home is deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or
her findings of fact in support of such determination, and shall issue and
cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the
owner to repair, alter, improve or otherwise abate such home to comply with the
minimum standard of fitness established by this chapter within a specified
period of time, not to exceed 120 days. The order may also direct and require
the owner to vacate and close such home until such repairs, alterations, and
improvements or corrections have been made.
   (B)   Dilapidated. If the Planning and Zoning Administrator determines that
the manufactured home is dilapidated, he or she shall state in writing his or
her finding of fact to support such determination, and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner
either to repair, alter, improve or otherwise abate such conditions as to
comply with the minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter, or
else to vacate and remove or demolish the same within a specified period of
time not to exceed 120 days.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.42  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
    If an abandoned or dilapidated manufactured home is not removed, abated or
remedied during the time frame provided by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator, an in personam or in rem remedy may be carried out according to
this chapter and the powers and duties of the Director of Public Works,
Planning and Zoning Administrator, Code Enforcement Officers, Environmental
Health Department Director and/or County Sheriff's Deputies. As authorized by
G.S. § 153A-140 and this chapter, the county may enter the property and remove,
abate or remedy everything related to the abandoned manufactured home that is
dangerous or prejudicial to public health, safety, or welfare, cost of which
shall constitute and be filed as a valid lien, in favor of the county, against
the real property upon which such expense was incurred.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.43  ABATEMENT PROCESS.
    Once the contractor is awarded the project, the contractor must notify the
Public Works Director and Planning and Zoning Administrator prior to the
demolition, removal, and recycling of the abandoned manufactured home. A site
survey must be conducted with the Planning and Zoning Administrator, Code
Enforcement Officer, and Environmental Health Director present to identify any
utility connections including marking the placement of a septic tank and/or
septic field.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.44  DECONSTRUCTION.
   (A)    The following shall apply to abandoned manufactured homes, whether
completely intact or partially deconstructed:
      (1)   The contractor shall attempt to remove any recyclable materials
from the abandoned manufactured home prior to demolition. Recyclable materials
may include but are not limited to: metal, glass, wood, plastics, and
thermostats containing mercury switches.
      (2)   The contractor shall deconstruct the home in a manner to minimize
airborne debris.
      (3)   The demolition debris shall be contained on-site in a manner that
would not cause any adverse effects or injury to adjoining properties.
      (4)   All materials must be delivered to a certified landfill or
recycling center.
   (B)   The deconstruction contractor will bring the landfill receipt(s) to
the Public Works Department upon completion. The deconstruction process shall
be carried out in a manner as to cause the least amount of disturbance or least
amount of damage to the subject property. Any adverse effects or injury to
adjoining properties caused by the contractor's failure to contain the
demolition debris shall be the sole responsibility of the contractor and not
the county.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.45  REMOVAL.
    All demolition debris shall be removed from the site, by the demolition
contractor, on a vehicle capable of safely transporting materials from the
demolition site to a certified landfill or recycling center. During
transportation, all debris must remain covered with a tarp or fabric and shall
be properly secured, so as not to allow any debris to fall from the vehicle.
All debris from any of the deconstructed components must be removed from the
property.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.46  LOT CONDITION.
    The demolition contractors are required to level, compact, or fill any
portion of the property that is affected by the deconstruction and removal of
debris. The contractor shall take all measures possible to minimize any
unnecessary disturbance of soil or vegetation on the property. The contractor
is required to remove and replace any contaminated soil that results from the
spillage of any fluids or hazardous materials from equipment associated with
performing the demolition or removal of debris.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.47  LIABILITY.
    The demolition contractor shall provide and maintain a level of insurance
that will cover any and all damage or injuries that may occur to property or
persons while performing the service of demolition and removal of the abandoned
manufactured home. The county shall be identified in a hold harmless agreement
and contractor's proof of insurance provided to the county shall show the
county has been added to the policy as an additional insured. The contractor is
responsible for any and all damage which may occur to the property that is
outside the specified area of demolition. Neither the demolition contractor nor
any of the demolition contractor's employees are agents or employees of the
county. The county shall not be held liable for any actions or damage that may
occur as a result of the demolition and removal of an abandoned manufactured
home.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.48  CONFLICT OF LAW.
    Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of G.S. Ch. 160D or any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules,
regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive or those imposing higher
standards shall govern.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.49  ADDITIONAL POWERS TO LIMIT NUISANCES.
    Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 153A-123 and the effective
date this chapter, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.50  EXCLUSION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Per G.S. § 160D-910, the county may not exclude manufactured homes from its
entire zoning jurisdiction based on the age of the home.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. The county may assess a civil penalty for each
abandoned manufactured home of $50 for first offense violations of this
chapter, $100 for the second offense, and $50 for each subsequent offense,
which amount may be recovered by the county in a civil action in the nature of
a debt. Each day in which the violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense. No civil penalty shall be assessed prior to notice of
violation by citation or letter.
   (B)   Injunction and order of abatement. The provisions of this chapter may
be enforced by injunction and order of abatement.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Any person violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine for
each abandoned manufactured home of not more than $50 for the first offense,
$100 for the second offense, and $50 for each subsequent offense, or
imprisonment up to 30 days. Each day in which the violation occurs or continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Additional penalties. Procedures set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to any other remedies that may exist under law or other ordinance for
the abatement of public nuisances or for the removal of abandoned manufactured
homes.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
CHAPTER 154:  HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
Historic Preservation Commission
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Membership and vacancies
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   General powers and duties
   
154.005   Basic studies
   
154.006   Miscellaneous powers and duties
   
154.007   Annual report
Historic Landmarks
   
154.015   Adoption of a designation resolution
   
154.016   Criteria for designation
   
154.017   Inventory
   
154.018   Required procedures for designation
   
154.019   Submittal of application
   
154.020   Contents of application
   
154.021   Designation reports
   
154.022   Review guidelines
   
154.023   Review by state authority
   
154.024   Consideration of the report
   
154.025   Submission to the Board of Commissioners
   
154.026   Public hearing
   
154.027   Adoption of a designation resolution
   
154.028   Actions subsequent to approval
   
154.029   Denied applications
Historic Districts
   
154.040   Adoption of a designation resolution
   
154.041   Criteria for designation
   
154.042   Inventory
   
154.043   Required procedures for designation
Certificate of Appropriateness; Rules and Regulations
   
154.055   Development restriction
   
154.056   Exterior features
   
154.057   Building permit restriction
   
154.058   Protection of character
   
154.059   Review guidelines
   
154.060   Administrative approval for minor works allowed
   
154.061   Limitations on interior review
   
154.062   Certain changes not prohibited
   
154.063   Delay in demolition of designated properties
   
154.064   Demolition by neglect
Required Procedures
   
154.075   Submittal of application
   
154.076   Contents of application
   
154.077   Notification of affected property owners
   
154.078   Public hearing
   
154.079   Reasons for HPC’s actions to appear in minutes
   
154.080   HPC action on application
   
154.081   Time limits
   
154.082   Submission of new application
   
154.083   Appeals of the HPC’s decision
   
154.084   Publicly owned buildings and structures
   
154.085   Remedies
   
154.086   Conflict of law
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 154.001  PURPOSE.
   (A)    The purpose of this chapter, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-940, is to
establish a Warren County Historic Preservation Commission, pursuant to G.S. §§
160D-303 and 160D-941 in support and furtherance of its findings and
determination of the county that the historical, cultural and aesthetic
heritage of the county is among its most valued and important assets and that
the preservation of this heritage is essential to the promotion of the health,
prosperity and general welfare of the people.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby declares it to be the purpose and
intent of this chapter to establish a Historic Preservation Commission to
establish a uniform procedure for use in providing for the protection,
enhancement, perpetuation and use of places, districts, sites, buildings,
structures, objects, and landscape features having a special historical,
cultural or aesthetic interest or value, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   It is further the purpose of this chapter that the Historic
Preservation Commission's jurisdiction for its activities shall coincide with
the county’s zoning boundaries as delineated and shown on the official zoning
map for Warren County, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-944, and to the un-zoned areas
of Warren County for historic landmarks and properties (not inclusive of the
Towns of Norlina, Warrenton and their respective extraterritorial
jurisdictions).
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.002  MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) shall consist of eight
members (seven voting members including the HPC Chair and one County
Commissioner as a non-voting liaison between the HPC and Board of
Commissioners). All members shall be residents of the county and shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners. For the initial appointments to the
Commission, two of the members shall be appointed for a term of one year, two
members shall be appointed for a term of two years and three members shall be
appointed for a term of three years. Their successors shall be appointed to
three-year terms.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful
attendance at the meetings of the Commission and conscientious performance of
duties required of the members of the Commission shall be considered a
prerequisite for continued membership on the Commission. All members shall be
persons who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in
history, architecture or the preservation of historic resources.
   (C)   To the extent available in the county, at least three members shall be
appointed from among professions in the disciplines of architecture, history,
architectural history, planning, archaeology or related professions. Members
shall not receive a salary, but may be reimbursed for expenses.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as
a house, barn, church, hotel or similar structure (may refer to a historically
related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn).
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. Document evidencing approval by the Historic
Preservation Commission of an application to make a material change in the
appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a
designated historic district.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. The architectural style, general design and
general arrangement of the exterior of a building, structure or object,
including but not limited to the kind or texture of the building material and
the type and style of all windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant
architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the
foregoing.
   EXTERIOR ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES. All aspects of the landscape or the
development of a site which affect the historic character of the property.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-944, a geographically definable
area, possessing a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites,
buildings, structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan
or physical development. A HISTORIC DISTRICT may also comprise individual
elements separated geographically but linked by association or history. A
HISTORIC DISTRICT shall further mean an area designated by the Board of
Commissioners as a HISTORIC DISTRICT pursuant to the criteria established in
this chapter.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY/LANDMARK. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-945, an individual
building, structure, site, or object including the adjacent area necessary for
the proper appreciation thereof designated by the Board of Commissioners as a
historic property pursuant to the criteria established in this chapter.
   MATERIAL CHANGE IN APPEARANCE. A change that will affect either the exterior
architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any building,
structure, site, object, or landscape feature within a historic district, such
as:
      (1)   Reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or façade of a
historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or
alteration of any architectural features, details or elements;
      (2)   Demolition or relocation of a historic structure;
      (3)   Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
      (4)   Change in the location of advertising visible from the public
right-of-way; or
      (5)   The erection, alteration, restoration or removal or any buildings
or other structure within a historic property or district, including walls,
fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features, except exterior
paint alterations.
   OBJECT. A material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or
scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a
specific setting or environment.
   SITE. Location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historical
occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined,
or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archaeological
value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
   STRUCTURE. Work made up of interdependent and interrelated parts in a
definite pattern of organization. Constructed by man, it is often an
engineering project large in scale.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.004  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission is established under G.S. §§
160D-303 and  160D-941 and, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-942, may within the
jurisdiction of the county (not inclusive of the Town of Warrenton and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction):
      (1)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance;
      (2)   Recommend to the governing board areas to be designated by
ordinance as historic districts and individual structures, buildings, sites,
areas, or objects to be designated by ordinance as landmarks;
      (3)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included
interest, including options to purchase, to properties within established
districts or to any such properties designated as landmarks to hold, manage,
preserve, restore, and improve such properties, and to exchange or dispose of
the property by public or private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to
covenants or other legally binding restrictions that will secure appropriate
rights of public access and promote the preservation of the property;
      (4)   Restore, preserve, and operate historic properties;
      (5)   Recommend to the governing board that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for cause;
      (6)   Conduct an educational program regarding historic properties and
districts within its jurisdiction;
      (7)   Cooperate with the state, federal, and local governments in
pursuance of the purposes of this subchapter. The governing board or the
Commission, when authorized by the governing board, may contract with the
state, or the United States of America, or any agency of either, or with any
other organization provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or
federal law;
      (8)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee, or agent of the commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof;
      (9)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation
element as part of the local government's comprehensive plan;
      (10)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions, or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks, pursuant to this subchapter;
      (11)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area, or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary or appropriate.
   (B)   The performance of these duties must be in compliance with powers and
duties outlined under G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 9, particularly the following:
      (1)   G.S. § 160D-942, Powers of the Historic Preservation Commission;
      (2)   G.S. §§ 160D-102 and 160D-947, Certificate of appropriateness
required. Appeals of decisions on certificates of appropriateness for historic
landmarks and historic districts may be made to the Superior Court of Warren
County as provided in G.S. § 160D-1402;
      (3)   G.S. § 160D-951, Conflict with other laws;
      (4)   G.S. § 160D-404(c), Remedies;
      (5)   G.S. § 160D-406, Quasi-judicial procedure;
      (6)   G.S. § 160D-943, Appropriations;
      (7)   G.S. § 160D-948, Certain changes not prohibited;
      (8)   G.S. § 160D-949, Delay in demolition of landmarks and buildings
within historic district;
      (9)   G.S. § 160D-1405, Statutes of limitation. Appeal of certificates of
appropriateness must be filed within 30 days after the decision is effective or
written notice is provided.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.005  BASIC STUDIES.
   (A)   As background for its work and any ordinances/documents it may
prepare, the Historic Preservation Commission may gather maps and aerial
photographs of man-made or natural physical features of the area, statistics on
past trends and present conditions with respect to population, property values,
the economic base of the community, land use, and such other information as is
important or likely to be important in determining the needs, resources, and
implantation of policies to meet the intent of this chapter and its functions.
   (B)   In addition, the Commission may make, cause to be made or obtain
special studies on the location, condition, and adequacy of specific
facilities, which may include but are not limited to studies of housing,
commercial and industrial facilities, public and private utilities; and
traffic, transportation and parking facilities. All county officials shall,
upon request, furnish to the Commission such available records or information
as it may require in its work. The Commission or its agents may, in the
performance of its official duties, enter upon lands and make examinations or
surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.006  MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission may conduct such public hearings
as may be required or desired to gather information necessary for the drafting,
establishment and maintenance of the documents and ordinances related to or
developed for historic preservation in the county.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall have power to promote
public interest in and an understanding of its recommendations, and to that
end, it may publish and distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ
such other means of publicity and education as it may determine.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.007  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall submit a written summary of its
activities to the Board of Commissioners once a year.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
HISTORIC LANDMARKS
§ 154.015  ADOPTION OF A DESIGNATION RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Upon compliance with the procedures set out in §
154.018, the Board of Commissioners may adopt and, quarterly, amend or repeal a
designation resolution of one or more historic landmarks.
   (B)   The designation resolution shall include information which shall:
      (1)   List the name(s) of the owner(s) of the property;
      (2)   Describe each property in the designation resolution, including the
approximate area (size) of the property so designated;
      (3)   Describe those elements of the property that are integral to its
historical, pre-historical, architectural, archaeological, and/or cultural
significance;
      (4)   Provide for each designated historic landmark, a suitable sign or
plaque indicating that the landmark has been so designated; and
      (5)   Any other information the HPC and/or Board of Commissioners deems
necessary within the authority of this chapter and the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.016  CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.
   In order for any building, structure, site, area, or object to be designated
in a resolution as a historic landmark, the HPC must find that the property is
of special significance in terms of its history, prehistory, architecture,
archaeology, and/or cultural importance, and that it possesses integrity of
design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling, and/or association.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.017  INVENTORY.
   The HPC shall use an inventory of buildings, structures, sites, areas, or
objects of historical, pre-historical, architectural, and archaeological
significance in the county as a guide to the identification, assessment, and
designation of historic landmarks. The HPC shall update the inventory annually.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.018  REQUIRED PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Commissioners may not adopt or amend a resolution, designating
a historic building, structure, site, area, or object, or acquire any landmark,
until the steps prescribed by this chapter and its sections have been taken,
including rules of procedure and guidelines for the altering, restoring,
moving, or demolishing properties designated as historic. Designation
procedures may be initiated by the HPC or at the request of property owner(s)
or his or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.019  SUBMITTAL OF APPLICATION.
   An application for a designation shall be obtained from and, when completed,
filed with the Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department. Applications
for designation shall be considered by the HPC at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, provided they have been filed, complete in form and content, at least
15 working days before the meeting; otherwise consideration shall be deferred
until the following meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.020  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   The HPC shall, by uniform rule in its bylaws and rules of procedure, require
information as is reasonably necessary to determine the nature of the
application. An application for a designation shall not be considered complete
until the required information is included. An incomplete application shall not
be accepted. Nothing shall prevent the applicant(s) from filing with the
application additional relevant information bearing on the application.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.021  DESIGNATION REPORTS.
   (A)   The HPC shall make, or cause to be made, an investigation and report
that includes all the information contained in this section.
   (B)   Applications prepared by property owner(s) will be judged by the same
criteria as those prepared by the HPC:
      (1)   The name(s) of the property to be considered for designation; both
common and historic names, if they can be determined;
      (2)   The name(s) and address of the current property owner(s);
      (3)   The location of the property proposed to be designated historic,
including the street address, county tax map and parcel numbers, and/or the
parcel identification number;
      (4)   The date of construction and of any later alterations, if any, if
they can be determined;
      (5)   An assessment of the significance of the site or structure pursuant
to the section on criteria for designation;
      (6)   An architectural and/or archaeological description of the area of
the site or structure proposed to be designated. If outbuildings or other
appurtenant features are proposed to be designated, the report shall contain a
description of those features;
      (7)   A historical discussion of the site or structure within its type,
period, and locality;
      (8)   A photograph, current and historic if available, that clearly
depicts the property proposed to be designated and supplementary photographs
showing facades, details, and site layout; and
      (9)   A map showing the location of the property, including any
outbuildings and appurtenant features.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.022  REVIEW GUIDELINES.
   Prior to the designation of any historic landmark or district, the HPC shall
prepare and adopt guidelines, not inconsistent with the state’s general
statutes for altering, restoring, moving, or demolishing of property designated
as historic. It is the intention of these guidelines to ensure, insofar as
possible, that changes in designated landmarks or properties located within
designated districts shall be in harmony with the reasons for designation.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.023  REVIEW BY STATE AUTHORITY.
   A report accepted by the HPC shall be submitted to the NCDCR, Division of
Archives and History or its successor agency, for comments pursuant to the
state’s general statutes, as amended from time to time. The NCDCR, Division of
Archives and History or its successor agency, acting through the State Historic
Preservation Officer, shall, either at its own request or at the initiative of
the HPC, be given an opportunity to review and comment upon the substance and
effect of the designation of any landmark pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.024  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT.
   (A)   Once the designation report has been prepared, either by the HPC or by
the property owner(s), and is deemed by the Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department to meet the provisions of §
154.019, the HPC shall consider the report. The HPC may accept it, amend it,
reject it, or recommend further study. Prior to final action on a designation
report, the HPC shall indicate the extent to which the landmark meets the
criteria for designation in §
154.041. The HPC should consider any comments received in writing from the
NCDCR, Division of Archives and History or its successor agency.
   (B)   If the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History does not submit its
written comments or recommendations in connection with any proposed designation
within 30 days following receipt of the report, the HPC and Board of
Commissioners shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider such
comments.
   (C)   After the expiration of the 30-day comment period given the NCDCR,
Division of Archives and History, the HPC may recommend to the Board of
Commissioners that the property be designated as a historic landmark.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.025  SUBMISSION TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The HPC shall forward its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners and
shall submit a copy of the designation report, any written comments received
from the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History, and, if the recommendation is
for approval, a proposed designation resolution, to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.026  PUBLIC HEARING.
   When a proposed designation resolution is submitted, the HPC and the Board
of Commissioners shall hold a joint public hearing or separate public hearings
on the proposed designation resolution. The HPC shall send a notification
letter, including time and place, to property owners adjacent to the subject
property. It is recommended, but not required, that the HPC also post a
notification sign on the subject property and publish notice in a local
periodical.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.027  ADOPTION OF A DESIGNATION RESOLUTION.
   Following the required public hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall
consider the designation report, the HPC’s recommendation, the NCDCR, Division
of Archives and History’s comments, and the comments made at the public
hearing, and may adopt the designation resolution as proposed, adopt it with
amendments, or reject the resolution.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.028  ACTIONS SUBSEQUENT TO APPROVAL.
   Upon adoption of the resolution:
   (A)   Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department shall send the owner
(s) of the landmark, as identified by current tax records, written notice of
such designation of adoption of the resolution by certified mail, return
receipt requested;
   (B)   The HPC shall file one copy of the resolution and any subsequent
amendments thereto, in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds. The
Register of Deeds shall index each historic landmark according to the name of
the owner(s) in the grantee and grantor indexes;
   (C)   All tax maps and applicable geographic information systems (GIS)
maintained by the county shall clearly indicate the designation of a building,
structure, site, area, or object as a historic landmark for as long as the
designation remains in effect; and
   (D)   The Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department shall notify the
Tax Assessor of the county of the landmark designation. The Assessor shall
consider the designation and any recorded restriction on the landmark in
appraising it for tax purposes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.029  DENIED APPLICATIONS.
   If the Board of Commissioners denies a designation report, a copy of the
minutes of the public hearing at which such a decision to deny the report was
made, shall be mailed to the owner(s) of the property proposed for designation,
as requested.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
HISTORIC DISTRICTS
§ 154.040  ADOPTION OF A DESIGNATION RESOLUTION.
   No historic district may exist without a resolution designating it as such.
Upon compliance with the procedures contained in §
154.018, the Board of Commissioners within its jurisdiction may adopt and,
quarterly, amend or repeal a resolution designating one or more historic
districts.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.041  CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.
   In order for any area to be designated in a resolution as a historic
district, the HPC must find that the area is of special significance in terms
of its history, prehistory, architecture, archaeology, and/or cultural
importance, and that it possesses integrity of design, setting, workmanship,
materials, feeling, and/or association.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.042  INVENTORY.
   The HPC shall use an inventory of buildings, structures, sites, areas, or
objects of historical, pre-historical, architectural, and archaeological
significance in the county as a guide for the identification, assessment, and
designation of historic districts. The HPC shall update the inventory annually.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.043  REQUIRED PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Commissioners may not adopt or amend a resolution designating a
historic district, nor may the Board of Commissioners or the HPC accept any
district until the steps prescribed by this section have been taken.
   (A)   Designation report. The HPC shall prepare or review an investigation
and report describing the significance of the buildings, structure, features,
sites, or surroundings included in any such proposed district, and the
description of the boundaries of such district. Such report shall be referred
to the Board of Commissioners and the Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement
Department for its review and comment according to procedures set forth in the
county zoning ordinance (for the zoned parts of the county, as applicable).
   (B)   Review by the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History and State
Historic Preservation Office. All designation reports shall be submitted to the
NCDCR, Division of Archives and History by the HPC. The NCDCR, Division of
Archives and History or its successor agency, acting through the State Historic
Preservation Officer, shall, either upon their own request or at the initiative
of the HPC, be given an opportunity to review and comment upon the substance
and effect of the designation of any district. If the NCDCR, Division of
Archives and History does not submit its written comments or recommendations in
connection with any proposed designation within 30 days following receipt of
the report, the HPC and the Board of Commissioners shall be relieved of any
responsibility to consider such comments. After the expiration of the 30-day
comment period given to the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History, the HPC
may recommend to the Board of Commissioners that the area be designated as a
historic district.
   (C)   Review by other groups. The Board of Commissioners may also, in its
discretion, refer the designation report and proposed boundaries to any local
preservation commission or other interested body for its recommendations prior
to taking action to adopt or amend the designation resolution.
   (D)   Adoption of a designation resolution. On receipt of these reports and
recommendations, the Board of Commissioners may proceed in the same manner as
would otherwise be required for the adoption or amendment of any appropriate
zoning ordinance provisions.
   (E)   Revisions to districts. With respect to any changes in the boundaries
of an adopted historic district subsequent to its initial establishment, the
requirements and procedures contained in this section shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS; RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 154.055  DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTION.
   From and after the designation of a historic landmark or district, no
exterior portion of any building or other structure (including masonry walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features), nor
above-ground utility structure, nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall
be erected, altered, restored, moved, or demolished on such landmark or within
such district until after an application for a certificate of appropriateness
(COA) as to exterior features has been submitted to and approved by the HPC. A
certificate of appropriateness (COA) shall be required whether or not a
building permit is required.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.056  EXTERIOR FEATURES.
   For purposes of this chapter, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall include the
architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of
a building or other structure, including the kind and texture of the building
material, the size and scale of the building or other structure, and the type
and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant
fixtures. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall
mean the style, material, size, and location of all such signs. In adopting a
resolution establishing a historic district, the Board of Commissioners may
provide that EXTERIOR FEATURES also include historic signs, color, and
significant landscape, archaeological, and natural features of the area.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.057  BUILDING PERMIT RESTRICTION.
   In adopting a resolution establishing a historic district, the county shall
provide that no building permit or other permit granted for the purposes of
constructing, altering, moving, or demolishing structures shall be issued
unless the HPC has first issued a certificate of appropriateness (COA)
authorizing the construction, alteration, moving, restoration, or demolition.
Any building permit or such other permit not issued in conformity with this
section shall be invalid. In approving a certificate of appropriateness (COA),
the HPC may attach reasonable conditions necessary to carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.058  PROTECTION OF CHARACTER.
   The HPC shall take no action under this section except to prevent the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving, or demolition of
buildings, structures, appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising signs, or
other significant features which would be incongruous with the special
character of the landmark or district.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.059  REVIEW GUIDELINES.
   The HPC shall review the established guidelines prepared during the
designation resolution process for the subject property. It is the intention of
these guidelines to ensure, insofar as possible, that changes in designated
landmarks or properties located within designated districts shall be in harmony
with the reasons for designation.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.060  ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL FOR MINOR WORKS ALLOWED.
   The Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department may issue a certificate
of appropriateness (COA) for minor works, as listed in the HPC’s rules of
procedure/bylaws. MINOR WORKS shall include and are defined as those exterior
changes that do not involve substantial alterations, additions, or removals
that could impair the integrity of the property and/or district as a whole. No
application for a minor works certificate of appropriateness (COA) may be
denied without formal action by the HPC.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.061  LIMITATIONS ON INTERIOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Notwithstanding this chapter, jurisdiction of the HPC over interior
spaces shall be limited to specific interior features of architectural,
artistic, or historical significance in publicly owned landmarks, and of
privately owned historic landmarks for which consent for interior review has
been given by the owner(s).
   (B)   If an owner’s consent for interior review has been filed with the
county’s Register of Deeds and indexed according to the name of the owner(s) of
the property in the grantee and grantor indexes, such consent shall bind future
owners and/or successors in title. The designation resolution establishing the
historic designation shall specify the interior features to be reviewed and the
specific nature of the HPC’s jurisdiction over those features.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.062  CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature of a historic
landmark or property located within a district that does not involve a change
in design, material, or outer appearance thereof. Nor shall this chapter be
construed to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration,
moving, or demolition of any such feature when a building inspector or similar
county official certifies to the HPC that such action is required for the
public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall
be construed to prevent the property owner(s) from making any use of his or her
property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances, or regulations. Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the maintenance of or, in the
event of an emergency, immediate restoration of any existing above ground
utility structure without approval by the HPC.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.063  DELAY IN DEMOLITION OF DESIGNATED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided below, the HPC may not deny an application
for certificate of appropriateness (COA) authorizing the demolition of a
designated historic landmark or property located within a district. However,
the HPC may delay the effective date of such a certificate for a period of up
to one year from the date of approval. The HPC may reduce the period of delay
where it finds that the owner(s) would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return from such property by
virtue of the delay.
      (2)   During such period, the HPC may negotiate with the owner and with
any other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the property, as
provided in the “powers and duties” of the Historic Preservation Commission
ordinance and bylaws.
      (3)   The HPC may deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness (COA) authorizing the demolition or destruction of a building,
site, or structure determined by the State Historic Preservation Office to have
statewide significance, as defined in the criteria of the National Register of
Historic Places, unless the HPC finds that the owner(s) would suffer extreme
hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue
of the denial.
   (B)   (1)   If the HPC has voted to recommend designation of a property as a
landmark or designation of an area as a district, and final designation has not
been made by the Board of Commissioners, the demolition or destruction of any
building, site, or structure located on the property of the proposed landmark
or in the proposed district may be delayed by the HPC for a period of up to 180
days or until the Board of Commissioners takes action on the designation,
whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Should the Board of Commissioners approve the designation prior to
the expiration of the 180-day delay period, an application for a certificate of
appropriateness (COA) for demolition must then be filed; however, the maximum
delay period of one year shall be reduced by the period of delay while the
designation was pending.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.064  DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   Demolition by neglect of any designated historic landmark or property
located within a district shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners and/or HPC with the expressed consent of
the Board of Commissioners may take appropriate actions to prevent demolition
by neglect, provided such actions include appropriate safeguards to protect the
property owner(s) from undue economic hardship.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
REQUIRED PROCEDURES
§ 154.075  SUBMITTAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness (COA) shall be
obtained from and, when completed, filed with the Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department.
   (B)   Applications for certificates of appropriateness (COA) shall be
considered by the HPC at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided they
have been filed, complete in form and content, at least 15 working days before
the meeting; otherwise consideration shall be deferred until the following
meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.076  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The HPC shall, by uniform rule in its rules of procedure/bylaws,
require information as is reasonably necessary to determine the nature of the
application. An application for a certificate of appropriateness (COA) shall
not be considered complete until the required information is included. An
incomplete application shall not be accepted.
   (B)   Nothing shall prevent the applicant(s) from filing with the
application additional relevant information bearing on the application.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.077  NOTIFICATION OF AFFECTED PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before considering an application for a certificate of appropriateness
(COA), the HPC shall notify by mail the owner(s) of any adjacent property.
   (B)   The mailed notices are for the convenience of the property owner(s)
and occupant(s) and any defect or omission therein shall not impair the
validity of issuing a certificate of appropriateness (COA), or any following
action.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.078  PUBLIC HEARING.
   When considering an application, the HPC shall give the applicant(s) and
stakeholder(s) of any property likely to be materially affected by the
application, an opportunity to be heard at a public hearing.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.079  REASONS FOR HPC’S ACTIONS TO APPEAR IN MINUTES.
   The HPC shall cause to be entered into the minutes of its meeting the
reasons for its actions (approval, approval with modifications, deferral, or
denial). The minutes shall also contain a summary of any citation to the
evidence, testimony, studies, or other authority upon which it based its
decision.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.080  HPC ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   When considering the application, the HPC shall apply the review guidelines
required by §
154.086 and shall, before final action on the application, make findings of
fact indicating the extent to which the application is or is not in compliance
with the review criteria. The HPC’s action on the application shall be
approval, approval with modifications, deferral, or disapproval.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.081  TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   If the HPC fails to take final action upon any application within 180
days from the date the complete application is filed with the Planning/Zoning
and Code Enforcement Department, the application shall be deemed to be approved
as submitted. This time period may be extended to an exact date upon mutual
agreement between the HPC and the applicant(s).
   (B)   A certificate of appropriateness (COA) shall expire 180 days after the
date of issuance, or in the case of a demolition certificate of appropriateness
(COA), the effective date, if the work authorized by the certificate has not
been commenced. If the work has been discontinued for a period of one year
after commencement, the certificate shall immediately expire.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.082  SUBMISSION OF NEW APPLICATION.
   If the HPC denies a certificate of appropriateness (COA), a new application
affecting the same property may be submitted only if substantial change is made
in plans for the proposed construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, or moving.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.083  APPEALS OF THE HPC’S DECISION.
   An appeal may be made to the County Board of Adjustment regarding the HPC’s
action in approving or denying any application for a certificate of
appropriateness. Written notice of intent to appeal must be sent to the HPC,
postmarked within 20 days following the HPC’s decision, unless oral notice of
appeal is made to the HPC during the meeting at which the decision is rendered.
Appeals must be filed with the County Board of Commissioners within 60 days
following the Commission’s decision. Appeals shall be in the nature of
certiorari. The Board of Commissioners’ decision in any such case may be
appealed to the county’s Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.084  PUBLICLY OWNED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Designated historic buildings, structures, sites, areas, or objects in the
HPC’s jurisdiction owned by the state or any of its political subdivisions,
agencies, or instrumentalities shall be subject to the regulations imposed by
this chapter, in accordance with the state’s general statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.085  REMEDIES.
   In case any building, structure, site, area, or object designated a historic
landmark or any property located within a historic district is about to be
demolished as the result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially
altered, remodeled, constructed, or removed, except in compliance with this
chapter, the Board of Commissioners, the HPC, or other party aggrieved by such
action may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful demolition, material alteration, remodeling, or removal, to restrain,
correct, or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with
respect to such historic property.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
§ 154.086  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with any other
statute, charter provision, ordinance, or regulation of the county, the more
restrictive ordinance or regulation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-22-2009)
CHAPTER 155:  VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Authority
   
155.03   Purpose
   
155.04   Jurisdiction
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Amendments
   
155.07   Agricultural Advisory Board
   
155.08   Creation of voluntary agricultural districts and enhanced agricultural
districts
   
155.09   Certification and qualifications of farmland
   
155.10   Application, review, and appeal
   
155.11   Revocation, transfer, renewal and enforcement of conservation
agreements
   
155.12   Waiver of water and sewer or all utility assessments
   
155.13   Additional enhanced agricultural district benefits
   
155.14   Public hearings
   
155.15   Notification
   
155.16   Consultation authority
   
155.17   Conflict with other ordinances and statutes
§ 155.01  TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Warren County Voluntary
Agricultural District Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.02  AUTHORITY.
    Pursuant to the authority and provision conferred by G.S. §§ 106-735
through 106-744 and G.S. Ch. 153A, the Board of Commissioners hereby ordains
and enacts into law this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.03  PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter shall be to:
   (A)   Promote agricultural values and the general welfare of the county and
more specifically, increase identity and pride in the agricultural community
and its way of life;
   (B)   Encourage the economic and financial health of agriculture,
horticulture and forestry; and
   (C)   Increase protection from non-farm development and other negative
impacts on properly managed farms.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.04  JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated areas of Warren County.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The Warren County Voluntary Agricultural District Advisory
Board.
   AGRICULTURE or AGRICULTURAL or FARMING. In accordance to G.S. § 106-581.1:
      (1)   The cultivation of soil for production and harvesting of crops,
including but not limited to fruits, vegetables, sod, flowers and ornamental
plants;
      (2)   The planting and production of trees and timber;
      (3)   Dairying and the raising, management, care, and training of
livestock, including horses, bees, poultry, and other animals for individual
and public use, consumption, and marketing;
      (4)   Aquaculture as defined in G.S. § 106-758;
      (5)   The operation, management, conservation, improvement, and
maintenance of a farm and the structures and buildings on the farm, including
building and structure repair, replacement, expansion, and construction
incident to the farming operation;
      (6)   When performed on the farm, AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL, and FARMING
also include the marketing and selling of agricultural products, agri-tourism,
the storage and use of materials for agricultural purposes, packing, treating,
processing, sorting, storage, and other activities performed to add value to
crops, livestock, and agricultural items produced on a farm, and similar
activities incident to the operation of a farm;
      (7)   A public or private grain warehouse or warehouse operation where
grain is held ten days or longer and includes, but is not limited to, all
buildings, elevators, equipment, and warehouses consisting of one or more
warehouse sections and considered a single delivery point with the capability
to receive, load out, weigh, dry, and store grain.
   CONSERVATION AGREEMENT. An agreement, in this case, between the landowner
and the county in which the landowner agrees to prohibit all non-farm uses of
his or her land.
   ENHANCED VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURE DISTRICT (EVAD). A single or group of
approved parcels of land within a predetermined region in which the owner of
that land has voluntarily agreed to only utilize the land for farming for a
ten-year period. This agreement is irrevocable for the ten- year term.
   EX-OFFICIO BOARD MEMBER. A board member serving in a staff or advisory
capacity. Such members do not have voting privileges.
   NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE (NRCS) PLAN. An individualized plan
of action in which farming practices can meet a mutually agreed upon list of
land conservation goals.
   REGION. A predefined area of a county (or the county in its entirety) in
which a group of approved farms participate in a common voluntary agriculture
district.
   VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURE DISTRICT (VAD). A single, or group, of approved
parcels of land within a predetermined region in which the owner of that land
has voluntarily agreed to only utilize the land for farming for a ten-year
period.
   WATER AND SEWER ASSESSMENT. An evaluation done by an approved entity in
which water and sewer utilities could be provided to a landowner.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.06  AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.07  AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. The Board of Commissioners shall establish an Agricultural
Advisory Board to implement the provisions of this program.
   (B)   Membership. The Advisory Board shall consist of no less than seven
members appointed by the Board of Commissioners. Membership requirements shall
include:
      (1)   Advisory Board members, except those serving in an ex officio
capacity, shall be a Warren County resident or landowner. The Advisory Board
shall also have one representative that is employed by the Warren County Soil &
Water Conservation District.
      (2)   All of the members shall be actively engaged in agriculture as
defined in G.S. § 106-581.1. This determination shall be made without reference
to ex officio members.
      (3)   The county is being treated as one ag district, but every effort
should be made to ensure geographic diversity among members in compliance with
§§ 106-738 and 106-743.1.
      (4)   The members actively engaged in agriculture as defined in G.S. §
106-581.1, as well as other members, shall be selected for appointment by the
Board of Commissioners from the names of individuals submitted to the Board of
Commissioners by the Soil and Water Conservation District Board of Supervisors,
the County Office of North Carolina Cooperative Extension, the U.S. Farm
Service Agency County Committee, nonprofit agricultural organizations,
conservation organizations, agribusiness, horticultural businesses, forestry
businesses, and the public at large.
   (C)   Tenure. The initial Board is to consist of two appointees for terms of
one year; two appointees for terms of two years; and three appointees for terms
of three years. Thereafter, all appointments are to be for terms of three
years, with reappointment permitted subject to the requirements of Warren
County’s Policy for Board and Committee Appointments and/or Reappointments and
Board and Committee Activities.
   (D)   Vacancies. Any vacancy on the Advisory Board is to be filled by the
Board of Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Removal. Any member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Board
of Commissioners upon a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners. No cause for
removal shall be required.
   (F)   Funding. The per diem compensation, if any, of the members of the
Advisory Board may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners and funds may be
appropriated to the Advisory Board to perform its duties.
   (G)   Election of officers. The Advisory Board shall elect a chairperson and
vice-chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The
chairperson shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Advisory
Board. In the absence or disability of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson
shall preside and shall exercise all the powers of the chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
   (H)   Advisory Board procedure. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of
procedure consistent with this chapter or with other provisions of county or
state law.
   (I)   Meetings. Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held at the call of
the chairperson and at such other times as the Advisory Board may specify in
its rules of procedure or upon the request of at least a majority of the
Advisory Board Membership. A meeting shall be held at least annually and notice
of any meetings to the members shall be in writing, unless otherwise agreed to
by all Advisory Board members. Meeting dates and times shall be posted as far
in advance as possible as required by county open meeting regulations. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
   (J)   Majority vote and quorum requirement. All issues shall be decided by a
majority vote of the members of the Advisory Board present, except as otherwise
stated herein. A quorum is defined as a majority of the members in attendance.
No business may be conducted by the Advisory Board without a quorum present.
   (K)   Records. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact. The Advisory Board shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the
office of the Advisory Board, or its designee, and shall be a public record.
All records are public records open to the public.
   (L)   Advisory Board year. The Advisory Board shall use the county fiscal
year as its meeting year.
   (M)   Administrative. The Advisory Board may contract with the North
Carolina Cooperative Extension Warren County Center office to serve the Board
for record keeping, correspondence, application procedures under this chapter,
and any other services the Board needs to complete its duties.
   (N)   Advisory Board duties.
      (1)   Review applications of landowners for enrollment of qualified
farmland, horticultural land, or forestland into a district for compliance with
this chapter;
      (2)   Make recommendations concerning the establishment and modification
of districts;
      (3)   Conduct public hearings;
      (4)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs, or issues
affecting the agricultural economy and agricultural, horticultural or forestry
activities within the county that will affect districts;
      (5)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to
this chapter;
      (6)   Develop and maintain a countywide farmland protection plan as
defined in G.S. § 106-744(e);
      (7)   Study additional methods of protection for farming, horticulture,
forestry, and the attendant land base, and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners;
      (8)   File annual report in compliance with G.S. § 106-743; and
      (9)   Perform other related tasks or duties assigned by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.08  CREATION OF VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS AND ENHANCED VOLUNTARY
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   Warren County will be treated as one region. All VADs and EVADs in Warren
County will be part of the Warren County Agricultural District.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.09  CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FARMLAND.
   To secure county certification as qualifying farmland in either a district
or enhanced district, a farm must:
   (A)   Be real property that is engaged in agriculture as defined in G.S. §
106-581.1;
   (B)   Have, or be in the process of obtaining a NRCS soil conservation plan
if the land is highly erodible as defined by NRCS, and the property is in the
Present Use Tax Valuation Program.
   (C)   Have a current NRCS conservation plan on file prior to approval of an
enhanced voluntary district designation.
   (D)   Be the subject of a conservation agreement, as defined in G.S. § 121-
35, between the county and the owner of such land that prohibits non-farm use
or development of such land for a period of at least ten years, except for the
creation of not more than three lots that meet applicable county zoning and
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.10  APPLICATION, REVIEW, AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Application procedure.
      (1)   A landowner, or landowners, may apply to participate in either the
voluntary agricultural district or the enhanced voluntary agricultural district
program by making application, for qualifying farmland to be included in a
district or enhanced district, to the chairperson of the Advisory Board or a
designated staff person. The landowner, or landowners, must designate the
application as for either voluntary agricultural district status or enhanced
voluntary agricultural district status. The application shall be on forms
provided by the Advisory Board.
      (2)   A conservation agreement, required by G.S. §§ 106-737 and 106-
743.3, and defined in G.S. § 121-35, suited to district type, must be executed
by the landowners with the Advisory Board. The conservation agreement for the
enhanced voluntary agricultural district must be recorded with the County
Register of Deeds Office as required under G.S. § 121-41(c).
   (B)   Review process.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application, the chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices, which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the Advisory Board prior to the
date set for the Advisory Board to review the application:
      (2)   The County Tax Office;
      (3)   The County Soil and Water Conservation District Office;
      (4)   The County Cooperative Extension Office;
      (5)   The Natural Resources Conservation Service; and
      (6)   Any other such agency or office the Advisory Board deems
appropriate.
      (7)   The Advisory Board or its administrative designees prior to, or at,
the next regularly scheduled board meeting shall review an application for
certification of qualifying farmland to determine if the application is
compliant with all requirements of this chapter.
      (8)   Any application not containing all information and not meeting
specifications set forth in this chapter shall be rejected and returned to the
applicant together with the reason(s) for rejection. The Advisory Board or its
administrative designees may allow the applicant 30 calendar days or a
reasonable time period agreed upon by both parties in writing, to cure any
deficiencies in the application, which if cured, would make the application
complete.
   (C)   Appeal. If an application is determined to be noncompliant with this
chapter by the Advisory Board, the landowner may, within 15 days of
notification of noncompliance of the application, request in writing that the
Advisory Board reconsider its determination. The request for reconsideration
shall state the reason(s) therefore. The Advisory Board shall meet at the next
regularly scheduled board meeting for reconsideration of the application and
shall notify the applicant of its determination, and the reason(s) therefore,
within 15 days of the reconsideration of the application. Upon either an
initial negative determination, if no request for reconsideration was made, or
a negative determination after reconsideration, the landowner shall have 30
days from the date of notification to appeal the determination to the Board of
Commissioners. Such appeal shall be presented in writing and shall state the
reason(s) therefore. The decision of the Board of Commissioners is final.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.11  REVOCATION, TRANSFER, RENEWAL, AND ENFORCEMENT OF CONSERVATION
AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Revocation.
      (1)   District. By providing 30 days advance written notice to the
Advisory Board, a landowner of qualifying farmland within a district may revoke
the conservation agreement or the Advisory Board may revoke the same
conservation agreement based on noncompliance by the landowner with the
provisions of §
155.10, subject to the same provisions as contained in §
155.10(C) for appeal of denials. Such revocation shall result in loss of
qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in a district.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board
of Commissioners shall revoke any conservation agreement prior to its
expiration. If the Advisory Board shall revoke this conservation agreement for
cause, the landowner shall have the appeal rights set forth in §
155.10(C). A notice of revocation shall be recorded in the Register of Deeds
Office, pursuant to G.S. § 121 -41(b), sufficient to provide notice that the
qualifying farmland land has been withdrawn from the voluntary agricultural
district program and the qualifying farmland shall be removed from the
voluntary agricultural district program database and map in the county
geographic information system.
      (2)   Enhanced district. Conservation agreements for land within enhanced
districts are irrevocable for a period of ten years. At the end of the term, a
notice of revocation shall be recorded in the Register of Deeds Office
sufficient to provide notice that the land has been withdrawn from the enhanced
voluntary agricultural district program if the agreement is not automatically
renewed, or renewed voluntary by the landowners.
   (B)   Transfer.
      (1)   District. Transfers of land in a district due to death of the
landowner, sale, or gift shall not revoke the conservation agreement, if all
new landowners affirm the conservation agreement and affirm, on a supplemental
application, updated information demonstrating that the enrolled land still
qualifies for enrollment under §
155.09. In the event that there are water or sewer assessments held in abeyance
by this chapter, and where the new owner(s) fail(s) to agree in writing to
accept liability for those assessments when land is withdrawn either
voluntarily or involuntarily from the district, the conservation agreement
shall be revoked. Revocation shall be undertaken pursuant to the provisions of
division (A) above.
      (2)   Enhanced district. Transfers of land in a district due to death of
the landowners, sale, or gift shall not revoke the conservation agreement. The
conservation agreement for the enhanced voluntary agricultural district shall
be binding upon all successors in interest to the landowner, except for
successors in interest resulting from the exercise of rights under a security
interest or lien that preceded the conservation agreement.
   (C)   Renewal.
      (1)   District. A conservation agreement for land within a voluntary
agricultural district, that continues to qualify under all provisions of §
155.09, shall be automatically renewed for a period of ten  years unless the
landowner provides 30-day written notice to the Advisory Board of intent not to
renew. Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor
the Board of Commissioners shall fail to renew any conservation agreement
unless this chapter or its authorizing legislation has been repealed.
      (2)   Enhanced district. A conservation agreement for land within an
enhanced voluntary agricultural district, that continues to qualify under all
provisions of §
155.09, shall be deemed automatically renewed for an additional term of three
years, unless either the Advisory Board or the landowner gives written notice
to the contrary prior to the termination date of the conservation agreement. At
the end of the three-year term, the conservation agreement for land within an
enhanced voluntary agricultural district that continues to qualify under all
provisions of §
155.09 shall thereafter automatically renew for successive one-year terms,
unless either the Advisory Board or the landowner gives written notice to the
contrary prior to the termination date of the conservation agreement.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   District. Enforcement of the terms of a conservation agreement for
land enrolled in a district shall be limited to revocation of the conservation
agreement and the benefits derived therefrom. Revocation shall be undertaken
pursuant to the provisions of division (A) above.
      (2)   Enhanced district. Conservation agreements for the enhanced
agricultural district program may, at the election of the parties, include
provisions requiring that any disputes between the county and the landowner be
resolved through arbitration or mediation, and, in the event of litigation,
that the prevailing party be awarded costs, including reasonable attorney fees.
Enforcement of the terms of the conservation agreement may be through an action
for injunctive relief and/or damages in any court of competent jurisdiction.
The county may also terminate any benefits to the owner under this program
either permanently or during the period of violation, as appropriate. If the
Advisory Board shall revoke this conservation agreement for cause, the
landowner shall have the appeal rights set forth in §
155.10(C). The right to terminate program benefits is in addition to any legal
rights that the county may have under either this chapter or the terms of the
applicable conservation agreement. The county may seek costs of the action
including reasonable attorney fees if such a provision is incorporated into the
conservation agreement.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.12  WAIVER OF WATER AND SEWER OR ALL UTILITY ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   No connection required.
      (1)   District. A landowner belonging to a district shall not be required
to connect to Warren County water and/or sewer systems.
      (2)   Enhanced district. A landowner belonging to an enhanced district
shall not be required to connect to Warren County utility systems.
   (B)   Abeyance.
      (1)   District. Water and sewer assessments shall be held in abeyance,
without interest, for farms in a district, until improvements on such property
are connected to the water or sewer system for which the assessment was made.
      (2)   Enhanced district. Utility assessments shall be held in abeyance,
without interest, for farms in an enhanced district, until improvements on such
property are connected to the utility system for which the assessment was made.
   (C)   Termination of abeyance. When the period of abeyance ends, the
assessment is payable in accordance with the terms set out in the assessment
resolution.
   (D)   Suspension of statute of limitations. Statutes of limitations are
suspended during the time that any assessment is held in abeyance without
interest. The landowner shall be required to sign an acknowledgment, which
shall be incorporated into the conservation agreement, of the abeyance of the
statute of limitations upon collecting water and sewer assessments, or other
utility assessments.
   (E)   Other statutory abeyance procedures. Nothing in this section is
intended to diminish the authority of the county to hold assessments in
abeyance under G.S. § 153A-201, or other applicable law.
   (F)   Conflict with water and/or sewer system construction and improvements
grants. To the extent that this section conflicts with the terms of federal,
state, or other grants under which county utility systems are constructed this
section shall not apply. This section shall not apply to utilities that are not
owned by the county unless the county has entered into an agreement with the
entity(ies) owning the utilities and that agreement provides that this chapter
shall apply.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.13  ADDITIONAL ENHANCED AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BENEFITS.
   Land enrolled in the enhanced voluntary agricultural district program is
entitled to all of the benefits available under the voluntary agricultural
district program, and to the following additional benefits under this section.
   (A)   Agricultural Cost Share Program. Landowners participating in enhanced
districts are eligible under G.S. § 106-850(b) to receive the higher percentage
of cost-share funds for the benefit of that farmland under the Agriculture Cost
Share Program established pursuant to G.S. Ch. 106, Art. 72.
   (B)   Priority consideration. State departments, institutions, or agencies
that award grants to farmers are encouraged to give priority consideration to
landowners participating in enhanced districts.
   (C)   Utility assessment waiver. As provided in §
155.12, waiver of all county utility assessments, in addition to waiver of
water and sewer assessments, is available to all participants in enhanced
districts.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.14  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. G.S. § 106-740 provides that no state or local public agency
or governmental unit may formally initiate any action to condemn any interest
in qualifying farmland within a district or enhanced district until such agency
or unit has requested that the Advisory Board hold a public hearing on the
proposed condemnation. This provision ensures that the condemning agency or
unit considers the impact of its actions upon agricultural, forested, and/or
horticultural land prior to taking action that is not reversible. This
provision is not intended to, and does not, prohibit the condemning agency or
unit from taking action that is authorized by law.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receiving a request, the Advisory Board shall publish notice
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of Warren County
within five business days of the request, and will in the same notice notify
the public of a public hearing on the proposed condemnation, to be held within
ten days of receipt of the request.
      (2)   The Advisory Board shall meet to review:
         (a)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily
established by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of
any fiscal impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
         (b)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have
less impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the
district or enhanced district within which the proposed action is to take
place.
      (3)   The Advisory Board shall consult with the Cooperative Extension
Service Office, the Soil and Water Conservation District Office, the Natural
Resources Conservation Service, and any other individuals, agencies, or
organizations deemed by the Advisory Board to be necessary for its review of
the proposed action.
      (4)   Within five days after the hearing, the Advisory Board shall make a
report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the proposed
action. The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision-making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
      (5)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on
the report of the Advisory Board.
      (6)   After the ten day period for public comment has expired, the
Advisory Board shall submit a final report containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action to the decision-making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition within five days.
      (7)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing
has been received to the day that a final report is issued to the decision-
making body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 30 days.
If the agency agrees to an extension, the agency and the Advisory Board shall
mutually agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made available to
the public.
      (8)   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, the condemning agency may not formally
initiate a condemnation action while the proposed condemnation is properly
before the Advisory Board within these time limitations.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.15  NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Record notice of proximity to a voluntary or an enhanced voluntary
agricultural district.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   Upon certification of qualifying farmland, the Warren County
Register of Deeds shall file a notarized copy of said property in the land
records. To provide notice to alert a person researching the particular tract
is located within one-half aerial mile of a tract within the district, the
Register of Deeds shall also maintain a separate file with copies of all such
tracts in the county. In addition, signs will be posted in the Register of
Deeds Office alerting the public of the existence of the Voluntary Agricultural
Districts in the county, accompanied by a map showing their locations. This map
will also be available electronically as an additional layer in the county’s
GIS mapping system.
         (b)   VAD Conservation Agreement is not required to be recorded under
G.S. § 121-41(c) of the Conservation and Historic Preservation Agreements Act.
An EVAD Conservation Agreement must be recorded under G.S. § 121-41(c) of the
Conservation and Historic Preservation Agreements Act.
      (2)   Limit of liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, members of the Advisory Board, or agents be held liable in
damages for any misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance occurring in good
faith in connection with the duties or obligations imposed by this section.
      (3)   No cause of action. In no event shall any cause of action arise out
of the failure of a person researching the title of a particular tract to
report to any person the proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or
district or enhanced district as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Geographic information system. Voluntary districts and enhanced
districts shall be mapped in the county geographic information system
maintained by the Warren County GIS Administrator. Once completed, this
information should be made available publicly and to any agency or office the
Advisory Board deems appropriate.
   (B)   Posting of notice. The following notice, of a size and form suitable
for posting, shall be posted in the Register of Deeds Office, and any other
office or agency the Advisory Board deems necessary:
      “Warren County has established districts and enhanced districts to
protect and preserve agricultural lands and activities. These districts have
been developed and mapped by the county to inform all purchasers of real
property that certain agricultural and forestry activities, including but not
limited to pesticide spraying, manure spreading, machinery and truck operation,
livestock operations, sawing, burning, and other common farming activities may
occur in these districts and enhanced districts any time during the day or
night. Maps and information on the location and establishment of these
districts and enhanced districts can be obtained from the North Carolina
Cooperative Extension Service Office, the Soil and Water Conservation District
Office, the Register of Deeds Office, the Warren County Planning Office, or the
Natural Resources Conservation Service Office.”
   (C)   Signage. Signs identifying parcels enrolled in an agricultural
district may be placed on enrolled parcels at the discretion of the owners.
Signs shall not be placed along the right-of-way of any state-maintained road.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.16  CONSULTATION AUTHORITY.
    The Advisory Board may consult with North Carolina Cooperative Extension
Office, the Soil and Water Conservation District Office, the Natural Resources
Conservation Service Orifice, the Farm Service Agency Office, the North
Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, and with any other
individual, agency, or organization the Advisory Board deems necessary to
properly conduct its business.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2009; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 155.17  CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND STATUTES.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter conflict with other ordinances of
Warren County, the provisions of those other ordinances shall govern. Whenever
the provisions of any federal or state statute conflict with this chapter, the
provisions of such federal or state statute shall govern. The sole remedy for a
land use not complying with this chapter shall be revocation of the
conservation agreement and removal of the non-qualifying land from the Warren
County Voluntary Agricultural District and Enhanced Voluntary Agricultural
District Program. Recreational use of land that does not interfere with
agricultural uses as defined in G.S. § 106-581.1 shall not be considered non-
compliant with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
CHAPTER 156:  SOLAR FARMS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Authority and grant of power
   
156.04   Jurisdiction
   
156.05   Definitions
Site Development Requirements
   
156.20   Setbacks
   
156.21   Security
   
156.22   Height
   
156.23   Buffers and landscaping
   
156.24   Decommissioning
   
156.25   Applicable codes and inspections
Legal Provisions
   
156.40   Procedure for solar farm development approval
   
156.41   Variance
   
156.42   Conflict of law
   
156.43   Amendments
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Warren County Solar Farm Ordinance” and
may also be referred to as “Solar Energy Systems Regulations for the
Unincorporated Areas of Warren County”, not inclusive of the zoned areas of
Lake Gaston, Kerr Lake, and the municipalities of Warrenton and Norlina and
their respective extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJ).
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the construction, installation,
and operation of solar farms (solar energy systems (SES)) in the county in a
manner that promotes economic development and ensures the protection of health,
safety, and welfare while also avoiding adverse impacts to important areas such
as agricultural lands, endangered species habitats, conservation lands, and
other sensitive lands. This chapter is not intended to replace safety, health,
or environmental requirements contained in other applicable codes, standards,
or ordinances. The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state, or federal law.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.03  AUTHORITY AND GRANT OF POWER.
    This chapter is adopted under the authority of state law. A member of the
Planning Board shall not vote on any zoning map or text amendment where the
outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.04  JURISDICTION.
    The regulations contained herein shall govern development of land within
the county, except those lands lying within the jurisdiction of any
municipality, unless such municipality shall have, by resolution, requested the
county to enforce these regulations within the municipality’s area of
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLAR FARM (ALSO KNOWN AS A SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES)). The components and
subsystems required to convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy
suitable for use. The area of the SYSTEM includes all the land inside the
perimeter of the system, which extends to any fencing. The term applies, but is
not limited to, solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, solar thermal systems, and
solar hot water systems.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEMS. Small scale, roof-top energy systems in which the
sun’s heat is gathered by a solar collector and used to increase the
temperature of a heat-transfer fluid, such as water or a nonfreezing liquid,
which flows through the pipes in the collector; the heat contained in this
fluid then is conveyed and transferred to the water to be heated. This type of
SYSTEM is often used on homes, recreational centers and schools, hospitals, and
office buildings.
   SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SYSTEMS. An electrical system or device that
converts the energy of light directly into electricity by the photovoltaic
effect through the use of photoelectric cells, also known as solar panels.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS. Large scale commercial-industrial energy system and
related equipment for harnessing solar energy to generate thermal energy or
electrical energy for use in connection with commercial and industrial
operations.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.20  SETBACKS.
   A minimum of a 50 feet from all property lines (inclusive of equipment and
fencing).
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.21  SECURITY.
   Fencing shall be a minimum of six feet in height and secured to reduce/
eliminate trespassing.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.22  HEIGHT.
   A maximum height (not including power lines) for the solar panel arrays
shall be no more than 15 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.23  BUFFERS AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The minimum requirements of this chapter shall be applied with
vegetative buffers having a minimum of three feet in height at the time of
project construction and reaching a minimum of eight feet in height within five
years.
   (B)   Landscaping including vegetative buffers, security fences, and gates
shall be maintained for the duration of the solar farm operation, up to and
including decommissioning (dismantled/removed).
   (C)   Solar panels/arrays shall be constructed so as to minimize glare or
reflection onto adjacent properties and roadways.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.24  DECOMMISSIONING.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall be
advised in writing within 30 days by the solar farm operator or property owners
(whichever entity/party holds the development and building permits) in the
event the project is sold or otherwise transferred to another entity/party and/
or the current operator/owner abandons the project.
   (B)   At the time of applying for permits, the applicant (solar farm
developer or property owner) shall include a decommissioning plan with the
anticipated life expectancy of the solar farm and the anticipated cost in
current dollars, as well as the method(s) of insuring that funds will be
available for decommissioning and restoration of the project site to its
original, natural condition prior to the solar farm development.
   (C)   If the site is damaged, the solar farm operator shall have 12 months
to bring the project back to its operational capacity. If for any reason the
solar farm is not generating electricity after six months, the operator shall
have six months to complete decommissioning of the solar farm in compliance
with division (B) above.
   (D)   In the event of bankruptcy or similar financial default of the solar
farm, the property owner of the project site shall bear the decommissioning
costs.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.25  APPLICABLE CODES AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All solar farms shall be in compliance with the requirements of the
most current State Building and Electrical Codes, the state, and the county.
   (B)   A solar farm development in the un-zoned areas of the county shall be
required to obtain and provides fees as applicable for the following, per the
county fee schedule:
      (1)   The county E-911 address for the site if one is not currently
assigned;
      (2)   A county development permit;
      (3)   A county building permit (nonresidential electrical);
      (4)   The state’s Department of Transportation (NCDOT) driveway permit;
      (5)   If land disturbance exceeds more than one acre, per the state’s
Department of Environment and Natural Resources:
         (a)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan/permit with
appropriate best management practices (BMP’s) for stormwater runoff management
and water quality protection;
         (b)   A stream restoration plan; and
         (c)   A 401 water quality permit.
      (6)   Required riparian buffers applicable for either the Tar-Pamlico
and/or Roanoke River Basins (dependent on project location);
      (7)   VEPCO-appropriate shoreline management plans/permits. If the
project is located on Lake Gaston and for Kerr Lake, the U.S. Army Corps
Engineers shoreline management program;
      (8)   Compliance with
Chapter 150, if applicable; and
      (9)   Appropriate public utilities as necessary (public water/sewer), or
for private well/septic (on-site wastewater treatment facility) the county’s
Department of Environmental Health.
   (C)   All active solar farms shall be inspected by a County Code Enforcement
Officer (Building Inspector) on an annual basis to ensure compliance with
applicable State Building and Electrical Codes.
   (D)   Each solar farm shall be required to have the facility inspected
annually for three years by the Planning and Zoning Administrator, or his or
her designee, following the issuance of the zoning permit or development
permit, applicable in the un-zoned areas of the county, to verity continued
compliance with the
Chapter 157 or this chapter as applicable.
   (E)   Additional inspections shall be conducted as necessary in the event of
complaints and shall not replace the noted inspections outlined in this
section.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.40  PROCEDURE FOR SOLAR FARM DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no proposed solar farm, as defined
in §
156.05, and within the county’s jurisdiction shall proceed with construction
until it has been submitted to and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator, or his or her designee, and as evidenced by an approved county
development permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)  Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.41  VARIANCE.
   (A)   The County Planning Board may authorize a variance from these
regulations for solar farm development when, in its opinion, undue hardship may
result from strict compliance. Application forms may be obtained from the
County Planning Department.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the County Planning Board shall make the
findings required below, taking into account the nature of the proposed
development, existing use of land in the vicinity, and the probable effect of
the proposed development upon the community in the vicinity. The applicant can
appeal the decision of the Planning Board to the Board of Commissioners in an
un-zoned area.
   (C)   No variance shall be granted unless the County Planning Board finds
all the following:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the property owner to assume
reasonable use of the land;
      (3)   The circumstances giving the rise to the need for the variance are
peculiar to the parcel and are not generally characteristic of other parcels in
the jurisdiction of this chapter; and
      (4)   Special consideration may be granted by the Planning Board in
situations involving a voluntary or court ordered partition of land made for
the purpose of dividing the estate of a decedent among his or her heirs,
whether the decedent died testate or intestate.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.42  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This section does not apply to any current municipal zoning requirements. It
is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere
with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, agreements, rules,
regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law. However,
where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.43  AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may periodically amend the terms of this chapter,
but no amendment shall become effective unless it has been proposed by or has
been submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation. The
Planning Board shall have 45 days from the time the proposed amendment is
submitted to it within which to submit its report. If the Planning Board fails
to submit a report within the specified time, the amendment shall be deemed
approved. The governing body shall adopt no amendment until they have held a
public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once a week for two
successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing. The initial notice shall be
published the first time not less than ten days or more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is
not to be included, but the day of the hearing shall be included.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, any persons who, being the owner
or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial jurisdiction
of this chapter, thereafter proceeds with development of solar farm prior to
being approved under the terms of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Further, violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon
conviction, to fine and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14.4.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2016)
CHAPTER 157:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Authority
   
157.002   Purpose
   
157.003   Applicability
   
157.004   Existing special uses
   
157.005   Buffers/screening
   
157.006   Impervious surface area
   
157.007   Amendments
   
157.008   Legal status provisions
   
157.009   Interpretation of certain terms
   
157.010   Definitions
District Regulations
   
157.025   Purpose
   
157.026   Height regulations
   
157.027   Accessory uses
   
157.028   Minimum frontage
   
157.029   Zoning districts defined
   
157.030   Official zoning map
   
157.031   Rules of interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
157.032   Table II-1 dimensional requirements
   
157.033   Table II-2 permitted uses
Special Use Permits
   
157.045   Purpose
   
157.046   Adult entertainment establishment
   
157.047   Airports, landing field, heliports, and helipads
   
157.048   Amusement parks
   
157.049   Assembly halls, stadiums and similar structures
   
157.050   Cemeteries
   
157.051   Dwelling, manufactured home (single wide or double wide)
   
157.052   Dwelling, multi-family
   
157.053   Dwelling, single-family
   
157.054   Dwelling, temporary
   
157.055   Fire stations, police, EMS, and civil defense stations
   
157.056   Government buildings
   
157.057   Group home
   
157.058   Landfill
   
157.059   Manufactured/mobile home parks
   
157.060   Night clubs and bars
   
157.061   Planned unit development
   
157.062   Public parks and the like
   
157.063   Clubs, golf courses, and fishing clubs
   
157.064   Radio and television towers and the like
   
157.065   Riding stables
   
157.066   Schools
   
157.067   Shopping centers
   
157.068   Solar farm
   
157.069   Substitutions, electric
   
157.070   Strip malls and the like
   
157.071   Swimming clubs
   
157.072   Temporary camp by a non-profit organization
   
157.073   Timeshare
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
157.085   Off-street parking requirements
   
157.086   Off-street loading
Non-Conforming Uses
   
157.100   Purpose
   
157.101   Effect upon existing non-conforming uses
Signs
   
157.115   Sign compliance
   
157.116   General sign regulations
   
157.117   Table of permitted signs
Enforcement
   
157.130   Planning and Zoning Administrator
   
157.131   Zoning permit
   
157.132   Certificate of occupancy
   
157.133   Notices of violation
   
157.134   Right of appeal
   
157.135   Zoning permit invalid if work not commenced or completed
Board of Adjustment
   
157.145   Composition
   
157.146   Rules for proceeding of the Board of Adjustment
   
157.147   Powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment
   
157.148   Voting procedures
   
157.149   Appeals
 
   
157.999   Penalty
   
Appendix:Official zoning maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001  AUTHORITY.
    The provisions of this chapter are adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners under authority granted by the state’s General Assembly in G.S.
Ch. 160D.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a comprehensive set of
regulations to protect the environment and promote the health, safety, and
general welfare within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   By regulating the uses permitted in an established zoning district,
all areas shall be developed to their potential while being protected from
incompatible and discriminatory land use practices.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018 ; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.003  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies in the following circumstances.
   (A)   Bona fide farms not affected by this chapter. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to affect bona fide farms, but any use of such property for
non-farm purposes shall be subject to these regulations (see “bona fide farms”
in §
157.010).
   (B)   Zoning affects every building and land use. Except as provided in
division (A) above, no building shall be erected, moved, reconstructed,
renovated or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
except in compliance with all the zoning district regulations established by
this chapter.
   (C)   Required open space. No part of a lot, yard, off-street parking area,
or other required open space shall be reduced below the minimum required by
this chapter nor shall it be used to satisfy the requirements of another
building or use.
   (D)   Existing lots of insufficient size. Any existing lot of record, which
has any dimension, minimum yard (setback) or lot size less than required by
this chapter, shall be subject to its current zoning district minimum yard
(setback) requirements and current regulations for an approved septic system or
public utilities for water and sewer service as applicable.
   (E)   Access to a public road. Every business or residential building
hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot that has access to a public road
or right-of-way, and all structures shall be so located as to provide safe and
convenient access for servicing, fire protection and required off-street
parking.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.004  EXISTING SPECIAL USES.
   After the effective date of this chapter, those uses which existed prior to
that effective date shall be considered to be legally established special uses.
Any expansion, addition or other change for which a zoning permit is required
shall be submitted per §§
157.145 to
157.149.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.005  BUFFERS/SCREENING.
    Development shall, when feasible, incorporate a natural area as an
undisturbed buffer (maintained in a natural vegetative condition, e.g.,
undisturbed trees, hedges, etc.) or provide replanting of vegetation as a
separation between inconsistent land uses (e.g., residential development next
to commercial/industrial development). A buffer is defined as the portion of a
yard where special plantings and/or vegetation may be required to separate and
partially screen two adjacent land uses that are ordinarily incompatible by
virtue of their use (see §§
157.009 and
157.010). Additional provisions may be required by the Planning Board or Board
of Adjustment as part of a specific plan approval or a special use permit. The
following shall apply.
   (A)   Buffers, as defined in this chapter, are those features that preserve
existing vegetation and minimize potential erosion by providing a natural
buffer. The Planning Board may allow appropriate existing vegetation to
substitute for landscape requirements provided the intent of this chapter is
maintained.
   (B)   Buffers as defined in this chapter are permitted to be located within
the setbacks (minimum yards) of the development or individual lot/parcel for
the respective zoning district (a buffer is not in addition to the setback
requirements).
   (C)   If a lot or parcel adjacent to new development is vacant, then no
buffer is required, except in circumstances where the new development requires
specific protection of natural resources as determined by county development
regulations and North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources regulations.
   (D)   Buffers are not required on all sides of new development if it is
identified to the Planning and Zoning Administrator that the proposed use
buffers the existing adjacent use. In all other circumstances, a buffer is
required surrounding the perimeter of any new development adjacent to other
properties that are not within the new development (not inclusive of
easements).
   (E)   Between incompatible land uses the developer shall either maintain to
the maximum extent feasible a 20-foot buffer of undisturbed natural area or
provide an appropriate level of vegetative replanting as determined by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   If the new development incorporates a solid wall, opaque wood fence or
other approved materials is proposed then a 50% reduction is to be allowed in
the depth of the buffer and plant material.
   (G)   A buffer as defined in this chapter shall be planted, leaving space
for an ingress and egress location. The buffer shall be maintained in
serviceable conditions at all times and damage to the buffer shall be corrected
within 14 days.
   (H)   For planned unit developments (PUDs) or mixed uses, the buffer
requirements shall be incorporated into the application process (special use
permit) as part of a project master plan for review by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator, Board of Adjustment and Planning Board as applicable.  Each
project shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, dependent on the scale and
intensity of the development where the developer shall be encouraged to provide
for a compatible mix of uses to meet the provisions and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.006  IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA.
    As defined in §
157.010, in order to provide protection of the county’s natural resources for
land and water quality, new development shall not exceed the following
percentages (impervious surface ratio) per lot in its respective zoning
districts (illustration shows what is defined as an impervious surface only and
does not reflect the percentages below):
   (A)   Residential development: maximum of 25% impervious surface area;
   (B)   Non-residential development: maximum of 36% impervious surface area.
      (1)   Example of what qualifies as impervious surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1200.png]
      (2)   Picture above is an example for reference only, not reflective of
county impervious surface area requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7- 2021)
§ 157.007  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    The Board of Commissioners may, at any time, amend, supplement,
change, modify or repeal this chapter. Proposed changes or amendments may be
initiated by the Board of Commissioners, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment,
or by one or more owners, optionees, or lessees of property within the area
proposed to be changed or affected.
   (B)   Petitions to amend this chapter shall be presented to the Secretary of
the Planning Board for review and recommendation by said Board at least ten
working days prior to its meeting. The petition shall state the nature of the
proposed amendment, a legal description of the property involved, and the names
of the property owners. A fee (see Warren County Fee Schedule) to defray cost
of advertising and other administrative costs involved, unless initiated by the
Board of Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or the Planning Board, shall
accompany each petition.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall have 45 days, from the date of its meeting,
within which to submit its recommendation. Failure of the Board to submit its
recommendation within this time shall constitute a favorable recommendation.
The Planning Board’s report shall be submitted in writing to the County
Manager, and subsequently the Board of Commissioners, and to the petitioner(s),
by the Secretary of the Planning Board.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing before adoption
of any proposed amendment of this chapter.
      (1)   A notice of such public hearing shall be published once a week for
two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Said
notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days and not more
than 25 before the date established for such public hearing.
      (2)   Whenever there is a zoning classification action involving a parcel
of land, the owner of that parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing,
and the owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of the proposed
classification by first class mail at the last addresses listed for such owners
on the county tax abstracts. The person or persons mailing such notices shall
certify to the Board of Commissioners that fact, and such certification shall
be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (3)   In addition, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall post a
sign on any property for which a petition to change the zoning classification
has been received. The sign shall state the nature of the change requested and
the date, time and place of the public hearing and shall be posted on the
property in question at least five work days before the public hearing date.
   (E)   A majority vote of the Board of Commissioners shall be the required
minimum to amend this chapter.
   (F)   When a petition to rezone (zoning map amendment) is denied by the
Board of Commissioners, a period of 12 months, from the date of the petition to
rezone, must elapse before another petition for the same change previously
involved may be submitted.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.008  LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)    In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety and general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinance, deed restrictions, or
covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the highest standards, shall
govern.
   (B)   Whenever any condition or limitation is included in an order
authorizing a special use permit, variance, zoning compliance permit,
certificate of occupancy or site plan approval, it shall be conclusively
presumed that the authorizing officer or body considered such condition of
limitation necessary to carry out the spirit and purpose of this chapter or the
requirement of some provision hereof, and to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, and that the officer or Board would not have granted the
authorization to which the condition or limitation pertains except in the
belief that the condition or limitation was lawful.
   (C)   All actions challenging the validity of this chapter or amendment
adopted thereto shall be brought within nine months after enactment.
   (D)   The Zoning Ordinance of Warren County, North Carolina, duly adopted
August 5, 1963, and amendments adopted thereto, are hereby repealed.
   (E)   This chapter, adopted June 3, 1985, by the Board of Commissioners,
shall take effect and be in force from and after June 3, 1985.
   (F)   This chapter, duly adopted June 3, 1985, by the County Board of
Commissioners, amended as of February 2, 2004, September 11, 2006, June 22,
2009, January, 4, 2010, March 1, 2010, September 6, 2011, October 1, 2012, July
1, 2013, May 2, 2016, May 7, 2018, November 4, 2019, December 7, 2020 and June
7, 2021, shall take effect and be in force from and after June 7, 2021.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.009  INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN TERMS.
    In the construction of this chapter, the word interpretations and
definitions contained in this section and §
157.010 shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. In further amplification and for clarity of interpretation
of the context, the following definitions of word usage shall apply:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   (B)   The word SHALL be mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word MAY be permissive.
   (D)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, corporation, trust and company as well as an individual.
   (E)   The word LOT shall include the words PIECE, PARCEL, TRACT, and PLOT.
   (F)   The word BUILDING includes all enclosed structures.
   (G)   The phrase USED FOR shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED
FOR, INTENDED FOR, and OCCUPIED FOR.
   (H)   The word MAP or ZONING MAP shall mean the official zoning map(s) of
Warren County, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.010  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. That the use, structure, building, or sign is not used occupied or
otherwise operating for the intended non-conforming activity for the period
specified in this chapter. Periods of active remodeling during which the use is
closed for repairs should not be considered in determining abandonment,
provided the remodeling is completed within a reasonable time period as
indicated on the zoning permit.
   ABUT. Having property or zone lines in common; i.e., two lots are ABUTTING
if they have property lines in common. Lots are also considered to be abutting
if directly opposite each other and not separated by a street, alley, railroad
right-of-way, or stream.
   ACCESSORY. Incidental to the primary use of structure(s) on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE, or USE. A building, structure, or use, not
including signs, which is incidental to the principal use.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Includes clubs and eating and drinking
establishments with nude or semi-nude entertainment or dancing; physical
culture establishments, such as but not limited to massage parlors, adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult motels and hotels, and similar
establishments depicting/emphasizing sexual activities and/or nudity.
   AGRICULTURE. The practice of cultivating the soil, producing crops, and
raising livestock; such as but not limited to dairy, pasture, viticulture,
horticulture, hydroponics, floriculture, aquaculture, truck farming, orchards,
forestry, and animal husbandry.
   AGRICULTURE SALES AND SERVICES (AGRIBUSINESS). Any business where the
primary activity is sales and service of feed, seed, fertilizer, and farm
equipment.
   AIRPORT. A use that includes facilities for operating, maintenance and
storage of aircraft.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms intended for use as a residence by a
single household or family. Such a dwelling unit may be located in an apartment
house, duplex, or as an accessory use in a single-family home or a commercial
building.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A residential building incorporating multiple dwelling
units, for rental purposes only.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES. An establishment primarily engaged in one or
more of the following activities: (1) general automotive repair or service, (2)
automotive engine repair, (3) installation or repair of automotive
transmissions, (4) installation or repair of automotive glass, (5) installation
or repair of automotive exhaust systems, (6) repair of automotive tops, bodies
and interiors, and (7) automotive painting and refinishing.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION). Any building or land used for the
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail any automobile fuels along
with accessories such as lubricants or tires, except that car washing,
mechanical and electrical repairs, and tire repairs shall only be performed
incidental to the conduct of the service station and are performed indoors.
   BASEMENT. A space of full-story height that is below the first floor, wholly
or partly below the exterior grade, and is not used primarily for living
accommodations. Space partly below grade that is used primarily for living
accommodations or commercial use is not identified by FHA as BASEMENT space.
   BED AND BREAKFAST/TOURIST HOME. A form of temporary housing for travelers
which may serve meals.
   BILLBOARD. A flat surface or board, usually outdoors, on which large
advertisements, signs or notices are posted and where the size of the structure
meets all NCDOT requirements for size, construction, placement and located only
along the interstate (I-85) corridor.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The convening body of members appointed by the County
Board of Commissioners charged with hearing and deciding on special use
permits, variances and appeals from orders and interpretation of the Planning
and Zoning Administrator.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of Warren County.
   BONA FIDE FARM. Except as provided in G.S. § 106-743.4 for farms that are
subject to a conservation agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2, BONA FIDE FARM
purposes include the production and activities relating or incidental to the
production of crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants,
dairy, livestock, poultry, and all other forms of agricultural products as
defined in G.S. § 106-581.1 having a domestic or foreign market.
   BUFFER. A fence, wall, hedge, or other planted area or device used to
enclose, screen, or separate one use or lot from another.
   BUILDING. Any structure enclosed by exterior walls and a roof constructed or
used for a residence, business purposes, or accessory thereto; and including
but not limited to manufactured structures, garages, tents, lunch wagons,
dining cars, trailers, mobile homes, and carports. Any structure used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured at the front elevation to
the highest point of the building. Spires, cupolas, chimneys, antennae attached
to a building, and/or projections from buildings, radios, TV, communications,
telecommunication, and water towers are not to be included in the calculations
of BUILDING HEIGHT.
   BUILDING SETBACKS. The minimum distance from the property line, rights-of-
way, and/or easements to the closest projection of the exterior face of
buildings, walls, or other form of construction (i.e., decks, landings,
terraces, porches, and patios on grade).
   BUILDING SITE. Any lot or portion thereto, of a parcel of land upon which a
building or buildings may be erected in conformance with the provisions
contained herein.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. Built-upon areas include that portion of a development
project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious surfaces,
including buildings, pavement, and recreation facilities.
   BULLETIN BOARD. A board or structure not to exceed 16 square feet in size
that is used for posting bulletins, notices, advertisements or signs.
   CAMPGROUND. Land upon which, for compensation, shelters (such as tents,
travel trailers, and recreational vehicles) are erected or located for
occupation by transients and/or vacationers. They may include such permanent
structures and facilities as are normally associated with the operation of a
campground.
   CAR WASH. A building, or portion thereof containing facilities for washing
automobiles or other vehicles, using production line methods with a chain
conveyor, blower, or other mechanical devices; or providing space, water,
equipment, or soap for the complete or partial hand washing of automobiles,
whether washing is performed by the operator or by the customer.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A legal document issued by the local building
inspector (Code Enforcement Officer) to the owner of a premises attesting that
the premises have been built and maintained according to the provisions of
state building codes (State of North Carolina and/or National Building Code),
such as those that govern building, fire, mechanical, electrical and plumbing
codes.
   CHURCH. A building or structure for public worship of religion. This term
shall refer to all religious denominations.
   CLUB or LODGE (PRIVATE, NONPROFIT, CIVIC, OR FRATERNAL). An association of
persons, who lease a building, or portion thereof, the use of such premises
being restricted to members and their guests.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A use that keeps land in open space and protects
natural resources which requires buildings to be concentrated on a specified
area of total acreage.
   COMMON AREA/OPEN SPACE. A parcel or parcels of land, or an area of water, or
a combination of both land and water, within the site designated for
development and designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of residents of
the development not including streets or off-street parking areas.
   CONDOMINIUM(S). A system of ownership of individual units in a multi-unit
structure combined with joint ownership of commonly used property (e.g.,
sidewalks, hallways, stairs, and open space/common area).
   SPECIAL USE. A use that, given special characteristics related to its
operation or installation is permitted in a zone subject to approval by the
Board of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment (as applicable), and subject to
special requirements, different from those requirements for the zone in which
the special use may be located.
   CONTRACTOR. Person or business that provides products or services under
contract to another.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. A roadway which, in accordance with state and
federal guidelines, is designed to give preference to through traffic by
providing access connections at interchanges or selected public roads only.
   CONVERSION. Changing the original purpose of the building to the different
use.
   COVENANT. A private legal restriction on the use of land, which is contained
in the deed to the property or otherwise formally recorded.
   DAY CARE FACILITY (ADULTS OR CHILDREN). A licensed facility other than an
occupied dwelling, which provides for the care of children or adults.
   DAY CARE HOME (ADULTS OR CHILDREN). A licensed dwelling in which a permanent
occupant of the dwelling provides for the care of children or adults.
   DAY-NIGHT LEVEL (DNL). A measure of noise that is an outdoor, day-night
average (a weighted sound level). See also the Warren County Noise Ordinance.
   DEDICATION. The transfer of privately owned land to the public without
consideration, with the intent that the land will be accepted and used for
public purposes.
   DENSITY. The number of families, persons, housing units, or buildings per
unit of land.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed, arranged, or used for
permanent living quarters which include a bedroom and permanent kitchen and
bathroom facilities. The term DWELLING shall not include a travel trailer,
motel, hotel, tourist home, or other structures designed for transient
residence. A building that contains one or two dwelling units used, intended,
or designed to be used, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied for
living purposes.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A building joined to other buildings on one or more
sides by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling that is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A building containing two attached residential units, in a
single building.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family and approved by the Planning/Zoning and Code
Enforcement Department.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building used for, and designed as a residence for
two or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, TRIPLEX. A building containing three attached residential units,
in a single building.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential structure or that portion of a residential
structure used or designed as a residence for one family. This definition shall
also mean a room or rooms connected together, constituting a separate,
independent housekeeping establishment for a family, for owner occupancy or
rental or lease on weekly or longer terms, physically separated from any other
rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing
independent kitchen, bathroom, and sleeping facilities. This definition applies
to only one primary dwelling per lot and at a maximum only one accessory
dwelling per lot where applicable and in compliance this chapter for the
respective zoning district. The accessory dwelling shall be no larger than 25%
or 50% of the size of the primary dwelling. The 25% rule applies to an
efficiency apartment within the primary dwelling and the 50% rule is for an
accessory dwelling either attached or detached from the main house (guest
houses). For single family dwellings with multiple kitchens there shall be only
one entrance for the whole structure in order to maintain its classification as
a single-family dwelling, the structure shall not be defined as multi-family
and shall not serve as a rental unit for gain. RVs, campers and work trailers
are not permitted on site for living in while homes are being built and shall
not be permitted for use as a dwelling unit as defined in this chapter. For the
purposes of physically separated rooms which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent kitchen, bathroom, and sleeping facilities, the term
“mother-in-law” suite shall be applicable and meet the provisions of this
chapter. Said “mother-in-law” suite shall be located within a dwelling and with
access to the suite through the single-family dwelling. A single unit providing
complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. A right given by the owner of land to another party for specific
limited use of that land.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT. See RESTAURANT.
   FALL ZONE BUFFER. A land buffer around a tower base to provide for
containment of the tower to the site in the event that it falls.
   FAMILY. Any number of related people or not more than two unrelated people
living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FAMILY CARE FACILITY. A licensed business in a commercial building that
provides healthcare, counseling, or related services, including room, board,
and care for non-convalescent persons.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A licensed residence that provides limited health,
counseling, or related services, including room, board, and care, to six or
fewer persons in a family-type environment.
   FLAG LOT. An irregularly shaped lot where the buildable area of the lot is
connected to its street frontage by an arm of the lot  (see example
illustration below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1202.png]
 
   FRONTAGE. All of the real property abutting a street line measured along the
street right-of-way.
   GAS STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   GREENHOUSES AND NURSERIES (COMMERCIAL). An establishment primarily engaged
in the wholesale or retail sale of trees, shrubs, other plants, seeds, bulbs,
mulches, soil conditioners, fertilizers, pesticides, garden tools, and other
garden supplies to the general public.
   GREENWAY. A corridor of open space that connects different parts of a
community (county) and offers opportunities for walking, bicycling, other forms
of passive recreation, and non-motorized transportation.
   GROUND/GRADE LEVEL/FINISHED GRADE. The average level of the finished surface
of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure and
measured at the front elevation of the structure.
   GROUP HOME (HALFWAY HOUSE). A small, residential facility designed to serve
children or adults which usually have six or fewer occupants and are staffed 24
hours a day by trained caregivers.
   HELIPORT or HELIPAD. A use that includes facilities for the flying of
helicopters and associated rotary-wing aircraft.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is (a) listed individually in the
National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S.
Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
Register;  (b) certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic zone or a zone preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic zone; (c) individually listed on a state inventory of
historic places; or (d) individually listed on a local inventory of historic
places.
   HOMES FOR THE AGED (INCLUDING RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES). A licensed
institution, which is advertised, announced, or maintained for the express or
implied purpose of providing nursing or convalescent care.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession which is clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling, carried on entirely within a dwelling
or accessory building on the same lot by one or more occupants thereof
providing the following:
      (1)   Where no more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling is
used for such purposes;
      (2)   That there is no outside or window display;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the home occupation other than one
non-illuminated sign, not exceeding three square feet in area;
      (4)   That no mechanical or electrical equipment is installed or used
other than is normally used for domestic, professional, or hobby purposes, or
for infrequent consultation or emergency treatment;
      (5)   That not more than one person not a resident of the dwelling is
employed in connection with the home occupation;
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in the residential neighborhood, and
required parking shall be met off the street and other than in a required front
yard;
      (7)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION (HOA). An organization of the homeowners in a
particular subdivision, planned unit development (PUD), or condominium,
generally for the purpose of enforcing deed restrictions or managing the common
elements of the development.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building or other structure kept, maintained, advertised as,
or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are
supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests or tenants. Rooms are
furnished for the accommodation of such guests, and the HOTEL may or may not
have one or more dining rooms, restaurants, or cafes where meals are served.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA. The portion of the land area allowing no
infiltration of precipitation into the soil. IMPERVIOUS AREAS include, but are
not limited to, that portion of a development project covered by buildings,
areas paved with concrete, asphalt, or brick, paved roads, patios, driveways,
streets, and recreation facilities; such as tennis courts and swimming pools
(see example illustration below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1204.png]
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO. The algebraic ratio calculated to determine the
percentage of open land versus built-upon area on any tract(s) of land used for
the purpose of actual or anticipated residential or non-residential
development.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use or service that is unsuitable for direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous, or
discordant.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A special or exclusive type of planned industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a community of industries, providing them
with all necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among
compatible neighbors.
   JUNK. Pre-used or unusable metallic parts and non-metallic manufactured
products that are worn, deteriorated or obsolete making them unusable in their
existing conditions, but are subject to be dismantled and salvaged.
   JUNK YARD or SALVAGE YARD. Any area, in whole or in part, where waste or
scrap materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including but not limited to scrap iron and other
metals, paper, rags, vehicles, rubber tires, and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes
an auto-wrecking yard, but does not include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings. A JUNK YARD for vehicles is defined as four or more junk,
inoperable or unlicensed vehicles stored on the property.
   KENNEL. Any facility used for the purpose of boarding domesticated animals.
   KIOSK. A small structure not to exceed 16 square feet in size having one or
more sides open and used as a newsstand, refreshment stand, bandstand, or a
thick, column-like structure on which signs or advertisements are posted.
   LANDFILL, DEMOLITION. A landfill facility for stumps, limbs, leaves,
concrete, brick, wood, uncontaminated earth and other solid wastes due to
construction, demolition or land clearing.
   LANDFILL, SANITARY. A facility where waste material and refuse are placed in
the ground in layers and covered with earth or some other suitable material.
SANITARY LANDFILLS shall also conform to requirements of 15A NCAC 13B regarding
solid waste management.
   LOADING AREA OR SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area located for bulk pickups and
deliveries.
   LOT DEPTH. The depth of a lot, per this chapter, is the distance measured in
the mean direction of the side lines of the lot from the midpoint of the front
line to the midpoint of the opposite lot line.
   LOT. An individual parcel of land.
   LOT LINE. Any boundary of a parcel of land.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. Any boundary line of a lot running along a street right-of-
way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The property line(s) which is/are opposite the front
property line. If no property line is deemed to be opposite the front property
line and no minimum building line exists on the final plat to establish a REAR
LOT LINE, then there shall be no REAR LOT LINE; however, the rear yard setback
shall be maintained from the point (apex) on the property’s perimeter which is
the furthest removed from the midpoint of the front line. The rear yard minimum
building line shall be a line perpendicular to a straight line connecting said
apex and the midpoint on the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A boundary line that is not defined as a front or rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot, which has been recorded in the Office of the Register
of Deeds or a lot described by metes and bounds the description of which has
been recorded in the aforementioned office.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the sidelines measured along the
front building line as specified by the applicable front yard setback in this
chapter.
   MACHINE AND WELDING SHOP. A business primarily engaged in fabrication,
assembly and testing of parts or products. Generally, MACHINE SHOP jobs are low
volume (production) using machine tools such as lathes, automatic screw
machines, and machines for boring, grinding, milling and welding.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory built structure, as determined by the Housing
and Urban Development Department (HUD) of the Federal Government, composed of
one or more components, each of which is manufactured or constructed under the
authority of 42 United States Code Section 5401, the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act, and is to be used as a place for human
habitation, but which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than for the purpose of moving to a
permanent site, and which does not have permanently attached to its body or
frame any wheel or axles. Recreational vehicles or travel trailers (campers)
are not MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot or part thereof, or any parcel of
land which is used or offered for location for two or more manufactured/mobile
homes (defined in this chapter), regardless of whether or not a charge (fee) is
made for such accommodations. Provided, however, the provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to home spaces allocated by the property owner without charge
to person related to the property owner by blood or marriage or to tenant
farmers employed by said owner for the purposes of engaging in agricultural
pursuits on the premises (for this definition and defined in this section,
“family” is defined as any number of related people or not more than two
unrelated people living together as a single housekeeping unit).
   MINI-WAREHOUSE/STORAGE FACILITIES. A building, or group of buildings, in a
controlled access and/or fenced compound that contains varying sizes of
individual, compartmentalized and controlled access stalls or lockers for the
dead storage of a customer’s goods or wares. No sales, service, or repair
activities other than the rental of storage units are permitted on the
premises.
   MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. See MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory built home certified as meeting the North Carolina
Building Codes and associated codes as applicable to modular housing. A MODULAR
HOME is subject to the same standards as a site-built home.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter or
any amendment to it (and not created for the purpose of evading the
restrictions of this chapter) that cannot meet the minimum area or lot width or
depth requirements of the zone in which the lot is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of buildings or land not conforming to the
regulations of the district in which such building or land is situated but was
lawful before adoption of this chapter.
   NUISANCE. Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property,
endangers personal health or safety, or is offensive to the senses (sight,
smell, touch, hearing, and taste).
   NURSING HOME. See also HOMES FOR THE AGED.
   PARKING LOT. An area or plot of land used for the parking of vehicles,
either as a principle use or as an accessory use.
   PARKING SPACE. A graded and surfaced storage space for one automobile, plus
the necessary access space. It shall always be located outside the dedicated
street right-of-way. PARKING SPACE sizes shall be:
      (1)   For angle parking: min. 8.5 by 20 feet measured parallel to the
vehicle; and
      (2)   For 90-degree parking: min. nine feet by 20 feet.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A parking space located outside of a dedicated
street right-of- way.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
corporation, trust/company as well as an individual.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT - COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL (PUD-CR). A form of
development which combines commercial and residential development (mixed-use)
only on commercially zoned properties per this chapter. This development would
be characterized by a unified site design combining uses permitted in the
Lakeside Business (LB) and/or Neighborhood Business (NB) districts combined
with housing units, clustering buildings, providing common open space, density
increases, and mix of residential building types/land uses. It permits the
planning of a project and the calculation of densities over the entire
development, rather than on an individual lot-by-lot basis. For this definition
(and as relates to cluster development) for zero side and/or rear yard setbacks
(townhouse and/or condominium development), a zero side and/or rear yard
setback is within the development only and does not refer to the setbacks that
abut adjoining properties (relates to the sides of dwelling units that face
open space areas).
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT - RESIDENTIAL (PUD-R). A form of residential
development characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing
units, clustering buildings, providing common open space, density increases,
and mix of building types/land uses. It permits the planning of a project and
the calculation of densities over the entire development, rather than on an
individual lot-by-lot basis. For this definition (and as relates to cluster
development) for zero side and/or rear yard setbacks (townhouse and/or
condominium development), a zero side and/or rear yard setback is within the
development only and does not refer to the setbacks that abut adjoining
properties (relates to the sides of dwelling units that face open space areas).
   PLANNING BOARD. A body appointed by the Board of Commissioners to perform
the following duties: develop and recommend long range development plans/
policies; advise the Board of Commissioners in matters pertaining to current
physical development and zoning for the county, review-approve or deny proposed
development plans per county regulations, review-approve or deny proposed
rezoning petitions per county regulations.
   PUBLIC (COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL) OR COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. A single system of
sewage collection, treatment, and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary
district, a metropolitan sewage district, water and sewer authority, a county
or municipality or a public utility.
   PUBLIC (COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL) WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the
public or piped water for human consumption if such system has at least 15
service connections or regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals
daily at least 60 days out of the year.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is designed to be self-propelled or
permanently towable by a truck; and designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RESTAURANT or EATING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment whose principal
business is the sale of food, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a
ready to consume state. Sit-down RESTAURANTS are those at which food and/or
beverages may or may not be served by waitresses or waiters to patrons seated
at booths or tables (a sit-down RESTAURANT may have walk-in/carry out service
as part of its operation). Walk-in/carry out RESTAURANTS are those at which the
customers receive but do not consume the food and/or beverages at a counter,
bar, or from a drive-in window. Drive-in RESTAURANTS are those at which food or
beverages are served for consumption by customers in parked motor vehicles.
   RETAIL. The sale of a commodity to a consumer and not customarily subject to
sale again.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area owned and maintained by a municipality, the State of
North Carolina, a public utility, a railroad, or a private entity for the
placement of such utilities and/or facilities for the passage of vehicles/
pedestrians, including roads, pedestrian walkways, utilities, or railroads.
   SETBACK or MINIMUM YARD. The distance from the curb or other established
line, on an individual lot or parcel, within which no buildings or structures
may be erected.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, developed and
managed as a unit with a unified design of buildings and with coordinated
parking and service areas.
   SIGN. A displayed structure bearing lettering or symbols, used to identify
or advertise a place of business, items for sale, direction or designation.
   SIGN AREA (AREA OF SIGN, SIGN FACE). The area of a sign, for the purpose of
determining its permitted size, shall be the advertisable surface and includes
any type of sign, bulletin board, billboard or kiosk as defined in this chapter
and the measurement shall encompass only the printable, advertising area of the
sign:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1206.png]
   SILT FENCE. A temporary sediment control device used on construction sites
to protect water quality in nearby surface waters from sediment (loose soil) in
stormwater runoff. It consists of a piece of synthetic filter fabric (i.e., a
geotextile) stretched between a series of wooden or metal fence stakes along a
horizontal contour level (stakes are installed on the downhill side of the
fence, and the bottom edge of the fabric is trenched into the soil and
backfilled on the uphill side). The fence is installed on a site before soil
disturbance begins, down-slope from the disturbance area.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
parcel of land as required by the regulations involved. It includes such things
as lot lines, streets, building sites, reserved open space, buildings, major
landscape features - both natural and manmade and depending on requirements,
the locations of proposed utility lines.
   SOLAR FARM or SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems
required to convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for
use. The area of the system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the
system, which extends to any fencing. The term applies, but is not limited to,
solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, solar thermal systems, and solar hot water
systems.
   SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SYSTEMS. An electrical system or device that
converts the energy of light directly into electricity by the photovoltaic
effect through the use of photoelectric cells (also known as solar panels).
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS. Large scale commercial-industrial energy system and
related equipment for harnessing solar energy to generate thermal energy or
electrical energy for use in connection with commercial and industrial
operations.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEMS. Small scale, roof-top energy systems in which the
sun’s heat is gathered by a solar collector and used to increase the
temperature of a heat-transfer fluid (such as water or a nonfreezing liquid)
which flows through the pipes in the collector; the heat contained in this
fluid then is conveyed and transferred to the water to be heated (this type of
system is often used on homes, recreational centers and schools, hospitals and
office buildings).
   SPOT ZONING. When the zoning of a particular lot for a certain use is
different from the permitted uses in the surrounding zone. This action is
potentially invalidated by the courts.
   STORAGE. The deposition of commodities/items for the purpose of future use
or safekeeping.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between such floor and the ceiling above it.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare, which affords access to abutting
property and is recorded as such in the Warren County Register of Deeds.
   STRIP CENTER. A long, one story building or group of buildings with multiple
businesses connected by common walls, each business with separate entrances/
exits, housing retail services and/or service establishments. Out-parcels for
these same businesses are included, this term shall refer to strip malls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including a building; a
manufactured (modular) or mobile home; storage tank for gases or liquids; or
any other permanent or temporary, man-made facilities, including swimming
pools, walls, signs, and storage buildings.
   SUBDIVISION. Per the Warren County Subdivision Ordinance, all divisions of a
tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building site, or other
divisions for the purpose of sale, lease, or building development (whether
immediate or future) and includes all divisions of land involving the
dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; however, the
following is not included within this definition is not subject to any
regulations enacted pursuant to the Warren County Subdivision Ordinance:
      (1)   Combination/recombination. The combination or recombination of
portions of previously subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of
lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of the county as shown by the regulations prescribed by this chapter,
shall be exempt.
      (2)   Divisions greater than ten acres. The division of land into parcels
greater than ten acres where no street right-of-way dedication is involved
shall be exempt.
      (3)   Public acquisitions/right-of-way. The public acquisition by
purchase of strips of land for the widening or openings of street shall be
exempt.
      (4)   Lots of record not platted. Lots of record which were recorded by a
deed in the Warren County Courthouse prior to the adoption of the Subdivision
Ordinance may have a plat prepared and recorded.
      (5)   Cemetery lots. Individual cemetery plots may be platted and
recorded that do not meet the minimum lot size requirement of the zoning
district in which it exists; however, the cemetery shall comply with the
applicable zoning district regulations.
      (6)   Utility easements/lease agreements. Utility easements shall be
shown on subdivision plats as required by this chapter; however, utility
easements and utility lease agreements for distribution boxes or structures
shall be exempt from the subdivision regulations.
      (7)   Conservation easements. Conservation easements.
      (8)   Estate exclusion. A voluntary partition of land or subdivision of
land made for dividing the estate of a decedent among his or her heirs, whether
the decedent died testate or intestate. In the event of a transfer or division
of an estate in which interior parcels do not abut a public road, each such
parcel must have an approved access to a public road with a minimum of a 50-
foot right-of-way.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   TIMESHARE. A form of property ownership under which a property is held by a
number of people, each with the right of possession for a specified time
interval.
   TOURIST HOME. See BED AND BREAKFAST.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground to the
uppermost point of the tower, including the antennas and lightning rod.
   TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit as part of a structural arrangement of two or
more single family attached dwellings joined by common walls on not more than
two opposite sides with the uppermost story being a portion of the same
dwelling located directly beneath at the grade or first floor level and having
exclusive individual ownership and occupant rights of each dwelling unit
including, but not limited to, the land area directly beneath the dwelling.
Said units have separate entrances to the outside and are entirely separated
from each other by walls that meet North Carolina Building Standards.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure originally designed to transport something
or intended for human occupancy for short periods of time. TRAILERS shall
include the following:
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure manufactured of metal, wood,
canvas, plastic, or other materials, or any combination thereof, mounted on
wheels and designed for travel, recreation, or vacation use.
      (2)   HOUSE TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a wheeled
chassis, designed to be towed by a self-propelled vehicle for use for travel,
recreation, or vacation purposes, having a body width ten feet or less or a
body length 32 feet or less when equipped for road travel.
      (3)   TRAILER. A vehicle hauled by another vehicle; designed to transport
vehicles, boats, or material.
   USE. The purpose for which land or structures thereon are designed, arranged
or intended to be occupied or used; or for which it is occupied, maintained,
rented or leased.
   USE, SPECIAL. A use permitted in a zone only after specific findings by the
Board of Adjustment.
   USE BY RIGHT. A use, which is listed as a non-specially permitted activity
in this chapter.
   VARIANCE. A modification or alteration of any of the requirements of this
chapter.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or compartment in a building used for the deposit,
safekeeping or selling of goods.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface water drainage to a
specific point (e.g., the water supply intake, lake area).
   WETLANDS. Those areas that are defined as wetlands by the United States Army
Corps of Engineers from time to time.
   YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building and unoccupied from the
ground upward except by trees, shrubbery or fences.
   ZERO LOT LINE. A term generally used to describe the positioning of a
structure on a lot so that one side rests directly on the lot’s boundary line
(property line). Such construction is generally prohibited in many areas by
established setbacks, unless permitted as part of a planned unit development
(PUD) or similar development.
   ZONING. A police power measure, enacted primarily by general purpose units
of local government, in which the community is divided into zones or zones
within which permitted and special uses are established, as are regulations
governing lot size, building bulk, placement, and other development standards.
Requirements vary from zone to zone, but they must be uniform within zones
(Zoning Ordinance consists of text and a map).
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR (PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR OR DESIGNEE). The
person charged with the administration of this chapter. This definition may
include other Zoning Enforcement Officers; both the positions of the
Administrator and Enforcement Officer are sworn positions.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area established by this chapter where the individual
properties and their respective, permitted uses are established.
   ZONING PERMIT. An official certification that a proposed used of a building,
land, or sign conforms to provisions of this chapter. Such a certificate is
granted for new construction or for alterations or additions to existing
structures or a change in use. Unless such a permit is issued within the zoned
areas of Warren County (not inclusive of the Town of Warrenton and Town of
Norlina and their respective extraterritorial jurisdictions) a building permit
cannot be issued by the Warren County Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement
Department.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 157.025  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide an overview of requirements for
the county’s established zoning districts, definitions of the zoning districts,
dimensional requirements, and permitted uses for the zoning districts.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018 ; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.026  HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
    The district height limitations stipulated in Table II-1 may be exceeded,
but such modification shall be in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Special structures, such as elevator penthouses, gas tanks, grain
elevators, scenery lofts, radio and television receiving antennas,
manufacturing equipment and necessary mechanical appurtenances, cooling towers,
fire towers, substations, and smoke stacks, shall not exceed in height their
distance from the nearest lot line.
   (B)   Essential services, utilities, water towers, electric power and
communication transmission lines shall not exceed in height their distance from
the nearest lot line.
   (C)   Communication structures such as radio and television transmission and
relay towers, aerials, and observation towers shall not exceed in height their
distance from the nearest lot line.
   (D)   Agricultural structures, when applicable, such as barns, silos tanks
and windmills, shall not exceed in height their distance from the nearest lot
line.
   (E)   Public or quasi-public facilities, such as schools, churches,
hospitals, monuments, sanitariums, libraries, governmental offices, and
stations, may be erected to a height of 60 feet, in circumstances where the
structure exceeds 35 feet in height a fall zone buffer (defined in §§
157.005 and 155.010) shall be provided.
   (F)   For maximum height regulations, see also §
157.010 “building height,” “basement,” and “ground/grade level”. In areas
bordering Lake Gaston and Kerr Lake (zoned Residential Lakeside - RL) no more
than two stories in height are permitted, plus a basement which is that portion
of a building partially or completely below grade. All other areas of the
county may be a maximum of three stories plus a basement which is that portion
of a building partially or completely below grade.
   (G)   Height limit exceptions. Architectural projections, such as spires,
belfries, parapet walls, cupolas, domes, flues, and chimneys, shall not exceed
in height their distance from the nearest lot line. The other height
limitations contained in this chapter do not apply to spires, belfries,
cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, mechanical equipment
penthouses, or other appurtenances required to be placed above the roof level
and not intended for human occupancy.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.027  ACCESSORY USES.
    Accessory buildings and uses may be erected or permitted by this chapter
and shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   No separate accessory building or use shall be erected within ten feet
of any other buildings, or within ten feet from any property line; and
   (B)   The square footage of all non-farm accessory buildings or uses may not
exceed 75% of the permitted principal structure and improvement. This size
restriction shall not apply to accessory buildings for bona fide farms, as
defined in this chapter, where the accessory building is secondary to the
operation of the bona fide farm.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.028  MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
    Where a minimum lot width is specified in the regulations, it shall be
measured at the building line.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.029  ZONING DISTRICTS DEFINED.
   (A)   Agricultural Residential District (AR). This district is established
to promote a compatible mixture of agricultural, forestry, conservation and
very low-density residential uses. Preservation of prime farmlands, protection
of the environment and the continuation of rural lifestyles are the goals of
this district.
   (B)   Residential Lakeside District (RL). This district is established to
promote residential uses and protection of the environment in the areas of Lake
Gaston and Kerr Lake.
   (C)   Residential District (R). This district is established to promote,
protect and enhance residential development.
   (D)   Lakeside Group Camp District (GC). This district is established as a
camping district which will allow both permanent structures and temporary
camping facilities to encourage a combination of uses and facilities
appropriate for this district.
   (E)   Lakeside Tent or Trailer Camping District (TC). This district is
established as a camping district which will allow temporary camping facilities
for tents, trailers, and recreational vehicles (RVs).
   (F)   Lakeside Business District (LB). This district is established to
promote low-density business development around Lake Gaston and Kerr Lake while
protecting the environment.
   (G)   Neighborhood Business District (NB). This district is established to
provide commercial development compatible with the surrounding communities.
   (H)   Heavy Business District (HB). This district is established to promote
large-scale commercial development not otherwise classified as Neighborhood
Business (NB) commercial development compatible with the surrounding
communities. Permitted uses in this district shall comply with all local, state
and federal regulations regarding environmental protection and nuisance issues.
   (I)   Light Industrial District (LI). This district is established to
promote compatible locations for service, manufacturing, packaging, research
and development (R&D) and warehousing industries. Permitted uses in this
district shall comply with all local, state and federal regulations regarding
environmental protection and nuisance issues.
   (J)   Heavy Industrial District (HI). This district is established to
promote compatible locations for large-scale service, manufacturing, packaging,
research and development (R&D) and warehousing industries. Permitted uses in
this district shall comply with all local, state and federal regulations
regarding environmental protection and nuisance issues.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.030  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
    Warren County is hereby divided into zoning districts whose locations and
boundaries are shown on the official zoning map set forth as the appendix of
this chapter for the county which is adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter, attached and recorded in the minutes of the Board of
Commissioners. The map shall be identified by the signature of the Chairman,
attested by the Clerk, and bearing the Official Seal of Warren County under the
following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map of
the Zoning Ordinance for Warren County, North Carolina”. The date of adopting
shall also be shown. If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
changes are made in the zoning district boundaries or other information shown
on the map, such changes shall be made together with an entry on the map as
follows: “On (date) by official action of the Warren County Board of
Commissioners the following changes were made in the Official Zoning Map”; and
include a brief description of nature of change. The entry shall be signed by
the Chairman and attested by the Clerk. No amendment to this chapter which
involves information portrayed on the map shall become effective until after
such change and entry has been made on said map. The Board of Commissioners
shall give official notice of a zoning change to the Zoning Administrator
within 24 hours after passage of said zoning map, which shall be located in the
Planning and Zoning Administrator’s office. The official zoning map shall be
the final authority as to the current zoning status of land, water areas and
buildings in Warren County:
   (A)   Maintenance of the official zoning map. The Zoning Administrator shall
be responsible for the maintenance and revision of the official zoning map.
Upon notification by the Board of Commissioners that a zoning change has been
made, the Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary changes on the official
zoning map within 24 hours of notification.
   (B)   Replacement of official zoning map. In the event that the Official
Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret, the
Board of Commissioners may by ordinance adopt a new official zoning map, which
shall be the same in every detail as the map it supersedes. The new map shall
bear the signatures of the current Chairman and Clerk and shall bear the seal
of the County under the following words: “This is to certify that this Official
Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of
adoption of map replaced)”. The date of adoption of the new official zoning map
shall be shown also.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.031  RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
    For
Table II-1 Dimensional Requirement and
Table II-2 Permitted Uses , in addition to the information contained in these
tables, where district boundaries prove to be uncertain as to their location on
the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are
indicated on the zoning map as approximately parallel to or following the
center line of a street, highway, railroad right of way, utility easement,
stream bed or river bed, or such lines extended, then such lines shall be
construed to be such district boundaries.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated, as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following those boundaries.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following town limits or other
jurisdictional boundary shall be construed as following those boundaries.
   (D)   If a district boundary divides a lot, the requirement for the district
in which the greater portion of the lot lines shall be extended to the balance
of the lot, provided that such extension shall not include any part of such lot
which lies more than 50 feet beyond the district boundary, and further provided
that the remaining parcel shall not be less than the minimum required for the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.032  TABLE II-1 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
                                           Front    Side     ***
Zoning   Lot Size Density  Width   Depth   Setback  Setback  Rear     ** Height
District Minimum  per Acre Minimum Minimum (min.)   (min.)   Setback  (max.)
                                                             (min.)
                  Density                   Front    Side     ***      **
Zoning   Lot Size per     Width    Depth    Setback  Setback  Rear     Height
District Minimum  Acre    Minimum  Minimum  (min.)   (min.)   Setback  (max.)
                                                              (min.)
         30,000
         square           100 feet 200 feet
AR       feet     1.45    (well/   (well/   30 feet  10 feet  25 feet  35 feet
         (well/           septic)  septic)
         septic)
         20,000
         square           100 feet 150 feet
         feet     2.18    (public  (public
         (public          water/   water/
         water/           septic)  septic)
         septic)
         15,000
         square           80 feet  125 feet
         feet     2.9     (public  (public
         (public          water/   water/
         water/           sewer)   sewer)
         sewer)
         30,000
         square           100 feet 200 feet
RL       feet     1.45    (well/   (well/   30 feet  10 feet  25 feet  35 feet
         (well/           septic)  septic)
         septic)
         20,000
         square           100 feet 150 feet
         feet     2.18    (public  (public
         (public          water/   water/
         water/           septic)  septic)
         septic)
         15,000
         square           80 feet  125 feet
         feet     2.9     (public  (public
         (public          water/   water/
         water/           sewer)   sewer)
         sewer)
         30,000
         square           100 feet 200 feet
R        feet     1.45    (well/   (well/   30 feet  10 feet  25 feet  35 feet
         (well/           septic)  septic)
         septic)
         20,000
         square           100 feet 150 feet
         feet     2.18    (public  (public
         (public          water/   water/
         water/           septic)  septic)
         septic)
         15,000
         square           80 feet  125 feet
         feet     2.9     (public  (public
         (public          water/   water/
         water/           sewer)   sewer)
         sewer)
                  30
GC       15 acres persons N/A      N/A      200 feet 200 feet 100 feet 35 feet
                  per
                  acre
                  30
TC       15 acres persons N/A      N/A      50 feet  50 feet  50 feet  35 feet
                  per
                  acre
         1 acre
LB       (43,560  *       100 feet 200 feet 50 feet  50 feet  50 feet  55 feet
         square
         feet)
         1 acre                                      35 feet
NB       (43,560  *       100 feet 200 feet 50 feet  (corner  50 feet  55 feet
         square                                      lot=50
         feet)                                       feet
         1 acre
HB       (43,560  *       100 feet 200 feet 50 feet  50 feet  50 feet  100 feet
         square
         feet)
         2 acres                                     70 feet
LI       (87,120  *       200 feet 400 feet 100 feet (corner  100 feet 100 feet
         square                                      lot=100
         feet)                                       feet
         4 acres                                     150 feet
HI       (174,240 *       400 feet 800 feet 200 feet (corner  200 feet 100 feet
         square                                      lot=200
         feet)                                       feet
*All properties shall comply with the appropriate zoning district density and
impervious surface requirements as specified in this chapter and Table II-
1 above.
** For building height as noted in Table II-1 above the height shall be
measured at the front elevation of the structure.
*** For properties zoned RL (Residential Lakeside) and recorded on a lot of
record in the county’s Register of Deeds for plats prior to the effective date
of this chapter, the rear setback of 25 feet shall not apply to the side of the
property abutting Kerr Lake and Lake Gaston. All other regulations as written
in this chapter shall apply as of its effective date.
Note: at a minimum, appropriate silt fences (to retain sediment in place where
soil is being disturbed during construction) shall be required and maintained
for all new construction as of the effective date of this chapter.
Note: requirements pertain to individual lot development and subdivisions as
minimum standards.
 
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.033  TABLE II-2 PERMITTED USES.
USES AR RL R GC TC LB NB HB LI HI NOTES PER DISTRICT
USES                                                   AR RL R  GC TC LB NB HB LI HI NOTES PER DISTRICT
ABC stores                                             X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  X   
Accessory buildings and uses secondary to permitted    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   
uses
Accessory retail uses (e.g., cafeterias, gift and
souvenir shops, drink/snack bars for employees,        X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
patients, patrons, visitors in the principal building
- no exterior advertising)
Adult entertainment establishments                     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  SU SU SU 2,000 linear foot separation from the adjacent property line per SU.
Agricultural equipment sales and service               P  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Agricultural supply sales                              P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Airports, landing field, heliports, and helipads       SU X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Amusement parks with outdoor rides, bowling,
trampolines, miniature golf, concessions, swimming     X  X  X  X  X  SU SU SU X  X   
pools, arcades, and drive-in movie theaters
Animal hospitals and kennels (no animal storage/runs   P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  Distance from wells shall be maintained at a minimum of 100 feet per
shall be closer than 50 feet to any property line)                                   all applicable government requirements.
Apparel sales                                          X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  X   
Appliance distributors for wholesale                   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Appliances, sales/service                              X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Assembly halls, coliseums, stadiums, gymnasiums and                                  Buffering required per §
similar structures, grounds-facilities for open air    SU X  X  P  X  X  P  P  P  P  157.005. Hours of operation shall be compatible with adjacent land
games/sports                                                                         uses, noise levels shall comply with the county’s noise ordinance.
Assembly of machines/appliances from previously        X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
prepared parts
Automobile repair garages with outside storage of
wrecked or inoperable automobiles permitted only for
those in process of repair (vehicles shall be                                        No new operations within a one-half mile radius of an existing
concealed from view from a public street by a fence,   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  operation. Buffering required per §
wall, or evergreen at least eight feet high - use                                    157.005.
includes junk yard (§
157.010)
Automobile sales new/used, includes repair and parts   X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P   
                                                                                     No fuel pumps or storage tanks within 15 feet of any property line
Automobile service stations and self-service gas pumps X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  or street right-of-way (NC-DENR and NCDOT regulations apply, more
                                                                                     strict supersedes).
Automobile/truck assembly                              X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Bakeries                                               X  X  X  P  X  P  P  P  X  X   
Baking plants                                          X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Banks                                                  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  P   
Beauty/barber shops                                    X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Bed and breakfast establishment                        P  P  P  X  X  P  P  X  X  X   
Bedding, carpet and pillow manufacturing, cleaning and X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
renovating
Blacksmith or horse shoeing shops                      P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Blueprinting, bookbindery                              X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P   
Boat sales new/used, includes repairs, parts, and      X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  P   
sales
Bona fide farms (all zones except AR permit crops      P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  No commercial slaughter operations except where permitted in this
only, AR Zone permits commercial livestock production)                               Table (see food processing).
Bottling works                                         X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Building supply sales                                  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Business and professional offices                      X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  P   
Camps with sites for tents, camping trailers, and      X  X  X  X  P  X  X  X  X  X  Buffering required per §
recreational vehicles (RV)                                                           157.005.
Cemeteries, church association                         P  P  P  X  X  X  SU SU SU SU  
Cemeteries, commercial                                 SU X  X  X  X  X  SU SU SU SU  
Cemeteries, family                                     P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X   
Cemeteries, pet (commercial only)                      SU X  X  X  X  X  SU SU SU SU  
Churches (see §                                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   
157.010 for definitions)
Clothing manufacture, includes leather manufacturing   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Commercial cleaning operations                         X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Commercial livestock production (beef, poultry, pork,
and dairy operations for keeping, breeding, raising    P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  Buffering required per §
livestock for commercial purposes - this use includes                                157.005.
petting zoos)
Commercial marinas for launching/storage, rental,                                    No new commercial marinas within one linear mile measured on the
sale, or repair of boats                               X  X  X  X  X  P  X  X  X  X  same shoreline and one-half mile radius measure across from existing
                                                                                     marinas.
Community (private), county, or municipal sewage                                     Stations, plants, and facilities shall comply with all applicable
treatment plants, water treatment plants, water        P  P  P  P  X  X  X  P  P  P  government requirements.
pumping stations, sewage pumping stations
Convenience store with no petroleum (gas) sales        P  X  X  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   
Crematoria                                             X  X  X  X  X  X  SU SU P  P   
Day care and pre-school (day care facilities shall     P  P  P  P  X  P  P  P  P  P  Facilities shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
include those for seniors and handicapped persons)
Department and drug stores                             X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Dry cleaners/laundries                                 X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X  Water reservoir space shall equal five times the capacity of the
                                                                                     laundry.
Dwelling, single-family (stick built), manufactured    P  P  P  P  SU X  X  X  X  X   
home (single-wide or double-wide), modular
Dwelling, multi-family (includes apartments,           SU SU SU X  X  X  X  X  X  X   
condominiums, duplexes, triplexes, and townhomes)
Dwelling, temporary (manufactured/mobile homes)        SU SU SU P  SU X  X  X  X  X   
                                                                                     No new family care home or facility located within one- half mile
Family care home or facility                           P  P  P  X  X  X  P  P  X  X  radius of an existing family care home or facility. All such homes
                                                                                     or facilities shall comply with all applicable government
                                                                                     requirements.
Feed, grain, and fertilizer sales-storage              P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Fire stations, police, rescue squad/EMS, and civil     SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU Buffering required per §
defense stations                                                                     157.005.
Florist and gift shops                                 P  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  X  X   
Food and grocery stores                                X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Food processing in wholesale quantities, meat          X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  Buffering required per §
processing, packing, and slaughter                                                   157.005.
Frozen food lockers, cold storage plants               X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Fuel oil/kerosene or other Class III (National Board
of Fire Underwriters) flammable liquids: the
incidental sale in containers provided they comply     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  Buffering required per §
with applicable codes. Fuel oil/kerosene for heating                                 157.005.
purposes in above ground containers, provided they
comply with applicable codes
Funeral homes                                          X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P   
Furniture sales                                        X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Garbage and waste incinerators                         X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Gases or liquefied petroleum gases, for commercial
sale and storage, provided the same comply with                                      Buffering required per §
applicable codes combine with Class III gasoline       X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  157.005.
storage, underground, provided the same comply with
applicable state and federal codes
Government buildings (buildings used exclusively by    SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU Buffering required per §
government entities for public purposes)                                             157.005.
Greenhouses, cultivation facilities, and warehousing   P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P   
for wholesale and related retail trade
Group camp facilities (profit or non-profit basis) if
such camps use only permanent buildings rather than
tents/trailers. Non-profit youth organizations (Boy    X  X  X  P  X  X  X  X  X  X   
Scouts, Girl Scouts, and 4-H Clubs) may use land in
Lakeside Group Camp District for a temporary camp
using tents
Group home (also halfway house, see §§
157.009 and                                            SU SU SU X  X  X  SU SU X  X   
157.010)
Hardware stores                                        X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Homes for the aged, including retirement communities   P  P  P  X  X  X  P  P  X  X  Facilities shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
Home occupations (see §§
157.009 and                                            P  P  P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X   
157.010)
Hunting and fishing lodges (and related retail sales)  P  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X  X   
Jewelry sales, watch repair                            X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Laboratories for research and testing                  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Landfill (see §§                                                                   Facilities shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
157.009 and                                            X  X  X  X  X  X  X  SU SU SU Buffering required per §
157.010)                                                                             157.005.
Locksmiths and gunsmiths                               P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  Gunsmiths shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
Machine shops                                          P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Manufactured/mobile home parks                         SU SU SU X  X  X  X  X  X  X  Parks shall comply with
                                                                                     Chapter 152
Manufactured home sales lot                            X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P   
Manufacturing (heavy) or processing not otherwise                                    Buffering required per §
named herein which are in compliance with all local,   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  157.005.
state, and federal environmental regulations
Manufacturing (light) or processing not otherwise                                    Buffering required per §
named herein which are in compliance with all local,   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  157.005.
state, and federal environmental regulations
                                                                                     No sales, service, or repair activities, other than the rental of
Mini-storage warehouses                                X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  storage units, are permitted on the premises and storage of
                                                                                     hazardous materials shall be prohibited.
                                                                                     Facilities shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
Motels                                                 X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  X  X  Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Night clubs and bars                                   X  X  X  X  X  X  SU SU SU SU Facilities shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
Optical and scientific instrument, jewelry and clock,  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
musical instrument manufacture
Pharmaceutical products manufacturing                  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Planned unite development - Commercial Residential     X  X  X  X  X  SU SU X  X  X   
(PUD-CR)
Planned unit development - Residential (PUD-R)         SU SU SU X  X  X  X  X  X  X   
Public parks, picnic area, public swimming pools, and
locations for public access-boat launches (Lake        SU SU SU SU SU X  X  X  X  X  Facilities shall comply with all applicable government requirements.
Gaston, Kerr Lake)
Public and private clubs, golf courses (exclusive of
miniature golf courses and three par golf courses),    SU SU SU X  X  SU SU SU X  X   
and fishing clubs
Radio, television, microwave towers, high voltage                                    Required fall zone buffer. A land buffer around a tower base to
power lines, transmission towers cell towers, relay    P  X  X  P  P  SU SU SU SU SU provide for containment of the tower to the site in the event that
stations, and office and studios in conjunction with                                 it falls.
these
Repair and servicing of office and household equipment P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P   
Restaurants and catering establishments                X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P  P   
                                                                                     Facilities shall comply with all applicable county and state
Riding stables                                         P  SU SU P  P  X  X  X  X  X  regulations. Buffering required per §
                                                                                     157.005.
Schools, public and private                            P  SU SU SU X  SU SU X  X  X   
Shoe sales, repair                                     X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  X  X   
Shopping centers (see §§
157.009 and                                            X  X  X  X  X  X  SU P  X  X   
157.010)
Signs, only in compliance with §§
157.115 to                                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   
157.117
Sign painting, and sign manufacturing                  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P   
Solar farm - photovoltaic systems and related          SU X  X  X  X  SU SU SU SU SU Impervious surface requirements shall be met per the respective
equipment-structures for this use                                                    zoning district.
Solar farm - thermal system and related equipment-     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P   
structures for this use
Storage warehouses                                     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Substations, electric and related equipment structures SU SU SU X  X  SU SU SU SU SU Impervious surface requirements shall be met per the respective
for this use                                                                         zoning district.
Swimming clubs                                         SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU  
Temporary camp by a non-profit organization (see §§
157.009 and                                            SU X  X  P  P  X  X  X  X  X   
157.010)
Textile manufacture                                    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Timeshare                                              X  SU SU X  X  X  X  X  X  X   
Tobacco processing and storage                         P  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P   
Trash/garbage collection facilities, county                                          Facilities shall comply with all applicable county and state
convenience sites (recycling)                          P  P  P  P  X  X  X  P  P  P  regulations and §
                                                                                     157.005.
Water tanks and towers, but not service or storage     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  Required fall zone buffer around a tower base to provide for
yards or warehouses                                                                  containment of the tower within the site.
Woodworking shops, mill work                           P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P   
SU = Conditional use permit required (§§
157.045 to
157.073)
P = Permitted
X = Prohibited
Note: “all applicable government requirements” pertains to county, state, and federal.
 
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 157.045  PURPOSE.
   (A)   In addition to the uses listed in
Table II-2 Permitted Uses,  some uses due to their nature, are recognized as
having objectionable operational characteristics (when several such uses are
concentrated under certain circumstances, which may cause a negative effect
upon adjacent areas). Special regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure
that these negative effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading
of the surrounding neighborhood and communities. These special regulations are
itemized in this subchapter. The primary regulation is for the purpose of
preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area (i.e., not more than
one such use within a certain measured distance of each other which would
create an adverse effect) as well as potential increase in traffic/safety
issues and environmental issues. The requirements for each use that follows are
additional requirements to the requirements listed in §§
157.025 through
157.033. The following additional requirements only apply to those uses where a
special use permit is indicated in
Table II-2 with an SU notation. If an SU is approved, but the conditions
specified are not followed then the permit is revoked and subsequent action
taken under the authority of the Planning and Zoning Administrator as
identified in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.046  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)    No adult entertainment establishment may be located within 1,000
linear feet of another adult entertainment establishment, that distance shall
be measured from the exterior walls of the buildings containing such regulated
use.
   (B)   No adult entertainment establishment may be located within a building
that is in whole or in part located within 2,000 linear feet of a property line
of any residential use, residential unit(s), church, synagogue, temple, nursery
school, child care center and public or private school, camps (camping
districts), family care home/facility, or home for the aged (retirement
community) in zoning districts AR, RL, R, GC, TC, and LB, measured using the
shortest airline distance between the two points.
   (C)   Screening and buffering shall comply as specified in this chapter
under §
157.005.
   (D)   A required plan shall be submitted identifying the location of
existing structures on property within 1,000 linear feet of exterior wall(s) of
the permitted use, and the properties (with zoning district noted) within 2,000
linear feet of each property line of the permitted use from the property line
of the adjacent use.
   (E)   Hours of operation shall not continue past 2:00 a.m. and noise levels
shall comply with the Warren County Noise Ordinance as applicable.
   (F)   All viewing booths (if provided) shall be open and visible to the
manager(s) of the establishment.
   (G)   No viewing booth shall be occupied by more than one person.
   (H)   No nude or semi-nude service/entertainment of any kind shall be
allowed outside the building of a regulated use.
   (I)   The adult establishment shall be limited to one wall sign per premise;
the sign shall be internally lighted, and shall be allowed the maximum size of
20 square feet.
   (J)   No adult establishment shall allow, permit or condone patronage of any
person under the age of 18 years of age upon the premises of the business.
   (K)   All government regulations and requirements shall be adhered to by the
adult entertainment establishment regarding serving food and/or alcohol.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.047  AIRPORTS, LANDING FIELD, HELIPORTS, AND HELIPADS.
   (A)   Heliports (see §
157.010). Dimensional requirements for this use shall be a minimum site of five
acres. Setbacks from helicopter pads shall be at least 100 feet for each
helicopter operating from the facility, up to a maximum setback of 400 feet.
   (B)   Private landing strips. Dimensional requirements for this use shall be
a minimum of ten acres.
      (1)   An area equal to 15% of the runway length shall be within the site
at both ends of the runway.
      (2)   The setback from the runway shall be a minimum of 100 feet for each
aircraft operating from the facility, up to a maximum of 400 feet.
      (3)   No dwelling unit shall be within 500 feet of either end of the
runway.
   (C)   General aviation airport. Dimensional requirements for this use shall
be 100 acres. Development plans for this classification shall be submitted with
a noise impact assessment. Said assessment shall identify the initial 20-year
projected day-night level (DNL, see § 157.010) noise contour lines beginning
with 50 DNL and proceeding to 75 DNL.
      (1)   The 20 year, 70 DNL line shall be completely contained within the
airport property, or adjacent land that has been granted a noise easement.
      (2)   If the 55 DNL area expands, a land use plan for all land within the
55 DNL noise contour shall be submitted.
      (3)   This plan shall indicate the feasibility of restricting such land
to non-residential uses.
      (4)   Airport approval shall be based on the ability to minimize noise
intrusion (pollution) to existing residential areas and to prohibit residential
development that would limit future airport expansion.
      (5)   Once established, the county shall require all rezonings that would
permit residential use within the 20-year, 55 DNL noise contour to record the
noise contours on the property.
      (6)   All developments and all individual lot surveys would be required
to identify (illustrate) the noise contours, to be indicated on the preliminary
and final plats as reviewed by the Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement
Department, Planning Board and Board of Commissioners. In addition, to be
included on the final recorded plat for the development a warning would
accompany all such lots to indicate that the county will not limit future
airport expansion due to residential development within the 55 DNL noise
contour.
      (7)   This use (general aviation airport) shall be separated from all
residential districts and schools by a minimum of 1,500 feet.
      (8)   This use shall comply with all applicable requirements for line of
sight and regulations from the Department of Homeland Security and Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA).
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.048  AMUSEMENT PARKS.
   Amusement parks with outdoor rides, bowling, trampolines, miniature golf,
golf courses, concessions, swimming pools, and arcades are subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)    Hours of operation shall be between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Sunday
through Thursday, and until 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
   (B)   Noise levels shall comply with the Warren County Noise Ordinance.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall not grant the special use permit unless
it finds that the parking generated by the use can be accommodated without
undue disruption to or interference with the normal flow of traffic or with the
right of adjacent and surrounding property owners. Parking shall be in
compliance with the calculations as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from all exterior
property lines.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.049  ASSEMBLY HALLS, STADIUMS AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES.
   Assembly halls, coliseums, stadiums, gymnasiums and similar structures,
grounds-facilities for open air games/sports are subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Hours of operation shall be between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Sunday
through Thursday, and until 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
   (B)   Noise levels shall comply with the Warren County Noise Ordinance.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall not grant the special use permit unless
it finds that the parking generated by the use can be accommodated without
undue disruption to or interference with the normal flow of traffic or with the
right of adjacent and surrounding property owners. Parking shall be in
compliance with the calculations as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from all exterior
property lines.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.050  CEMETERIES.
   (A)   Church association cemeteries.
      (1)   Graves and crypts shall meet County Environmental Health Department
regulations for distance from wells/septic systems and shall meet county public
utilities regulations for distance from public water/sewer systems.
      (2)   Graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30 feet from exterior
property lines, as an alternative for setbacks along exterior property lines a
buffer in compliance with § 157.005 may be substituted.
   (B)   Commercial cemeteries.
      (1)   Graves and crypts shall meet County Environmental Health Department
regulations for distance from wells/septic systems and shall meet county public
utilities regulations for distance from public water/sewer systems.
      (2)   Graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30 feet from exterior
property lines, as an alternative for setbacks along exterior property lines a
buffer in compliance with §
157.005 may be substituted.
   (C)   Family cemeteries.
      (1)   Graves and crypts shall meet County Environmental Health Department
regulations for distance from wells/septic systems and shall meet county public
utilities regulations for distance from public water/sewer systems.
      (2)   Graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30 feet from exterior
property lines, as an alternative for setbacks along exterior property lines a
buffer in compliance with §
157.005 may be substituted.
   (D)   Pet cemeteries (commercial only).
      (1)   Graves and crypts shall meet County Environmental Health Department
regulations for distance from wells/septic systems and shall meet county public
utilities regulations for distance from public water/sewer systems.
      (2)   Graves and crypts shall be set back at least 30 feet from exterior
property lines, as an alternative for setbacks along exterior property lines a
buffer in compliance with §
157.005 may be substituted.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.051  DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME (SINGLE WIDE OR DOUBLE WIDE).
   (A)   This type of dwelling, as defined in this chapter, permitted as an
accessory use to the principle use of the property for the purpose of a
residence by the owner and or facility caretaker of the property.
   (B)   No more than one dwelling of this type shall be permitted for every
ten acres.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.052  DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   Multi-family dwellings include, as defined in this chapter, apartments,
condominiums, duplexes, triplexes, and townhomes, and are subject to the
following.
   (A)   The County Planning Board shall receive this request first and shall
make a recommendation to the Board of Adjustment within 30 days after its first
consideration.
   (B)   Minimum lot area: one acre.
   (C)   Parking shall comply with §§
157.085 and
157.086.
   (D)   Plans are required and must include: structures (location of
buildings, signs, and sign sizes), circulation (proposed points of access and
egress and pattern of internal circulation), and parking (layout of parking
spaces per §§
157.085 and
157.086).
   (E)   Maximum height (see §
157.010 “building height”, “basement”, and “ground/grade level”) in areas
bordering Lake Gaston and Kerr Lake is no more than two stories in height, plus
a basement which is that portion of a building partially or completely below
grade, all other areas of the county may be a maximum of three stories plus a
basement which is that portion of a building partially or completely below
grade level.
   (F)   Minimum building setbacks within the development and 20 feet combined
front and rear. Side setbacks may be zero for the interior side setback between
attached units where applicable for developments with multiple buildings on the
same lot, distances between structures shall comply (for the purposes of fire
safety/sprinkler systems) with the most current provisions of IBC
(International Building Code) and North Carolina State Building Code for
apartments and condominiums.
   (G)   Roadway setbacks shall be equal to those required for the appropriate
zoning category, unless the proposed development is a planned unit development
(PUD) and meets the conditions for that approval process, then the following
shall apply:
      (1)   From all other streets, the roadway setback between the front of
the dwelling and the roadway shall be no less than 18 feet when parking is
provided between the dwelling and the roadway, or ten feet when parking is not
provided between the dwelling and the roadway (at the rear of the property or
on the side of the property).
      (2)   When parking is provided between the dwelling and the roadway the
18 feet will be measured from the inside edge of the sidewalk or back of curb
if no sidewalk is required.
   (H)   Firewall requirements (individual units) must be provided in
accordance with the most current provisions of IBC (International Building
Code) and North Carolina State Building Code standards and when exterior walls
of individual dwelling units on individual parcels are placed within six feet
of one another.
   (I)   Permanent common open space required is 20% of the total parcel
proposed for development, excluding dedicated right-of-way. The Planning Board
may allow this requirement to be reduced to 10% of the total parcel area when a
portion of this common space preserves significant tree coverage located
outside of required buffers.
   (J)   Roof eaves may encroach two feet into an adjoining lot (in the same
project development only).
   (K)   A five-foot maintenance and access easement with a maximum eave
encroachment easement of two feet within the maintenance easement shall be
established on the adjoining lot and shall assure ready access to the lot line
wall at reasonable periods of the day for normal maintenance.
   (L)   Maximum density requirements of 12 dwelling units per gross acre with
a maximum number of units per building of eight and a maximum building height
of three stories, where the height shall be above grade, measured at the level
grade of the topographical surface.
   (M)   A setback of at least 30 feet shall be provided around the entire
perimeter of the site. Parking spaces and accessory buildings shall not be
allowed in the required yard.
   (N)   Access for emergency vehicles to all buildings in the complex shall be
provided.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.053  DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.
   (A)   This type of dwelling, as defined in this chapter, permitted as an
accessory use to the principle use of the property for the purpose of a
residence by the owner and or facility caretaker of the property.
   (B)   No more than one dwelling of this type shall be permitted for every
ten acres.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.054  DWELLING, TEMPORARY.
   (A)   Manufactured homes used as a residence, containing bathroom, kitchen
facilities, and established the principle building on a lot for a period not
exceeding one year, as a temporary residence for the owner/caretaker of the lot
(for temporary use only while the new construction or permanent residence is
being built, permit renewal as necessary).
   (B)   This type of dwelling, as a temporary use, is permitted only when
there is a principle (primary structure) building to be built on a single lot.
   (C)   The timeframe is for a period not exceeding one year, as a temporary
residence for the owner/caretaker of the lot (temporary use only while new
construction/permanent residence is built-with permit renewal as necessary).
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.055  FIRE STATIONS, POLICE, EMS, AND CIVIL DEFENSE STATIONS.
   Fire stations, police, EMS, and civil defense stations are subject to the
following.
   (A)   All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from all exterior
property lines (except where the zoning district specifies a greater minimum
setback distance).
   (B)   Off street parking area is provided on the same lot (parcel, property)
and be at least twice as large as the floor area in the building.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.056  GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
   Government buildings, buildings used exclusively by government entities for
public purposes, are subject to the following.
   (A)   All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from all exterior
property lines (except where the zoning district specifies a greater minimum
setback distance).
   (B)   Off street parking area is provided on the same lot (parcel, property)
and be at least twice as large as the floor area in the building.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.057  GROUP HOME.
   (A)   No new group home (also known as a halfway house) may be located
within one-half mile radius of an existing similar home or facility.
   (B)   A site plan shall be provided and indicating distances from existing
similar facilities, buffering requirements and parking as applicable with this
type of use in this chapter.
   (C)   Staffing shall be licensed staff, with appropriate safety and security
measures and in accordance with all applicable government regulations.
   (D)   All such homes or facilities shall comply with all applicable
government regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.058  LANDFILL.
   (A)   Distance requirements. The landfill or any structure must be a minimum
of 1,000 feet from any residential structure on surrounding properties. An
owner-occupied residence on the property of the tract is allowed. All
buildings, including accessory garages or storage buildings, shall be set back
a minimum of 100 feet from all property lines and street rights-of-way.
   (B)   Screening, buffering, and fencing. Outdoor storage must meet the
buffering requirements of this chapter. Screening is required which completely
screens from view the stored items. Such screening shall be a durable wall or
fence at least eight feet high in addition to a minimum 15-foot wide vegetated
strip around the entire perimeter of any outdoor storage area. This vegetated
strip shall consist of a naturally wooded area or planted with a mixture of
evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs to simulate a naturally wooded area.
   (C)   Gates. Any gates allowing for access must meet the same height
requirement and must be kept closed and locked after dark and at any time when
not open for business.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.059  MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Park development plan. A plan drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch equals 100 feet shall be submitted to the Board of Adjustment, as part of
the special use permit application/review process, for all new or expanded
mobile home parks to determine if the proposal meets the requirements of this
chapter, the plan should include:
      (1)   The name of the park, the names and addresses of the owner or
owners, and designer or surveyor;
      (2)   Date, scale and approximate north arrow;
      (3)   Site plan showing streets, driveways, recreation areas, parking
spaces, service buildings, water courses, easements, mobile home spaces, and
all structures to be located on the park site;
      (4)   Vicinity map showing the location of the park and the surrounding
land uses;
      (5)   Land contours with vertical intervals of not less than two feet for
all parks with 25 sites or more;
      (6)   Names of adjoining property owners;
      (7)   The proposed utility system for water, sewer, gas, surface water
drainage, streetlights, and electrical power.
         (a)   Certification of approval for water supply systems by the Warren
County Public Utilities Department and Warren County Environmental Health
Department as applicable if the development systems are to serve four and up to
15 sites. Development systems to serve 15 or more sites shall require review/
approval from the North Carolina Department of health and Human Services.
         (b)   Certification of approval for wastewater treatment and disposal
facilities from the Warren County Environmental Health Department if individual
septic tank systems are to be used for each site. Private wastewater treatment
facilities require review/approval from the North Carolina Department of Health
and Human Services.
         (c)   Certification of approval for solid waste storage, collection
and disposal plans from the Warren County Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Review of the proposed development plan. The Warren County Planning
and Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall transmit the proposed
plan and special use permit application to the Warren County Board of
Adjustment for review at the next scheduled meeting of the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall review the proposed plan and special
use permit to determine if the proposed plan/application is in accordance with
standards established in this subchapter and those noted above for the park
development plan):
         (a)   Tile information;
         (b)   Location map;
         (c)   Recreation areas;
         (d)   Street and lot design;
         (e)   Surface water drainage;
         (f)   Street lighting system;
         (g)   Other features of the park as noted above under division (A)
above.
      (2)   It is recommended that the park developer or his or her agent be
present to answer questions about the proposed development and plan.
   (C)   The proposed park development plan and special use permit application
shall be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment within 45 after submittal to the
Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her designee in order to follow the
public hearing process for a Special use permit as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   Upon completion of the public hearing process as indicated, approval
by the Board of Adjustment shall be submitted in writing to the park developer.
If the project is denied then the Board of Adjustment shall submit in writing
the reason for the denial to the applicant at a which time the applicant may
appeal to the Warren County Superior Court as outlined in this chapter.
   (E)   Upon approval of the park development plan and special use permit by
the Board of Adjustment and other agencies outlined in this subchapter as
applicable, the developer or his or her agent shall be permitted to initiate
obtaining the necessary building permits to construct the park with appropriate
inspections. This approval is to enable the execution of the park plan in the
field and shall not be construed as to entitle the recipient to offer spaces or
sites for rent or lease or to operate the manufactured/mobile home park until
the facilities as outlined in the section and the special use permit have been
constructed and passed final inspection by the appropriate agencies.
   (F)   After completion of the manufactured/mobile home park facilities the
developer shall follow all county procedures to initiate a final inspection of
the park in order to obtain a certificate of occupancy after inspection by the
County Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department. At this time individual
manufactured homes may be applied for to install on the individual sites by the
developer.
   (G)   When a manufactured/mobile home park is to be constructed within 50
feet of a recorded residential subdivision not naturally screened by a
vegetative buffer, the park developer shall install and maintain a 20 foot wide
vegetative buffer strip comprised of natural plantings or solid fencing at
least five feet in height to screen the adjacent subdivision. All other buffer
requirements as outlined in this chapter shall be adhered to.
   (H)   Within the manufactured/mobile home park, one manufactured home may be
used as an administrative office.
   (I)   For the convenience of the park residents a coin operated laundry is
permitted under the following restrictions:
      (1)   The facility shall be secondary to the residential use and
character of the park;
      (2)   The facility shall present no visible evidence of its commercial
intent beyond the confines of the park;
      (3)   The facility shall be designed to accommodate only the park
residents.
   (J)   Streets and parking. Access to each home site or space shall be
provided by streets/drives with a minimum right of way of 50 feet with the
construction standards meeting the same requirements as outlined in §
158.075(B) (Type I, Type II, Type III roads). Streets shall be designed to meet
NCDOT requirements for possible future acceptance to the secondary road system.
Maintenance of such streets shall be provided by the owner or operator of the
park.
      (1)   All required right-of-way widths shall have an all-weather surface
of gravel or equivalent material.
      (2)   Each lot in the park shall abut a street.
      (3)   Permanent dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 500 feet
in length and shall provide a turnaround of at least 80 feet in diameter.
   (K)   Each home shall be located at least 20 feet from any other home and 20
feet from any other permanent building within the park.
   (L)   Each lot or space shall meet the following minimum requirements for
design/capacity:
 
                                         Width    Depth
30,000 square feet (well/septic)         100 feet 200 feet
20,000 square feet (public water/septic) 100 feet 150 feet
15,000 square feet (public water/sewer)  100 feet 125 feet
 
   (M)   Each park shall provide 400 square feet of recreation area for each
manufactured home space that is less than 30,000 square feet in area. For lots
or spaces of 30,000 square feet or more in area, no recreation area shall be
required unless the park comprises more than 25 lots or spaces.
   (N)   Each lot or space shall not be located on ground susceptible to
flooding.
   (O)   Sewage (wastewater) disposal facilities shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   Adequate and sewage (wastewater) disposal facilities shall be
provided in all manufactured/mobile home parks. A sewerage collection system
shall be connected to a public or community sewerage system when such system is
available and within 500 feet of a park. When such connection to a public or
community system cannot be made, individual septic systems may be provided if
the County Department of Environmental Health determines the soil, topography
and groundwater conditions are favorable and issue an appropriate certificate
of compliance as necessary.
      (2)   All sewerage disposal systems shall be designed, constructed and
approved in accordance with the regulations for these systems as applicable
with the County Department of Environmental Health and North Carolina
Department of Health and Human Services under the provision of North Carolina
General Statutes as applicable. The provisions of these regulations, and all
amendments, are adopted by reference in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
§ 153A-47 and shall become part of this chapter as full as if set out herein.
      (3)   Each space or lot within the park shall be provided with at least a
four inch diameter sewer connection pipe where collection systems are provided.
The slope of any such portion thereof shall be at least one-fourth inch per
foot and shall consist of one pipe line only without any branch fittings. The
sewer riser pipe shall be so located on each space that the sewer connection to
the home drain outlet will approximate a vertical position, shall extend at
least four inches above ground level and shall have a concrete apron installed
around the riser pipe at grade level. The apron shall be a minimum of four
square feet in area (approximately two feet by two feet square) and shall be a
minimum of four inches in thickness.
      (4)   All joints in the sewer connection pipe and sewer riser pipe shall
be water tight and shall be constructed of similar approved materials. Pipe
used for the sewer riser and sewer connection piping shall be semi-rigid,
corrosion resistant, non-absorbent and durable. The inner lining shall be
smooth.
   (P)   Storage areas of all items of a temporary nature such as lumber, pipe
and other building materials stored for immediate use for construction shall be
so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage and shall be stored at least one
foot above ground.
   (Q)   Storage of all items of a permanent nature shall be in an approved,
portable building with closing and lockable doors.
   (R)   As the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials approved by the Warren County
Department of Environmental Health. The underside of all homes, buildings and
structures shall be underpinned or skirted of a material approve by the County
Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department (Code Enforcement Officers)
within 90 days after a home, building or structure has bene placed and/or set
up on a lot/space.
   (S)   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers, snakes and other noxious insects or reptiles and
to prevent the spread of fire. Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the
growth of ragweed, poison oak, poison ivy, poison sumac and other noxious weeds
considered detrimental to health. Open area shall be maintained free of heavy
undergrowth of any description.
   (T)   All streets within the park shall be adequately illuminated from
sunset to sunrise. The minimum size street light shall be a 175-watt mercury-
vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen class) or its equivalent and spaced at
intervals not to exceed 300 feet.
   (U)   Registration of occupants. Every park owner or operator shall maintain
an accurate register containing a record of all lessees or renters of spaces or
lots in the park. The register shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name of lessee or renter;
      (2)   Manufactured/mobile home space or lot number.
   (V)   Inspection.
      (1)   Field inspections/code enforcement staff of the County Department
of Environmental Health and County Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement
Department are hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are
necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and special use permit provisions as stated in this subchapter. It
shall be the duty of the owner(s) of the park to give these departments free
access to such premises at reasonable times for the purposes of inspection.
      (2)   The person(s) to whom a certificate of occupancy and an approved
special use permit for a manufactured/mobile home park are issued shall operate
the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate supervision
to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a
clean, sanitary condition.
   (W)   Existing manufactured/mobile home parks. Parks existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter shall be allowed to continue, but shall not be
allowed to expand or increase in any manner unless such expansion meets fully
the requirements of this chapter and subchapter.
   (X)   Variances. Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter
and section would cause unnecessary hardship of topographical or other
conditions peculiar to the site, the County Board of Adjustment may accept for
a review a request for a variance and in accordance with the review procedures
outlined in this chapter.
   (Y)   Penalty. Any person(s) violating the provisions of this chapter and
section on special use permit as stated for his use shall be subject to §§
157.130 through
157.135 and
157.999 as well as revocation of any approved certificate of occupancy permit
and special use permit for the park.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.060  NIGHT CLUBS AND BARS.
   (A)   No night club or bar may be located within 1,000 linear feet of
another night club or bar (on the same property), that distance shall be
measured from the exterior walls of the buildings containing such regulated
use.
   (B)   No night club or bar may be located within 2,000 linear feet, measured
from the adjacent property lines’ nearest edge (for adjacent property), of any
residential use, residential unit(s), church, synagogue, temple, nursery
school, child care center and public or private school, camps (camping
districts), family care home/facility, or home for the aged (retirement
community) in zoning districts AR, RL, R, GC, TC, and LB.
   (C)   Screening and buffering shall comply as necessary with this chapter
under §
157.005.
   (D)   A required plan shall be submitted identifying the location of
existing structures on the property within 1,000 linear feet of exterior wall
(s) of the regulated use, and the properties (with zoning district noted)
within 2,000 linear feet of each property line of the regulated use from the
property line of the adjacent use (adjacent properties).
   (E)   Hours of operation shall not continue past 2:00 a.m. and noise levels
shall comply with the Warren County Noise Ordinance as applicable.
   (F)   Servers of food and beverage shall at all times be fully clothed.
   (G)   The night club or bar shall be limited to one wall sign per premise
(see
Table V-1 Signs); the sign shall be internally lighted, and shall be allowed
maximum size of 20 square feet.
   (H)   No night club or bar shall allow, permit or condone patronage of any
person under the age of 18 years of age upon the premises of the business.
   (I)   All county and state regulations shall be adhered to by the night club
or bar, in regards to serving of food and/or alcohol.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.061  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Planned unit development - Commercial Residential (PUD-CR).
      (1)   Review. The Warren County Planning Board shall receive and review
requests for establishing (developing) a planned unit development - Commercial
Residential (PUD-CR) and shall make a recommendation to the Board of Adjustment
within 30 days after its first consideration.
      (2)   Minimum lot area: four acres.
      (3)   Permitted uses. A Planned Unit Development may contain any of the
permitted uses of the district in which it is allowed as a special use,
residential development may include:
         (a)   Townhouses. A dwelling unit as part of a structural arrangement
of two or more single family attached dwellings joined by common walls on not
more than two opposite sides with the uppermost story being a portion of the
same dwelling located directly beneath at the grade or first floor level and
having exclusive individual ownership and occupant rights of each dwelling unit
including, but not limited to, the land area directly beneath the dwelling.
Said units have separate entrances to the outside and are entirely separated
from each other by walls that meet North Carolina Building Standards. The
minimum number of townhouses attached to each other shall be two and the
maximum number shall be six. Density of townhouses in a planned unit
development shall not exceed 12 units per gross acre and a maximum number of
six units per building. Building height for townhouses is permitted up to
three  stories where the height shall be above grade (measured at the level
grade of the topographical surface) except where §
157.026 applies.
         (b)   The site area not covered by dwelling units may be made part of
the individual townhouse lots or clustered as common open space, dedicated to a
homeowner’s association, or combination of the two.
         (c)   Clustered detached single-family dwellings. These are dwellings
in which the lot size for each individual dwelling may be reduced, but may not
be less than 6,000 square feet provided that the difference between the
required dimensions for the district and the reduced dimensions is dedicated to
a homeowner’s association as common open space.
         (d)   Zero lot line dwellings. Detached single-family dwellings on
lots without side yard requirements on one side of the lot. The lot for a zero
lot line dwelling may be reduced, but may not be less than 6,000 square feet
provided that the difference between the required dimensions for the district
and the reduced dimensions is dedicated to a homeowners’ association as common
open space.
         (e)   Commercial uses. low intensity commercial uses that are listed
as permissible in either the Lakeside Business (LB) or Neighborhood Business
(NB) Districts identified in Table II-1 Dimensional Requirements and Table II-
2 Permitted Uses of this chapter. Building height for the PUD-CR may be
increased up to a maximum of 70 feet or five stories, whichever is lesser.
         (f)   Where a site development incorporates both commercial and
residential uses as indicated in this subchapter the impervious surface ratio
of 36% shall apply and a minimum of 15% green-space preservation shall apply.
   (B)   Planned unit development - Residential (PUD-R).
      (1)   Review. The Warren County Planning Board shall receive and review
requests for establishing (developing) a planned unit development (PUD) and
shall make a recommendation to the Board of Adjustment within 30 days after its
first consideration.
      (2)   Minimum lot area: two acres.
      (3)   Permitted uses. A planned unit development may contain any of the
permitted uses of the district in which it is allowed as a special use,
residential development may include any of the following:
         (a)   Townhouses. A dwelling unit as part of a structural arrangement
of two or more single family attached dwellings joined by common walls on not
more than two opposite sides with the uppermost story being a portion of the
same dwelling located directly beneath at the grade or first floor level and
having exclusive individual ownership and occupant rights of each dwelling unit
including, but not limited to, the land area directly beneath the dwelling.
Said units have separate entrances to the outside and are entirely separated
from each other by walls that meet North Carolina Building Standards. The
minimum number of townhouses attached to each other shall be two and the
maximum number shall be six. Density of townhouses in a planned unit
development shall not exceed 12 units per gross acre and a maximum number of
six units per building. Building height for townhouses is permitted up to three
stories where the height shall be above grade (measured at the level grade of
the topographical surface) except where §
157.026 applies.
         (b)   The site area not covered by dwelling units may be made part of
the individual townhouse lots or clustered as common open space and dedicated
to a homeowner’s association, or a combination of the two.
         (c)   Clustered detached single-family dwellings. These are dwellings
in which the lot size for each individual dwelling may be reduced, but may not
be less than 6,000 square feet provided that the difference between the
required dimensions for the district and the reduced dimensions is dedicated to
a homeowner’s association as common open space.
         (d)   Zero lot line dwellings. Detached single-family dwellings on
lots without side yard requirements on one side of the lot. The lot for a zero
lot line dwelling may be reduced, but may not be less than 6,000 square feet
provided that the difference between the required dimensions for the district
and the reduced dimensions is dedicated to a homeowners’ association as common
open space.
   (C)   Additional requirements. The North Carolina Planned Community Act
(G.S. Ch. 47F) shall apply. Common area and common open space shall be deeded
to a homeowner’s association and the developer or owner shall record with in
the County Register of Deeds office a declaration of covenants and restrictions
as well as regulations and by-laws that will govern the open space for the
development.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.062  PUBLIC PARKS AND THE LIKE.
   Public parks, picnic areas, public swimming pools, and locations for public
access (boat launches) are subject to the following.
   (A)   Buffering. Screening and buffering shall be required to meet the
requirements of this chapter, if the development is located within 100 feet of
the adjacent property line of an existing residential property.
   (B)   Lighting. Lighting must be directed away from adjacent property and
roadways. Lighting shall be directed onto the applicant’s site only.
   (C)   Access. Adequate space must be provided on the site that allows
vehicles to exit onto the street without backing into the road, highway, or
street.
   (D)   Parking. Requirements for parking shall meet the calculations outlined
in §§
157.085 and
157.086.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation are limited to 7:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m. with the exception of any use that may allow overnight stay.
   (F)   Setbacks. All buildings and swimming pools shall be set back a minimum
of 50 feet from all exterior property lines.
   (G)   Applicability. This type of use shall also comply with County Parks
and Recreation Department and Environmental Health (Health Department)
regulations as applicable.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.063  CLUBS, GOLF COURSES, AND FISHING CLUBS.
   Public and private clubs, golf courses (exclusive of miniature golf courses
and three par golf courses) and fishing clubs are subject to the following.
   (A)   Screening and buffering shall be required to meet the requirements of
this chapter, if the development is located within 100 feet of the adjacent
property line of an existing residential property, this buffer requirement
shall not apply to golf course communities.
   (B)   All buildings and swimming pools shall be set back a minimum of 50
feet from all exterior property lines.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.064  RADIO AND TELEVISION TOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   Radio, television, microwave towers, high voltage power lines, transmission
towers, cell towers, relay stations, and offices and studios in conjunction
with these uses are subject to the following.
   (A)   Towers shall not interfere with normal radio and television reception
in the vicinity. Commercial messages shall not be displayed on any tower.
Violations shall be considered zoning violations and shall be corrected under
the enforcement provisions.
   (B)   Lighting shall not exceed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
minimum if lighting is required by the FAA. The lights shall be oriented so as
not to project directly onto surrounding residential property, consistent with
FAA requirements. Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall
be required to submit documentation from the FAA that the lighting is the
minimum lighting required by the FAA.
   (C)   Towers shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with all
applicable building code requirements.
   (D)   In order to protect the public from unnecessary exposure to
electromagnetic radiation, the tower owner shall provide appropriate Federal
Communications Commissioner (FCC) documentation indicating that the power
output levels do not exceed federally approved levels.
   (E)   In allowed districts, towers of 75 feet or more require that a special
use permit be granted by the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment may
consider variances up to 10% of the setback requirements for such towers as a
part of the special use permit approval.
   (F)   To encourage shared use of towers, no new tower shall be located
within one mile of an existing tower. The Board of Adjustment may allow a tower
to be placed within one mile of an existing tower upon being presented written
documentation that (1) appropriate space on the tower is not available, (2) the
new sponsor has made good faith efforts to negotiate an agreement with the
owner of the current tower, or (3) equipment currently on the tower is not
compatible with the proposed equipment. If the petitioner cannot locate on an
existing tower and a new tower has to be constructed, the height of the tower
cannot exceed 200 feet.
   (G)   All new towers shall be constructed to be able to accommodate at least
two users so that future co-location will be available. In addition, reasonable
accommodation for public service uses is recommended.
   (H)   Towers shall conform to the following dimensional requirements:
      (1)   With the exception of concealed towers, such structures may not be
located on top of structures in any residential district. Towers which are
located on top of structures in nonresidential districts which are not tower
accessory structures shall not be more than 75 feet above the top of the
structure. The structure shall meet the normal setbacks of the zone.
      (2)   Those located on the ground or top of a tower accessory structure
are required to incorporate a fall zone buffer which is a land buffer around a
tower base to provide for containment of the tower to the site in the event
that it falls.
   (I)   To encourage shared use of towers, applications for towers which will
operate with more than one user, immediately upon completion may reduce
setbacks from adjacent non-residential property. The setback from adjacent
nonresidential property may be reduced by 25% when two users occupy the tower
immediately upon its completion, or reduced by 50% when three or more users
commit to occupy the tower immediately upon its completion. However, the
required setback distance may not be reduced to less than 50 feet. The
reductions do not apply if the tower adjoins a residential zone on any side and
a fall zone buffer as identified in this chapter shall be required.
   (J)   No setbacks shall be required if the tower is to be located on an
existing structure, and a fall zone buffer as identified in this chapter shall
be required.
   (K)   Towers (with the exception of concealed towers) where allowed in
residential districts shall conform to the following additional setback
requirements:
      (1)   To prevent a clear view of the base of the tower, the setback shall
contain an established forested area with a depth of at least 100 feet.
      (2)   When the 100 foot forested area requirement note above cannot be
met, a natural buffer shall be provided as required in this chapter.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment, when deciding the special use permit, may
reduce the setback adjacent to nonresidential property upon consideration of
circumstances which reduce the offsite effects of the tower such as topography,
berms, the proximity of other existing or potential uses, and existing
vegetation and improvements made to the site to obscure or reduce the
visibility of the tower (a fall zone buffer as identified in this chapter shall
be required).
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall not reduce the required setback from
adjacent property which has residential use.
   (L)   No outdoor storage yards shall be allowed on tower sites, storage
buildings that are secondary and/or incidental to the primary use of the site
are allowed within the provisions of the designated zoning category.
   (M)   The base of the tower, any guy wires, and any associated structures,
walls or fences shall be surrounded by a landscaped buffer. The developer may
have the option of: (1) providing a buffer around the tower base and associated
items individually or (2) providing a buffer around the perimeter of the entire
site. A ten-foot vegetative buffer shall be provided between the tower and the
property boundaries in all zones other than residential. In all residential
zones, the vegetative buffer shall be a minimum of 25 feet in width.
   (N)   The following information must be supplied with the site plan or
building permit application for towers that exceed 75 feet in height prior to
any approval:
      (1)   Identification of the intended user(s) of the tower.
      (2)   Documentation provided by registered engineer that the tower has
sufficient structural integrity to accommodate more than one user.
      (3)   Documentation by the applicant that no suitable existing facilities
within the coverage area are available to the applicant.
      (4)   A statement indicating the owner’s intent to allow shared use of
the tower and how many other users can be accommodated.
   (O)   To further encourage co-location, additional users and associated
equipment that do not add to the tower’s height may be added without additional
approval. However, additional building code regulations may apply. Site plans
must show the locations for at least two equipment buildings, even if the tower
is proposed for a single user.
   (P)   Towers that are not used for a period of six months or more shall be
removed by the owner within 180 days after receiving notice from the county to
remove the tower. To assure the removal of towers that do not meet requirements
for use or maintenance, this subchapter serves as notice that the County may
remove said tower and may file a lien collectable as taxes against the
property.
   (Q)   Additional requirements for special use permits for telecommunication
towers and equipment:
      (1)   When considering a special use permit request, the Board of
Adjustment shall be required to make a determination of the electromagnetic
field (EMF) effects of the tower on the health of the public.
      (2)   All property owners within a 1,500-foot radius and/or adjoining the
property where the tower is proposed shall be notified, in writing, of the
public hearings at which the application will be considered.
   (R)   Special use permits for all towers shall expire unless documentation,
including but not limited to an FCC license, is submitted each January to the
Board of Adjustment indicating that the tower is being utilized.
   (S)   The tower shall meet all other applicable supplementary requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.065  RIDING STABLES.
   (A)   All stables and exercise runs shall be set back at least 50 feet from
all exterior property lines.
   (B)   Buffering shall comply with §
157.005.
   (C)   Lighting shall be provided, if applicable, such that it is not
directed on to any adjacent residential lot or road.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.066  SCHOOLS.
   Public and private schools are subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   All buildings and swimming pools (when provided) shall be set back a
minimum of 50 feet from all exterior property lines.
   (B)   Buffering shall comply with §
157.005.
   (C)    Lighting shall be provided, if applicable, such that it is not
directed on to any adjacent residential lot or road.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.067  SHOPPING CENTERS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: five acres.
   (B)   Parking and loading shall comply with §§
157.085 and
157.086. One parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area and
one-off street loading space for each 20,000 square feet of gross floor area or
portion thereof.
   (C)   Plans are required and must show:
      (1)   Structures: location of buildings, signs, and sign sizes;
      (2)   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern of
internal circulation.
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Shopping centers shall contain only those uses permitted in the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   All setbacks shall be a minimum of 50 feet.
      (3)   Shopping centers adjoining any residential use shall provide an
eight feet high solid screen along the entire adjoining property lines, if not
already naturally screened.
      (4)   Topographical information with contour intervals two feet or less
shall be depicted on the site plan.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.068  SOLAR FARM.
   Solar farms, also known as solar energy systems (SESs) with photovoltaic
systems, are subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Setbacks: minimum of 50 feet from all property lines (inclusive of
equipment and fencing).
   (B)   Security: fencing shall be a minimum of six feet in height and secured
to reduce/eliminate trespassing.
   (C)   Height: maximum (not including power lines) of 15 feet.
   (D)   Buffers. Minimum requirements of this chapter shall be applied with
vegetative buffers having a minimum of three feet in height at the time of
project construction and reaching a minimum of eight feet in height within five
years.
      (1)   Landscaping including vegetative buffers, security fences and gates
shall be maintained for the duration of the solar farm operation, up to and
including decommissioning (dismantled/removed).
      (2)   Vegetative buffer shall be installed (exception granted if an
existing natural buffer meeting the requirements of this chapter exists)
surrounding the solar farm site to screen adjacent properties,  with the
exception of the entrance-road frontage of the lot or parcel where a buffer is
not required.
   (E)   Solar panels/arrays shall be constructed so as to minimize glare or
reflection onto adjacent properties and roadways.
   (F)   Decommissioning. The Planning and Zoning Administrator, or his or her
designee shall be advised, in writing within 30 days, by the solar farm
operator or property owners (whichever entity/party holds the zoning and
building permits holder) in the event the project is sold or otherwise
transferred to another entity/party and/or the current operator/owner abandons
the project.
      (1)   At the time of applying for permits the applicant (solar farm
developer or property owner) shall include a decommissioning plan with the
anticipated life expectancy of the solar farm and the anticipated cost in
current dollars, as well as the method(s) of insuring that funds will be
available for decommissioning and restoration of the project site to its
original, natural condition prior to the solar farm development.
      (2)   If the site is damaged, the solar farm operate shall have 12 months
to bring the project back to its operational capacity. If for any reason the
solar farm is not generating electricity after six months, the operator shall
have six months to complete decommissioning of the solar farm in compliance
with division (F)(1) above.
      (3)   In the event of bankruptcy or similar financial default of the
solar farm, the property owner of the project site shall bear the
decommissioning costs.
   (G)   Other applicable codes/inspections. All solar farms shall be in
compliance the requirements of the most current state building and electrical
codes, the State of North Carolina and Warren County.
      (1)   All active solar farms shall be inspected by a County Code
Enforcement Officer (Building Inspector) on an annual basis to ensure
compliance with applicable state building and electrical codes.
      (2)   Each solar farm shall be required to have the facility inspected
annually for three years by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her
designee following the issuance of the zoning permit or development permit
(applicable in the un-zoned areas of Warren County) to verify continued
compliance with the Zoning Ordinance or Solar Farm Ordinance as applicable.
      (3)   Additional inspections shall be conducted as necessary in the event
of complaints and shall not replace the noted inspections outlined in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.069  SUBSTITUTIONS, ELECTRIC.
   (A)   Setbacks. All buildings and ground mounted equipment shall be set back
minimum of 50 feet from all exterior property lines (except where the district
specifies a greater minimum setback distance).
   (B)   Height. Structure height shall not exceed the maximum height
requirements for the zoning district where the construction is located except
for associated transmission infrastructure and lightning masts.
   (C)   Buffer. Vegetative buffer of 20 feet (within the minimum setback
distances for that zoning district) shall be provided unless natural vegetation
exists that will meet this same requirement.
   (D)    Security fencing required.
   (E)   Service parking area shall be provided on the same lot (parcel,
property) and be at least twice as large as the structure footprint for the
buildings and ground mounted equipment on-site.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.070  STRIP CENTERS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: two acres.
   (B)   Parking and loading shall comply with §§
157.085 and
157.086. One parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area and
one-off street loading space for each 20,000 square feet of gross floor area or
portion thereof.
   (C)   Plans are required and must show:
      (1)   Structures: location of buildings, signs, and sign sizes;
      (2)   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern of
internal circulation.
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Shopping centers shall contain only those uses permitted in the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   All setbacks shall be a minimum of 50 feet.
      (3)   Shopping centers adjoining any residential use shall provide an
eight feet high solid wall along the entire adjoining property lines, if not
already naturally screened.
      (4)   Topographical information with contour intervals two feet or less
shall be depicted on the site plan.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.071  SWIMMING CLUBS.
   (A)   All buildings and swimming pools shall be set back a minimum of 50
feet from all exterior property lines.
   (B)   Buffering shall be required per §
157.005.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.072  TEMPORARY CAMP BY A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   A temporary camp operated by a non-profit youth organization (e.g.,
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, 4-H Clubs) shall be permitted for a period of time not
to exceed 14 days and not more than six times a year.
   (B)   This temporary camp shall utilize facilities, as permitted by the
County Department of Environmental Health and complying with County Planning/
Zoning and Code Enforcement Department for occupancy regulations for this type
of use.
   (C)   Temporary camps shall not involve the construction of permanent
buildings at the site.
   (D)   Buffering shall be required per §
157.005.
   (E)   Any event proposed with a density greater than that permitted under
“Dimensional Requirements” in the GC Zoning district shall be reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator to determine if any public safety issues
prior to issuing a temporary zoning permit.
   (F)   The applicant shall submit said request at least 14 calendar days
prior to the proposed event.
   (G)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall approve, deny, or approve
with conditions in written form no later than seven calendar days after
receiving the requested permit.
   (H)   Any decision may be appealed per procedures established in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.073  TIMESHARE.
   (A)   All requirements for subdivision development, per Chapter 158, shall
be met.
   (B)   Certificates of occupancy shall not be issued until the project is
completed with all amenities and infrastructure in place.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.085  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
    At the time of erection of any new building or the enlargement of an
existing building, permanent off-street parking shall be provided in all zoning
districts as specified by this subchapter.
   (A)   Each application or a zoning permit shall include information as to
the location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space, and the
means of ingress and egress to such space. This information shall be in
sufficient detail to determine whether the requirements of this subchapter are
met.
   (B)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use, except the one-half of the parking space required for
churches, theaters, or assembly halls, whose peak attendance is at night or
Sundays, may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night and/or
weekends.
   (C)   If the off-street parking space required by this chapter cannot be
reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, such
space may be provided on any land within 400 feet of the principle use or
building, provided such land is in the same ownership as the principal use.
Said land shall be used for no other purpose as long as the principal use
exists.
   (D)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required by this
subchapter shall be provided on the same lot with the principle use except as
provided above, and the required number of off-street parking spaces specified
for each use shall be considered as the absolute minimum.
Location Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Location                                Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Auto sales                              Four spaces for each salesman on the
                                        largest shift.
                                        One space per 200 square feet of area
Business and professional offices (such where primary business is routinely
as banks, savings and loan, real        conducted excluding such secondary area
estate, lawyers, insurance,             as storage areas, corridors,
governmental), personal service         stairwells, restrooms and
establishments (such as barber shop,    intermittently used meeting rooms or
beauty shop, shoe repair, dry cleaning, areas. In addition, one parking space
laundromat, etc.)                       shall be required for each employee who
                                        works regularly.
Churches, auditoriums, coliseums,       One space for each five fixed seating
stadiums, arenas, theaters, fraternal   spaces in the largest assembly area and
or social clubs                         one space for each 100 square feet used
                                        for assembly or dancing.
Commercial indoor recreation            One space for each 100 square feet of
                                        customer participation area.
                                        One space for each employee plus one
Day care centers                        off-street loading space per six
                                        individuals.
Dormitories                             One space for each two beds.
                                        Parking area equal to ten times the
Drive-in eating establishment           gross floor area in the principle
                                        building.
                                        Off-street movement lane to accommodate
Drive-in windows                        two cars to the front and two cars to
                                        the rear of each window.
                                        One space for each two employees, plus
Dry cleaners, laundries                 reservoir space equal to five times the
                                        capacity of the laundry.
                                        One space for each three seats in the
Funeral homes or mortuaries             chapel, plus off-street passenger
                                        loading accommodation for ten cars and
                                        one space for each two employees.
                                        One space for each 200 square feet on
                                        sales floor area below 5,000 square
Furniture stores                        feet plus one space for each 400 square
                                        feet above 5,000 square feet, plus one
                                        space for each two employees.
Golf courses, including miniature golf  Three spaces for each hole, plus one
                                        space for each two employees.
Homes for the aged including retirement One space for each four beds plus one
communities                             space, plus one space for each two
                                        employees.
                                        One off-street space for each person
Home occupations                        employed plus sufficient off-street
                                        spaces for patrons, not to be in a
                                        required front yard.
                                        One space for each bed, plus one space
Hospitals                               for each staff doctor, plus one space
                                        for each two employees on the largest
                                        shift.
Kindergartens, nurseries, elementary    Three spaces for each classroom plus
and junior high schools                 off-street passenger loading
                                        arrangements.
Library, museum, art gallery or other   One space for each 200 square feet of
cultural facility                       gross floor area for use by the public.
Medical offices and clinics             Four spaces for each doctor, plus one
                                        space for each employee.
Multi-family residences                 Two and one-half spaces for each
                                        dwelling unit.
Restaurants, excluding drive-in         One space for each three seats in the
                                        business.
                                        One space for each 200 square feet of
Retail stores, not otherwise specified  sales area in the building, plus one
                                        space for each two employees.
Senior high schools, trade and          Five spaces for each classroom plus
vocational schools, business and        off-street passenger loading
professional schools, colleges and      arrangements.
universities
Service station                         Four spaces for each grease or wash
                                        rack.
Single- and two-family residence        Two spaces for each dwelling unit.
Tourist homes and room renting          One space for each guest room, plus one
                                        space for each two employees.
                                        One space for each two employees plus
Wholesale establishments                one space for each 200 square feet of
                                        sales area.
 
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.086  OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)    Where off-street loading space is required in a particular zoning
district, one or more loading berths or other space shall be provided for
standing, loading and unloading operations either inside or outside a building
and on the same or adjoining premises. A loading berth shall have minimum plan
dimensions of 12 feet by 60 feet and 14 feet overhead clearance. A loading
space need not be necessarily a full berth but shall be sufficient to allow
normal loading and unloading operations of a kind and magnitude appropriate to
the property served. The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall determine the
sufficiency of loading space, but in no case shall the use of such space hinder
the free movement of vehicles and pedestrians over a street, sidewalk or alley.
The number of required off street loading spaces shall be as follows:
   (A)   Retail business. One space for each 20,000 square feet of gross floor
area, or fraction thereof.
   (B)   Wholesale trade/industries. One space for each 20,000 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof.
   (C)   Office or institution, including schools. One space for each 50,000
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 157.100  PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines that address non-
conforming uses, as stated in this chapter, as well as to minimize these uses
in the county.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.101  EFFECT UPON EXISTING NON-CONFORMING USES.
    Lots or structures that do not meet the minimum dimensional requirements of
this chapter, or the existing uses of lots or structures that would be
prohibited under the regulations of this chapter in the district in which they
are located may be used and continued provided they were lawfully constructed
or established prior to the date of passage of this chapter, except that:
   (A)   Such non-conforming uses may not be enlarged or extended in such a way
as to create any additional area of non-conformity;
   (B)   If a building occupied by a non-conforming use is destroyed by any
means to an extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of
destruction, such building may not be restored for any non-conforming use;
   (C)   Non-conforming open uses of land shall not be changed to any but
conforming uses, and shall not be enlarged to cover more land than was occupied
by that use at the date of passage of this chapter;
   (D)   When any non-conforming use is discontinued for a period more than one
year, any future use shall be limited to those uses permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located. Vacancy and/or non-use of the land or
structure, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, constitute
discontinuance under this subchapter;
   (E)   Where a non-conforming use of land or structure is changed to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter be used for any non-conforming use;
   (F)   When a non-conforming structure or manufactured home is moved from any
lot, for any reason, it shall only be replaced with a conforming structure;
   (G)   Vacant, unimproved lots, of a non-conforming square footage, which
have been previously approved or authorized by prior subdivision regulations or
actions of the County Planning Board or Board of County Commissioners may be
built upon if such improvements are otherwise in compliance with all current
setbacks, access and environmental health regulations;
   (H)   Existing structure(s) on lots of a non-conforming square footage may
be replaced or remodeled if such work is in compliance with all current
setbacks, access and environmental health regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
SIGNS
§ 157.115  SIGN COMPLIANCE.
    No type of exterior sign may be erected, posted, reposted, placed,
replaced, hung, painted, or repainted in any district except in compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.116  GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)    No sign shall be erected or constructed to interfere with visual
clearance at any street or road right of way.
   (B)   No sign except those erected for governmental purposes shall be
permitted on any public right of way.
   (C)   All signs shall be at least five feet from street right of way. Any
sign less than two feet from right of way after street widening may remain if,
in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Administrator said sign would not
encumber the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   All signs, together with any supports, braces, guys, and anchors shall
be kept in good repair. Signs shall meet all structural requirements of the
State Building Code.
   (E)   Illuminated signs shall be limited to those lighted from behind to
silhouette letters and figures and illuminated internally, except spotlighted
signs will be permitted if no glare is cast which is disturbing to motorists or
where it reflects on any property in separate ownership. All illuminated signs
or structures shall be placed to prevent the light rays or illumination from
being cast directly on any dwelling.
   (F)   No sign may exceed 12 feet in height above ground level or grade
level.
   (G)   No new off premise commercial signs (where the sign is not located on
the same site/property as the business being advertised) within a 350-foot
radius of an existing commercial sign. On-premise signs for the business
located on the same site/property are not subject to this distance requirement
and shall adhere to all other regulations as noted in this chapter.
   (H)   No more than one free-standing, on-premise commercial sign is
permitted per business/property (includes all commercial, industrial zoning
districts in this chapter).
   (I)   Window signs may be placed only on the inside of any buildings and
shall not exceed 25% of the glass area on which the sign is displayed.
   (J)   An identification sign shall pertain only to the name of the principle
use of the premises or its operators and shall not advertise products/services
differing from the principle use.
   (K)   No sign or advertisement on a sign shall be maintained for more than
90 days after it has been made obsolete for any reason or the sign is in a
state of disrepair as determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   (L)   The area of a sign, for the purpose of determining its permitted size
(i.e., sign area or sign face) shall be the advertisable surface and shall not
exceed shall not exceed 32 square feet in area with a maximum frame* size of
six inches. This includes any type of sign, bulletin board, billboard or kiosk
defined in this chapter and this measurement shall encompass only the
printable, advertising area of the sign (measurement does not include post
support ** for the sign).  See illustrations:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1208.png]
   (M)   V-shaped signs, quad-shaped signs, and double or triple, side-by-side
signs are prohibited. See illustrations below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1210.png]
   (N)    No temporary signs, banners or political signs meeting the size
requirements of this chapter shall remain on display for more than ten days
after the date of the advertised event.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)   Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.117  TABLE OF PERMITTED SIGNS.
    This table is provided to illustrate the types of signs that are permitted
in each zoning district.
   (A)   Districts in which particular signs are permitted as a use-by-right,
no permit is required as indicated by “BR”.
   (B)   Districts in which particular signs are permitted upon procurement of
a permit are indicated by “P”.
   (C)   Districts in which particular signs are permitted as a special use
upon approval of the Board of Adjustment are indicated by “SU”.
   (D)   Districts in which particular signs are prohibited are indicated by
an” X”.
Table V-1 Permitted Signs
Uses AR RL R GC TC LB NB HB LI HI
Table V-1 Permitted Signs
Uses                                              AR RL R  GC TC LB NB HB LI HI
One professional or announcement sign per
establishment or residence not exceeding three    BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
square feet in area mounted flat against a wall
or door hung from a mailbox or post.
Commercial real estate signs between five square
feet and 32 square feet in area which advertise
the sale, rental or lease of the business upon    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  BR BR
which said signs are temporarily located. One
onsite identification sign facing each public
street which adjoins the property.
Residential real estate signs not exceeding five
square feet in area which advertise the sale,     BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
rental or lease of the property upon which said
signs are temporarily located.
Church or public bulletin boards located on the
property not exceeding 32 square feet in area and BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
not placed closer than 15 feet from the property
line.
Directional or informational signs of a public or
quasi-public nature, not exceeding 12 square feet BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
in area.
Memorial signs, tablets, names of buildings and
date of construction when cut into any masonry    BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
surface or constructed of metal affixed flat
against a structure.
House numbers and names of occupants provided
such signs are mounted flat against a wall or     BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
door hung from a mailbox or post and that no sign
of this type exceeds three square feet in area.
Signs advertising agricultural products produced
on the premises not exceeding 32 square feet in   P  X  X  X  X  X  P  P  P  P
area.
Temporary construction sites placard not
exceeding 32 square feet in area and non-
illuminated only while construction is taking     P  SU SU P  P  P  P  P  P  P
place on the premises. One onsite identification
sign facing each public street which adjoins the
property.
Non-illuminated signs directing traffic and
pedestrians on private property not to exceed six BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR
square feet per sign.
Temporary single residence construction sites
sign not exceeding six square feet in area and
non-illuminated, to be removed when construction  BR BR BR BR BR X  X  X  X  X
is complete. One onsite identification sign
facing each public street which adjoins the
property.
Residential entrance and exit signs, not          BR BR BR BR BR X  X  X  X  X
exceeding 32 square feet in area.
One onsite industrial identification sign facing
each public street which adjoins the property,    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  P  P
not exceeding 32 square feet in area.
Signs on the walls of commercial buildings up to
a maximum of two square feet of area per lineal   SU X  X  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
foot of building frontage (only main entrance
wall of building used in computing frontage)
Signs mounted on a trailer, mobile framework, or
other movable apparatus, other than vehicles used
for transportation, are called portable signs and
are prohibited on a permanent basis. Such
portable signs will be permitted on a temporary   P  SU SU P  P  P  P  P  P  P
basis on the same property at grand openings,
open houses, or special events for a total of 28
days in a calendar year and not to exceed seven
days in any one period, and shall not exceed 32
square feet in area.
Billboards, per NCDOT requirements, with a county SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU
special use permit.
 
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.130  PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)    The Planning and Zoning Administrator is duly charged with
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator
finds that any of the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she
shall notify in writing, within ten working days, the person(s) responsible for
such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
(s) necessary to correct it. He/she shall also take any other action authorized
by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions.
   (B)   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision under this chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff
member or if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person
with whom the staff member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest, the
decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff person or such other
staff person as may be designated by the development regulation or other
ordinance.
   (C)   Inspections. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant
to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance
with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In
exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the
county at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials; provided, however,
that the appropriate consent has been given for inspection of areas not open to
the public or that an appropriate inspection warrant has been secured.
   (D)   Revocation of development approvals. In addition to initiation of
enforcement actions, development approvals may be revoked by the County
Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement by notifying the holder in writing stating
the reason for the revocation. County Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement
shall follow the same development review and approval process required for
issuance of the development approval, including any required notice or hearing,
in the review and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development
approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable local development regulation or any state
law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable State or local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a
development approval by a staff member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
405. If an appeal is filed regarding a development regulation adopted by a
local government pursuant to this chapter, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-405(e)
regarding stays apply.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.131  ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)    No building, sign, structure or any part thereof, designed or
intended to be used shall be erected or repaired until a zoning permit has been
issued by the Zoning Administrator or his or her authorized representative. A
fee shall be charged for the issuance of each zoning permit (see Warren County
Fee Schedule).
   (B)   Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by a plat,
drawn to scale, showing accurate dimensions of the lot to be built upon,
accurate dimensions of the lot to be built upon, accurate dimensions of the
building or sign to be erected, its location on the lot and such other
information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
An accurate record of such application and plats, together with a record of the
action taken, shall be kept in the Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement
Department.
   (C)   No permit for excavation, construction of any building, sign, part of
a building or sign, repairs to, alteration of a building, or sign or the
relocation of a building or sign from the lot on which it is situated, shall be
issued until a permit application has been properly filed by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.132  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)    No land shall be used or occupied and no building, sign, or structure
erected or altered nor shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating that the
building, sign, and/or the proposed use complies with the provisions of this
chapter. A certificate of the same shall be required for changing or extending
any non-conforming use. The aforementioned certificate shall be applied for
coincidentally with the application for a zoning permit and shall be issued
within ten working days after the erection or alterations of such building or
part shall have been competed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. A record of all such certificates shall be kept on file and copies
shall be furnished, upon request, to any person having a propriety or tenancy
interest in the building or land.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.133  NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   When staff determines work or activity has been undertaken in violation of
this chapter or other local development regulation or any state law delegated
to the County Planning and Zoning and Code Enforcement Department for
enforcement purposes in lieu of the state or in violation of the terms of a
development approval, a written notice of violation may be issued. The notice
of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and
to the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder
of the development approval, by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or
first-class mail and may be provided by similar means to the occupant of the
property or the person undertaking the work or activity. The notice of
violation may be posted on the property. The person providing the notice of
violation shall certify to the County Planning and Zoning and Code Enforcement
Department that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except as provided by G.S. §§ 160D-1123 or
160D-1206 or otherwise provided by law, a notice of violation may be appealed
to the board of adjustment pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.134  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   If the zoning permit and/or certificate of occupancy are denied, the
applicant may appeal the action of the Planning and Zoning Administrator to the
Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.135  ZONING PERMIT INVALID IF WORK NOT COMMENCED OR COMPLETED.
   Any zoning permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by
it shall have been commenced within six months of its date of issue or if the
work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year or if
such work is not completed within two years of the date of the issuance of the
zoning permit. Application may be made to the Zoning Administrator for a new
zoning permit to replace any permit, which shall become invalid.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 157.145  COMPOSITION.
   (A)    The Warren County Board of Commissioners shall create a Board of
Adjustment consisting of five members. The initial appointment to the Board of
Adjustment shall be as follows:
      (1)   Two members shall be appointed for three year terms.
      (2)   Two members shall be appointed for two year terms.
      (3)   One member shall be appointed for a one year term.
      (4)   Thereafter, all new terms shall be for three years, and members may
be reappointed.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall also appoint two alternate members to
serve in the absence of regular members. Both the initial appointment and new
terms shall be for three years, and alternate members may be reappointed. Each
alternate member, while attending any regular or special meeting of the Board
of Adjustment and serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and
may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (C)   All members, before entering their duties, shall take an oath of
office as required by G.S. § 153A-26.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.146  RULES FOR PROCEEDING OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
    The Board shall adopt rules governing its organization and for all
proceedings before it. These rules shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners. Such rules shall provide and require the following, in addition
to such other rules and regulations the Board shall adopt:
   (A)   The Board shall elect a Chairman, Vice-Chairman and a Secretary on an
annual basis.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep detailed minutes of the proceedings. The
minutes shall contain relevant facts and testimony of each appeal, the vote of
each member on each appeal, abstention from voting and attendance. The minutes
shall contain the signature of the Secretary and the Chairman.
   (C)   No appeal may be heard unless a quorum is present. A quorum shall
consist of three members in attendance.
   (D)   The notice of a board meeting shall be given to all parties having
interest in an appeal.
   (E)   Any interested party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney to
offer evidence and testimony relative to an appeal.
   (F)   Fees for appeals/applications to the Board of Adjustment include
variance applications, special use permit applications and appeals to the
determination of the Planning and Zoning Administrator (see Warren County Fee
Schedule).
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.147  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
    The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide any appeal from and review
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal, in specific cases, such variances
from the terms of this chapter which will not be contrary to the public
interest. Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provision of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship, a variance from
the terms of this chapter may be granted by the Board of Adjustment when a
written application demonstrates all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
this chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (C)   Conditions imposed on variances.
      (1)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards to ensure that substantial justice has
been done and that the public safety and welfare has been assured. Such
conditions may be imposed by the Board regarding the location, character, and
other features of the proposed building, structure, or use as may be deemed by
the Board to protect property values and general welfare of the neighborhood.
      (2)   Non-conformance with such conditions and safeguards, when under
part of the terms under which the variance is granted shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   In addition to the grounds of granting variance specified by state
law, the Board of Adjustment may approve a variance when it finds that approval
of the requested variance will cause no significant hazard, annoyance or
inconvenience to the owners or occupants of nearby property, will not
significantly change the character of the neighborhood or reduce the value of
nearby property, will not impose any significant cost burden upon the county
and will not create any significant obstacle to implementation of the County’s
Land Use Plan. The Board of Adjustment may attach any conditions to the grant
of a variance under this subchapter, which it may find necessary to ensure that
the intent and purpose of this chapter are observed in all respects.
   (D)   Special uses. To hear and decide request for special use permits
allowed by this chapter.
      (1)   Objectives and purpose. Special uses add flexibility to the
provisions of this chapter by permitting potential undesirable uses of property
in specified districts when certain conditions are met. By means of controls
exercised through the special use permit procedures, uses of property, which
would otherwise be undesirable in certain districts, can be developed to
minimize any negative effects they might have on surrounding properties.
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator may issue a special use
permit after approval by the Board of Adjustment for the uses as designated in
Table II-2 Permitted Uses. The application for a special use permit shall
accompany the application for a zoning permit. The Board of Adjustment shall
file the application for the special use permit ten working days before the
date of review. The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing before
rendering a decision on the special use permit, and if approved, shall include
approval of such plans as may be required. In approving the permit, the Board
of Adjustment shall find:
            1.   That the use will not materially endanger the public health,
safety or general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved.
            2.   That the use meets all required conditions.
            3.   That the location and character of the use, if developed
according to the plans as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the
area in which it is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of
development of the county.
         (b)   In approving the special use permit the Board of Adjustment may
designate such conditions, in addition and in connection therewith, as will, in
its opinion, assure that the use in its proposed location will be harmonious
and with the spirit and intent of this chapter. All such additional conditions
shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting, at which the special use permit
is granted, on the special use permit, and on the plans submitted therewith.
All conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the original
applicant for the special use permit, the heirs, successors and assigns. In
order to ensure that such conditions and requirements of each special use
permit will be fulfilled, the petitioner for the special use permit may be
required to provide physical improvements required as a basis for the issuance
of the special use permit.
         (c)   If the Board of Adjustment denies the special use permit, the
reasons shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting at which the permit is
denied and the applicant notified in writing including the appeals process as
outlined in this chapter.
         (d)   In addition to the specific conditions imposed by this chapter
whatever additional conditions the Board of Adjustment deems to be reasonable
and appropriate, special use shall comply with height, yard, area and parking
regulations of the zone in which they are located.
         (e)   In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the
Board of Adjustment, or with any conditions imposed upon the special use
permit, the permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect. No
zoning permits for further construction or certificate of occupancy/compliance
under the special use permit shall be issued, and the use of all completed
structures shall immediately cease and not thereafter be used for any purpose
other than a use-by-right as permitted by the zoning district in which the
property is located.
         (f)   Where plans are required to be submitted and approved as part of
the application for a special use permit, modifications of the original plans
may be made by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.148  VOTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)    The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be necessary to
grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to decide any
other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the nature of
certiorari. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the Board and
members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not
be considered members of the Board for calculation of the requisite majority if
there are no qualified alternates available to take the place of such members.
   (B)   Conflicts of interest.
      (1)   No member of the Board shall seek to influence a decision,
participate in any action or cast a vote involving any advisory decision or
matter that is before the Board where the outcome of the matter being
considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member. An appointed board member shall
not vote on any matter if the landowner of the property subject to action by
the Board is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or
other associational relationship.
      (2)   A member of any board exercising quasi-judicial functions pursuant
to this subchapter shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial
matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’ constitutional rights
to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
      (3)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board
member’s participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular
matter and that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining
members of the board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
      (4)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this subchapter, a CLOSE
FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law
relationships.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.149  APPEALS.
   (A)    Appeals from the enforcement and interpretation of this chapter, and
applications for special use permits or variances shall be filed with the
Planning and Zoning Administrator, who shall transmit all such records to the
Board of Adjustment within 30 days.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time, not to exceed 30
days, from the receipt of the records as noted in §
157.148(A) for the hearing of the appeal and publish notice of such hearing in
a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least five working days
prior to the hearing.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment, by a vote of at least four of its five
members, may reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator, or may decide in favor of the applicant a
matter upon which the Board is required to pass under this chapter, or may
grant a variance from the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Each decision of the Board of Adjustment is subject to review by the
County Superior Court. Any appeal to the Superior Court shall be taken within
30 days after the decision of the Board of Adjustment is filed in the Office of
the Zoning Administrator, or after written copy of the decision is delivered to
the appellant by registered mail, return receipt requested, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 157.999  PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty (see Warren County Fee Schedule)
which may be recovered by Warren County in a civil action in the nature of debt
instituted in the North Carolina General Court of Justice, if the penalty is
not paid within 15 days after the offender has been cited for violation of this
chapter. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense. Citations (see Warren County Fee Schedule) may be issued each day the
offense continues until the violations have ceased or abated. This amendment is
made by authority of G.S. § 153A-123.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section or §§
157.130 through
157.135 shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful actions as may
be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this chapter. In its
discretion, the county may proceed to enforce this chapter by either civil
penalties and/or citations.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2018; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
APPENDIX:  OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1178.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1180.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d295dc43e6db5feea46b2bfcc7e748a5cf94e645/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1182.jpg]
CHAPTER 158:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Title
   
158.002   Purpose
   
158.003   Authority and conflict of interest
   
158.004   Jurisdiction
   
158.005   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
158.006   Definitions
Compliance with Official Plans
   
158.015   Thoroughfare plans
   
158.016   School plans
   
158.017   Zoning and other plans
   
158.018   Exemptions and expedited review
   
158.019   Approval of public services
Procedure for Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
158.030   Plats required
   
158.031   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation
   
158.032   Procedures for the review of minor subdivisions
   
158.033   Major subdivision procedures
   
158.034   Preliminary plat
   
158.035   Final plat
Improvement Guarantees
   
158.050   Improvement guarantees required
   
158.051   Default
   
158.052   Release of guarantee security
   
158.053   Maintenance agreement and extension
   
158.054   Amount
   
158.055   Duration and coverage
   
158.056   Legal responsibilities and exclusion
Required Improvements and Minimum Standards of Design
   
158.065   General
   
158.066   Suitability of land
   
158.067   Name duplication
   
158.068   Subdivision design
   
158.069   Streets
   
158.070   Public or private street designation
   
158.071   Half-streets
   
158.072   Marginal access streets
   
158.073   Access to adjacent properties
   
158.074   Non-residential streets
   
158.075   Design standards
   
158.076   Other requirements
   
158.077   Utilities; water and sewer facilities
   
158.078   Fire protection requirements
   
158.079   Underground wiring
   
158.080   Buffering
   
158.081   Other requirements; placement of monuments
   
158.082   Construction procedures
Planned Developments
   
158.090   Planned developments
   
158.091   Exceptions for planned developments
Legal Provisions
   
158.100   Procedure for plat approval
   
158.101   Statement by owner
   
158.102   Effect of plat approval on dedication
   
158.103   Variance
   
158.104   Amendments
   
158.105   Abrogation
   
158.106   Abandonment of intent to repair
 
   
158.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   The subdivision regulations codified herein are based on an ordinance passed
March 1, 2010  and subsequently amended September 6, 2011 and March 12, 2012.
Future amendments will be noted at the end of affected sections.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001  TITLE.
   This document shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance” and may also be
referred to as “Subdivision Regulations for the Unincorporated Areas of Warren
County, Lake Gaston, Kerr Lake and the municipalities for which Subdivision
Administration is contracted”.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   Past and current development patterns in the county require that
consideration be given to guiding traffic patterns, preserving farm land, and
limiting land uses within appropriate land classifications, as it relates to
zoning and creating higher development standards. The design standards set
forth in this chapter aim for orderly growth and development of new
neighborhoods; the coordination of streets within proposed neighborhoods with
existing or planned streets and with other public facilities; the general
distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion
and overcrowding; the dedication or reservation of farmland, forests, natural
areas, parks, squares, and recreational areas, improved and accessible to all
residents of the neighborhood to serve as community focal points; and detailing
of the public domain of streets, parks, and squares to promote civic awareness
and responsibility, discourage high speed through traffic by encouraging speed
tables, and provide for pleasing visual environments that do not threaten
conditions essential to public health, safety, and the general welfare of the
citizens of the county.
   (B)   This chapter is designed to further ensure adequate and proper usage
of public water, public sewage (future), parks and open space and schools. The
allowance for subdividing large tracts of land into smaller parcels of land,
along with providing proper land records for the convenience of the public and
for better identification and permanent location of real property boundaries.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.003  AUTHORITY AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority and provisions of the G.S. Ch.
160D, Art. 8, in accordance with G.S. § 160D-109. A member of the Planning
Board shall not vote on any advisory or legislative decision regarding a
development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of
the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial,
and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A member of the
Planning Board shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the
property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment
is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.004  JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein shall govern each subdivision of land
within the county as provided in G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 8, except those lands
lying within the jurisdiction of any municipality, unless such municipality
shall have by resolution requesting the county to enforce these regulations
within the municipality’s area of jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.005  PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, the Planning Board shall approve
each individual subdivision plat or exempt plat of land in the county’s
jurisdiction or a review officer in the Planning and Zoning/Code Enforcement
Department shall approve its authorized representative prior to recordation and
each exempt plat.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.006  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A minor right-of-way privately or publicly owned, primarily for
service access to the back or side of properties.
      BUFFER STRIP. A solid fence or wall, or a planted strip at least five
feet in width composed of deciduous and/or evergreen trees spaced not more than
ten feet apart, and not less than one row of dense shrubs spaced not more than
five feet apart, which shall be established maintained in perpetuity by the
owner of the property whenever required under the terms and provisions of this
chapter.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in
front of which no structure shall be erected.
      CORNER LOT. A lot, which abuts the right-of-way of two streets at their
intersection.
      DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a
specified purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is
entailed, dedication must be made by written instrument and is completed with
an acceptance.
      DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot, which is accessible from
both streets upon which it fronts.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a
specified purpose and use by the public, a corporation, or persons.
      LOT. A portion of subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of Register of Deeds of Warren County prior to the
adoption of this chapter; or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
      OFFICIAL MAPS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the County
Commissioners as a guide to the development of the county.
      OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in man-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. The planned unit development of at least two
acres designed to provide for developments incorporating a single type or a
variety of residential, commercial, industrial, and related uses which are
planned and developed as a unit. Such development may consist of individual
lots or common building sites to affecting the long-term value of the entire
development.
      PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of Warren County.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land, which is to be or has been
subdivided.
      PRIVATE DRIVEWAY EASEMENT. A roadway serving three or fewer lots (50 feet
wide), building sites or other division of land and not intended, for public
ingress or egress.
      PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way, which affords access
to abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets disclosure statement
in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling
units and approved by the County Division of the District Health Department and
the North Carolina Department of Natural and Economic Resources.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
         (a)   A system for the provision to the public of piped water for
human consumption if such system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves and average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days
out of the year. Such term includes:
            1.   Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facility
under control of the operator of such system and use primarily in connection
with such systems; and
            2.   Any collection of pre-treatment storage facility not under
such control which is used primarily in connection with such systems.
         (b)   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either a "community water system" or a
"non-community water system." A community water system means a public water
system which serves at least 15 service connections or regularly serves at
least 25 year-round residents. A non-community water system means a PUBLIC
WATER SYSTEM that is not a community water system.
      RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various man-made features that accommodate such activities.
      RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of
property rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
      SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and which access from
the rear is usually prohibited.
      STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic. The following classification shall apply:
         (a)   RURAL ROADS.
            1.   LOCAL ROAD (LOCAL STREET). A road that serves primarily to
provide access to adjacent land and for travel over relatively short distances.
            2.   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road that serves major intra-county travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
            3.   MINOR ARTERIAL. A link in a network adjoining cities and
larger towns and providing intrastate and undercount service at relatively high
(55 mph) overall travel speeds with minimum interference through movement. This
network would primarily serve traffic.
            4.   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road that provides service to small local
communities and links the locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
            5.   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous
routes serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial state-wide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designed as principal arterials.
         (b)   SPECIFIC TYPE RURAL OR URBAN STREET.
            1.   ALLEY. A strip of land owned publicly or privately, set aside
primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties
otherwise abutting road which serves traffic with full or partial control of
access and generally with grade separations at intersections; however,
infrequent at-grade crossing may be permitted.
            2.   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic
and the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround
provided.
            3.   FREEWAY (LIMITED ACCESS). A divided street or road which
serves through traffic with full control of access and with grade separations
at intersections.
            4.   FRONTAGE, ROAD (MARGINAL ACCESS). A local street or road that
is parallel to a full or partial access-controlled facility and functions to
provide access to adjacent land.
      SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm, or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be subdivision as herein defined.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building site, or other divisions for the purpose of sale, lease, or
building development (whether immediate or future) and includes all divisions
of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing
streets; however, the following is not included within this definition and is
not subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this chapter:
         (a)   Combination/recombination. The combination or recombination of
portions of previously subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of
lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of the county as shown by the regulations prescribed by this chapter,
shall be exempt.
         (b)   Divisions greater than ten acres. The division of land into
parcels greater than ten acres where no street right-of-way dedication is
involved shall be exempt.
         (c)   Public acquisitions/right-of-way. The public acquisition by
purchase of strips of land for the widening or openings of street shall be
exempt.
         (d)   Lots of record not platted. Lots of record which were recorded
by a deed in the County Courthouse prior to the adoption of the subdivision
ordinance may have a plat prepared and recorded.
         (e)   Cemetery lots. Individual cemetery plots may be platted and
recorded that do not meet the minimum lot size requirement of the zoning
district in which it exists; however, the cemetery shall comply with the
applicable zoning district regulations.
         (f)   Utility easements/lease agreements. Utility easements shall be
shown on subdivision plats as required by this chapter; however, utility
easements and utility lease agreements for distribution boxes or structures
shall be exempt from the subdivision regulations.
         (g)   Conservation easements. Conservation easements.
         (h)   Estate exclusion. A voluntary partition of land or subdivision
of land made for dividing the estate of a decedent among his or her heirs,
whether the decedent died testate or intestate. In the event of a transfer or
division of an estate in which interior parcels do not abut a public road, each
such parcel must have an approved access to a public road with a minimum of a
50-foot right-of-way.
      TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee established to review minor
subdivisions to insure compliance with standards established by this chapter.
The TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE shall be composed of the following:
         (a)   Planning Director/Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Environmental Health Specialist; and
         (c)   Public Works Director.
   (B)   Word interpretation. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words
shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words
used in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction
of the wording indicates otherwise.
      (3)   The word PERSON includes firm, association, corporation, trust and
company, as well as an individual.
      (4)   The words USED FOR shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
      (5)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
      (6)   The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PARCEL, or TRACT.
      (7)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLANS
§ 158.015  THOROUGHFARE PLANS.
   Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of the thoroughfare, which
has been designated as such upon the officially adopted thoroughfare plan of
the county, such part of such thoroughfare shall be platted by the subdivider
in the location shown on the plan and at the width specified in this chapter.
However, no dedication of highway or street right-of-way shall be required
unless the dedication is reasonably related to the traffic generated by the
subdivision.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.016  SCHOOL PLANS.
   This chapter may provide for the reservation of school sites in accordance
with comprehensive land use plans approved by the planning agency. In order for
this authorization to become effective, before approving such plans the
planning agency and the Board of Education with jurisdiction over the area
shall jointly determine the specific locations and size of any school sites to
be reserved, which information shall appear in the comprehensive land use plan.
Whenever a subdivision is submitted for approval which includes part or all of
a school site to be reserved under the plan, the planning agency shall
immediately notify the Board of Education, and the Board shall promptly decide
whether it still wishes the site to be reserved. If the Board of Education does
not wish to reserve the site, it shall so notify the council or planning agency
and no site shall be reserved. If the Board does not wish to reserve the site,
the subdivision shall not be approved without such reservation. The Board of
education shall then have 18 months beginning on the date of final approval of
the subdivision within which to acquire the site by purchase or by initiating
condemnation proceedings. If the Board of Education has not purchased or begun
proceedings to condemn the site within 18 months, the subdivider may treat the
land as freed of the reservation.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.017  ZONING AND OTHER PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance, Manufactured Home Ordinance, Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, and ordinances applicable to the various towns with which the County
Planning Department is contracted to provide subdivision administration.
Additionally, per G.S. § 160D-910, the county may not adopt or enforce zoning
regulations or other provisions that have the effect of excluding manufactured
homes from the entire zoning jurisdiction or that exclude manufactured homes
based on the age of the home.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.018  EXEMPTIONS AND EXPEDITED REVIEW.
   The following types of plats shall be exempt from the review of the
requirements of this chapter, but shall comply with G.S. § 160D-802 and other
listed contents:
   (A)   Combination/recombination. The combination or recombination of
portions of previously subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of
lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of the county as shown by the regulations prescribed by this chapter,
shall be exempt.
   (B)   Divisions greater than ten acres. The division of land into parcels
greater than ten acres where no street right-of-way dedication is involved
shall be exempt.
   (C)   Public acquisitions/right-of-way. The public acquisition by purchase
of strips of land for the widening or openings of street shall be exempt.
   (D)   Lots of record not platted. Lots of record which were recorded by a
deed in the County Courthouse prior to the adoption of this chapter may have a
plat prepared and recorded.
   (E)   Cemetery lots. Individual cemetery plots may be platted and recorded
that do not meet the minimum lot size requirement of the zoning district in
which it exists; however, the cemetery shall comply with the applicable zoning
district regulations.
   (F)   Utility easements/lease agreements. Utility easements shall be shown
on subdivision plats as required by this chapter; however, utility easements
and utility lease agreements for distribution boxes or structures shall be
exempt from the subdivision regulations.
   (G)   Conservation easement. Conservation easement.
   (H)   Estate exclusion. A voluntary partition or subdividing of land made
for dividing the estate of a descendant among his or her heirs, whether the
descendant died testate or intestate. In the event of a transfer or division of
an estate in which interior parcels do not abut a public road, each such parcel
must have an approved access to a public road with a minimum of a 50-foot
right-of-way.
   (I)   Division of single tract. The division of a tract in single ownership
whose entire area is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots,
where no street right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant
lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the county, as shown in its
subdivision.
   (J)   Expedited review. The county may provide for expedited review of
specified classes of subdivisions.  The county may require only a plat for
recordation for the division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership
if all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under division
(B) above.
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
this section in the ten years prior to division.
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres.
      (4)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division.
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulations, if any;
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements, if any;
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
   (K)   Every exempt plat shall contain the following specific information:
      (1)   An accurately positioned north arrow coordinated with any bearings
shown on the plat. Indication shall be made as to whether the north index is
true, magnetic, North Carolina Grid ("NAD 83" or "NAD 27"), or is referenced to
old deed or plat bearings. If the north index is magnetic or referenced to old
deed or plat bearings, the date and the source (if known) the index was
originally determined shall be clearly indicated.
      (2)   The azimuth or course and distance of every property line surveyed
shall be shown. Distances shall be in feet or meters and decimals thereof. The
number of decimal places shall be appropriate to the class of survey required.
      (3)   All plat distances shall be by horizontal or grid measurements. All
lines shown on the plat shall be correctly plotted to the scale shown.
Enlargement of portions of a plat are acceptable in the interest of clarity,
where shown as inserts. Where the North Carolina Grid System is used, the grid
factor shall be shown on the face of the plat. If grid distances are used, it
must be shown on the plat.
      (4)   Where a boundary is formed by a curved line, the following data
must be given: actual survey data from the point of curvature to the point of
tangency shall be shown as standard curve data, or as a traverse of bearings
and distances around the curve. If standard curve data is used the bearing and
distance of the long chord (from point of curvature to point of tangency) must
be shown on the plat.
      (5)   Where a subdivision of land is set out on the plat, all streets and
lots shall be accurately plotted with dimension lines indicating widths and all
other information pertinent to reestablishing all lines in the field. This
shall include bearings and distances sufficient to form a continuous closure of
the entire perimeter.
      (6)   Where control corners have been established in compliance with G.S.
§§ 39-32.1 through  39-32.4, as amended, the location and pertinent information
as required in the reference statute shall be plotted on the plat. All other
corners, which are marked by monument or natural object, shall be so identified
on all plats, and where practical all corners of adjacent owners along the
boundary lines of the subject tract, which are marked by monument or natural
object, shall be shown.
      (7)   The names of adjacent landowners, or lot, block, parcel,
subdivision designations or other legal reference where applicable, shall be
shown where the surveyor could determine them.
      (8)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses, utilities,
roadways, and other such improvements shall be accurately located where
crossing or forming any boundary line of the property shown.
      (9)   Where the plat is the result of a survey, one or more corners
shall, by a system of azimuths or courses and distances, be accurately tied to
and coordinated with a horizontal control monument of some United States or
state agency survey system, such as the North Carolina Geodetic Survey where
the monument is within 2,000 feet of the subject property. Where the North
Carolina Grid System coordinates of the monument are on file in the North
Carolina Office of State Budget and Management, the coordinates of both the
referenced corner and the monuments used shall be shown in X (easting) and Y
(northing) coordinates on the plat. The coordinates shall be identified as
based on "NAD83", indicating North American Datum of 1983, or as "NAD 27",
indicating North American Datum of 1927. The tie lines to the monuments shall
also be sufficient to establish true north or grid north bearings for the plat
if the monuments exist in pairs. Within a previously recorded subdivision that
has been tied to grid control, control monuments within the subdivision may be
used in lieu of additional ties to grid control. Within a previously recorded
subdivision that has not been tied to grid control, if horizontal control
monuments are available within 2,000 feet, the above requirements shall be met;
but in the interest of bearing consistency with previously recorded plats,
existing bearing control should be used where practical. In the absence of grid
control, other appropriate natural monuments or landmarks shall be used. In all
cases, the tie lines shall be sufficient to accurately reproduce the subject
lands from the control or reference points used.
      (10)   A vicinity map (location map) shall appear on the plat.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.019  APPROVAL OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   No building permits shall be issued, nor shall water, sewer, or other county
facilities or services be extended to or connected with any subdivision for
which a plat is required to be approved unless and until such plat has been
approved by the Planning Board or its agent and recorded in the Warren County
Register of Deeds Office.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 158.030  PLATS REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-803, all final plats shall be prepared, approved,
and recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any
subdivision of land takes place in the county. Plats shall bear the Review
Officer and Planning Board Representative or its authorized representative’s
signature prior to recordation in the Register of Deeds office.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.031  APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-803, no final plat of a subdivision of land located
within the jurisdiction of the county, as established in §§
158.015 through
158.019, shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of Warren County until it
has been approved by the Planning Board or its authorized representative as
provided herein. To secure such approval of a final plat the subdivider shall
follow the procedures established in this subchapter, including review fees
established and approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.032  PROCEDURES FOR THE REVIEW OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   In an effort to simplify and condense the review for small subdivisions of
land within the county, which will have little, or no impact on the county
development process, minor subdivisions of land shall comply with the following
procedures and only require that a final plat submitted for approval.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions. To qualify as a minor subdivision, for review and
approval by the Planning and Zoning Administrator (or his or her designee) of
the Planning/Zoning and Code Enforcement Department and not requiring Planning
Board review/approval, the minor subdivision must meet all of the following:
      (1)   No new public or private streets, roads, or rights-of-way shall be
created;
      (2)   No extension of water and sewer will be required;
      (3)   No more than nine lots (the tenth lot triggers Type III roads) be
established;
      (4)   No environmental issues exist that would require additional county
or state review and approval;
      (5)   For the expansion of pre-existing private streets, roads, rights-
of-way or access easement (as noted under division (1) above) to the 50-foot
minimum requirement for new lots per this chapter, the Planning and Zoning
Administrator (or his or her designee) as indicated in this section shall have
the authority to review and approve the proposed minor subdivision in keeping
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   When a proposed minor subdivision does not meet the provisions of
this chapter, it shall be submitted by the Planning and Zoning Administrator
(or his or her designee) to the Planning Board for review and consideration of
approval.
   (B)   The subdivider or agent shall discuss any proposed minor subdivision
with Planning and Zoning staff to ensure that the proposed subdivision
qualifies as a minor subdivision and that the requirements and procedures
necessary to gain approval of the subdivision are clear.
   (C)   The final plat for a minor subdivision shall be prepared by a
professional land surveyor licensed to practice in North Carolina and suitable
for recording in the Register of Deeds Office and in conformance with G.S. §
47-30.
   (D)   The subdivider shall submit three copies and one final mylar plat
suitable for reproduction to county planning staff for Technical Review
Committee review. Staff shall transmit copies of the proposed plat to the
Technical Review Committee (TRC) for their review and input.
   (E)   The final plat for a minor subdivision shall bear the following
applicable content prior to submittal for review and approval:
      (1)   Tax map number;
      (2)   Name of subdivision or subdivider and contact information (address
and phone number);
      (3)   Graphic scale;
      (4)   Plat preparation date and revision;
      (5)   Deed reference for the tract being subdivided;
      (6)   Name(s) of adjacent subdivisions and property owners;
      (7)   Name of professional land surveyor, certified engineer or certified
architect, with address and phone number of each;
      (8)   Existing structures;
      (9)   Map minimum size: 18 inches by 24 inches;
      (10)   Zoning classification, when applicable;
      (11)   Minimum building setback lines or typical building envelop in
margin;
      (12)   Lot lines and lot numbers;
      (13)   Township;
      (14)   Floodplain statement (zone, panel number, effective date, type of
flood hazard: 1% or .2%);
      (15)   Computer generated exempt statement;
      (16)   Label the type of plat: utility easement, recombination, cemetery;
      (17)   Accurately positioned north arrow coordinated with any bearings
shown on the plat. Indication shall be made as to whether the north index is
true, magnetic, North Carolina Grid ("NAD 83" or "NAD 27"), or is referenced to
old deed or plat bearings. If the north index is magnetic or referenced to old
deed or plat bearings, the date and the source (if known) the index was
originally determined shall be clearly indicated;
      (18)   The azimuth or course and distance of every property line surveyed
shall be shown. Distances shall be in feet;
      (19)   All plat distances shall be by horizontal or grid measurements.
All lines shown on the plat shall be correctly plotted to the scale shown.
Enlargement of portions of a plat are acceptable in the interest of clarity,
where shown as inserts. Where the North Carolina Grid System is used, the grid
factor shall be shown on the face of the plat. If grid distances are used, it
must be shown on the plat;
      (20)   Where a curved line forms a boundary, the following data must be
given: actual survey data from the point of curvature to the point of tangency
shall be shown as standard curve data, or as a traverse of bearings and
distances around the curve. If standard curve data is used the bearing and
distance of the long chord (from point of curvature to point of tangency) must
be shown on the plat;
      (21)   All streets shall be labeled (name and number) and lots shall be
accurately plotted with dimension lines indicating widths and all other
information pertinent to reestablishing all lines in the field;
      (22)   Proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants;
      (23)   Where control corners have been established in compliance with
G.S. §§ 39-32.1 through  39-32.4, as amended, the location and pertinent
information as required in the reference statute shall be plotted on the plat.
All other corners, which are marked by monument or natural object, shall be so
identified on all plats, and where practical all corners of adjacent owners
along the boundary lines of the subject tract, which are marked by monument or
natural object, shall be shown;
      (24)   The names of adjacent landowners, lot, block, parcel, subdivision
designations;
      (25)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses/ponds, and
lakes shall be labeled as such. Utility power lines shall be labeled (power
company name). Roadways and other such improvements shall be accurately located
where crossing or forming any boundary line of the property shown;
      (26)   Any lot(s) within an area of special flood hazard shall have the
appropriate elevation certificates attached to the plat, using the newest FEMA
version of the elevation certificate or associated documents (LOMA, LODR, LOMR,
etc.), the zone and the elevation on the plat;
      (27)   One or more corners shall, by a system of azimuths or courses and
distances, be accurately tied to and coordinated with a horizontal control
monument of some United States or state agency survey system, such as the North
Carolina Geodetic Survey where the monument is within 2,000 feet of the subject
property. Where the North Carolina Grid System coordinates of the monument are
on file in the North Carolina Office of State Budget and Management, the
coordinates of both the referenced corner and the monuments used shall be shown
in X (easting) and Y (northing) coordinates on the plat. The coordinates shall
be identified as based on "NAD 83", indicating North American Datum of 1983, or
as "NAD 27", indicating North American Datum of 1927 or the most recent datum.
The tie lines to the monuments shall also be sufficient to establish true north
or grid north bearings for the plat if the monuments exist in pairs. Within a
previously recorded subdivision that has been tied to grid control, control
monuments within the subdivision may be used in lieu of additional ties to grid
control.  Within a previously recorded subdivision that has not been tied to
grid control, if horizontal control monuments are available within 2,000 feet,
the above requirements shall be met; but in the interest of bearing consistency
with previously recorded plats, existing bearing control should be used where
practical. In the absence of grid control, other appropriate natural monuments
or landmarks shall be used. In all cases, the tie lines shall be sufficient to
accurately reproduce the subject lands from the control or reference points
used;
      (28)   A vicinity map (location map) shall appear on the plat;
      (29)   Any lot determined to be within an area of special flood hazard
should have a statement regarding the panel number, location of the SFHA, a
completed elevation certificate or associated documents (LOMA, LODR, LOMR,
etc.), the zone and the elevation on the plat;
      (30)   Any street proposed to intersect with a state-maintained road (SR)
shall be have an attached approved driveway permit from the North Carolina
Department of Transportation;
      (31)   Remaining total acreage.
   (F)   Certifications.
      CERTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP AND DEDICATION
      I, (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property
shown and described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of
Warren County and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent, established minimum building setback lines, and dedicate
all streets, alleys, walks, parks and other sites and easements to public or
private use as noted.
      ________________________________________
      Date/Owner(s)
      CERTIFICATION BY THE REVIEW OFFICER
      State of North Carolina
      County of Warren
      I, _________________, Review Officer of Warren County, certify that the
map or plat to which this certification is affixed meets all statutory
requirements for recording.
      ____________________________________ ______________
      Review Officer/Date
      CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY AND ACCURACY
      I ________, a professional land surveyor, certify that this plat was (1)
drawn under my supervision from an actual survey made under my supervision
(deed description recorded in Book ___, Page ___, etc.) (Other); that the
boundaries not surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found
in Book ___, Page ___,; (2) that the ratio of precision as calculated is 1:
___; (3) that this plat was prepared in accordance with G.S.47-30 as amended.
Witness my original signature, registration number and seal this ___day
of_______, 20___.
      (Seal or Stamp) ______________________________________
      Surveyor Registration No.
      DEDICATION OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      The ______________ subdivision will be served by the following: (Check 2
of 4); Central Water System ____; Central Sewer System ____; Individual Water
Well ____; and/or Individual Septic Tanks ____. These improvements are proposed
to be installed ____; these improvements are installed ____.
      ______________________________________
      Date/Owner/Developer
      CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL FOR RECORDING
      I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations of Warren County, with all variances
noted in the minutes of the Warren County Planning Board, and that this map has
been approved for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds.
      ___________________________________________
      Date/Warren County Planning Board Representative
   (G)   Within 45 days of submission, the final plat shall be reviewed by the
Technical Review Committee. The Planning Board may, upon recommendation of the
Technical Review Board, contact the State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors for any suspected non-compliance.
   (H)   Minor plat approval. If the final plat is in compliance with the
ordinance, the staff of the Planning and Code Enforcement Department shall
approve the final plat. Approval of the final plat is authorization for the
plat to be filed with the Register of Deeds.
      (1)   Approval of the final plat allows improvement permits to be issued.
      (2)   This approval shall be noted on the original and two copies of the
final plat, one paper copy shall be retained for the permanent file of the
Planning Board, and one mylar copy and one paper copy transmitted to the Warren
County Register of Deeds for certification.
      (3)   No final plat shall be approved until it meets the requirements set
forth, all required fees have been paid, and certificates required by this
chapter to appear on the final plat have been properly filled out, dated and
signed.
      (4)   If the final minor subdivision plat is not in compliance with these
regulations is disapproved by the staff of the Planning and Code Enforcement
Department, the reasons for disapproval and conditions to be met before the
Technical Review Committee will approve the plat, shall be noted on two copies
of the proposed final plat. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and
one copy shall be retained by the Planning Department.
      (5)   The owner/subdivider shall have sixty days to record the final plat
from the date of approval; if not said plat shall then become void.
   (I)   The approval of a final plat pursuant to regulations adopted under
this subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute or affect the acceptance by
the county or the public of dedication of any street or other ground, public
utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat, for the purpose of
maintenance.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.033  MAJOR SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Sketch design plan. Prior to submitting a preliminary plat, the
subdivider is encouraged to prepare and submit to the Planning Board a sketch
design plat of the proposed subdivision at a regular meeting of the Planning
Board. At this meeting, the subdivider should explain his or her plat, answer
questions about it and advise the Planning Board of any variations from these
subdivision regulations. This procedure does not require application or fee.
   (B)   Number of copies and graphic media. A minimum of nine copies of a
sketch design plat shall be submitted. No specific graphic media must be
employed.
   (C)   Size of plan and scale. No specific size of scale requirement applies
to sketch design plans; it is suggested that the requirements applicable to
preliminary and final plats be utilized.
   (D)   Administrative fee. No administrative fees are charged in connection
with the submission of sketch design plans.
   (E)   Certification required. Certificates are not required in connection
with the submission of sketch design plans.
   (F)   Contents required. The sketch design plan shall depict or contain the
following information:
      (1)   Tax map number;
      (2)   Name of subdivision or subdivider and contact information (address
and phone number);
      (3)   Graphic scale;
      (4)   Plat preparation date;
      (5)   Deed reference for the tract being subdivided;
      (6)   Name(s) of adjacent subdivisions and property owners;
      (7)   Name of professional land surveyor, certified engineer or certified
architect, with address and phone number of each;
      (8)   Existing structures;
      (9)   Map minimum size 18 inches by 24 inches;
      (10)   Zoning classification, when applicable;
      (11)   Minimum building setback lines or typical building envelop in
margin;
      (12)   Lot lines and lot numbers;
      (13)   Township;
      (14)   Floodplain statement (zone, panel number, effective date, type of
flood hazard: 1% or .2%);
      (15)   Computer generated exempt statement;
      (16)   Label the type of plat: utility easement, recombination, cemetery;
      (17)   Accurately positioned north arrow coordinated with any bearings
shown on the plat. Indication shall be made as to whether the north index is
true, magnetic, North Carolina Grid ("NAD 83" or "NAD 27"), or is referenced to
old deed or plat bearings. If the north index is magnetic or referenced to old
deed or plat bearings, the date and the source (if known) the index was
originally determined shall be clearly indicated;
      (18)   The azimuth or course and distance of every property line surveyed
shall be shown. Distances shall be in feet;
      (19)   All plat distances shall be by horizontal or grid measurements.
All lines shown on the plat shall be correctly plotted to the scale shown.
Enlargement of portions of a plat are acceptable in the interest of clarity,
where shown as inserts. Where the North Carolina Grid System is used, the grid
factor shall be shown on the face of the plat. If grid distances are used, it
must be shown on the plat;
      (20)   Where a boundary is formed by a curved line, the following data
must be given: actual survey data from the point of curvature to the point of
tangency shall be shown as standard curve data, or as a traverse of bearings
and distances around the curve. If standard curve data is used the bearing and
distance of the long chord (from point of curvature to point of tangency) must
be shown on the plat;
      (21)   All streets shall be labeled (name and number) and lots shall be
accurately plotted with dimension lines indicating widths and all other
information pertinent to reestablishing all lines in the field;
      (22)   Proposed deed restriction or similar covenants;
      (23)   Where control corners have been established in compliance with
G.S. §§ 39-32.1 through 39-32.4, as amended, the location and pertinent
information as required in the reference statute shall be plotted on the plat.
All other corners, which are marked by monument or natural object, shall be so
identified on all plats, and where practical all corners of adjacent owners
along the boundary lines of the subject tract, which are marked by monument or
natural object, shall be shown;
      (24)   The names of adjacent landowners, lot, block parcel, subdivision
designations;
      (25)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses/ponds, and
lakes shall be labeled as such. Utility power lines shall be labeled (power
company name). Roadways and other such improvements shall be accurately located
where crossing or forming any boundary line of the property shown;
      (26)   One or more corners shall, by a system of azimuths or courses and
distances, be accurately tied to and coordinated with a horizontal control
monument of some United States or state agency survey system, such as the North
Carolina Geodetic Survey where the monument is within 2,000 feet of the subject
property. Where the North Carolina Grid System coordinates of the monument are
on file in the North Carolina Office of State Budget and Management, the
coordinates of both the referenced corner and the monuments used shall be shown
in X (easting) and Y (northing) coordinates on the plat. The coordinates shall
be identified as based on "NAD 83", indicating North American Datum of 1983, or
as "NAD 27", indicating North American Datum of 1927 or the most recent datum.
The tie lines to the monuments shall also be sufficient to establish true north
or grid north bearings for the plat if the monuments exist in pairs. Within a
previously recorded subdivision that has been tied to grid control, control
monuments within the subdivision may be used in lieu of additional ties to grid
control. Within a previously recorded subdivision that has not been tied to
grid control, if horizontal control monuments are available within 2,000 feet,
the above requirements shall be met; but in the interest of bearing consistency
with previously recorded plats, existing bearing control should be used where
practical. In the absence of grid control, other appropriate natural monuments
or landmarks shall be used. In all cases, the tie lines shall be sufficient to
accurately reproduce the subject lands from the control or reference points
used;
      (27)   A vicinity map (location map) shall appear on the plat;
      (28)   Any lot(s) within an area of special flood hazard shall have the
appropriate elevation certificates attached to the plat, using the newest FEMA
version of the elevation certificate or associated documents (LOMA, LODR, LOMR,
etc.), the zone and the elevation on the plat;
      (29)   Any street proposed to intersect with a state-maintained road (SR)
shall be have an attached approved driveway permit from the North Carolina
Department of Transportation.
   (G)   Review procedure. The Planning Board shall review the sketch design
plat for general compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the
zoning ordinance; the Planning Board shall advise the subdivider or his
authorized agent of the regulations pertaining to be followed in the
subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and submission
of the preliminary and final plats. This review shall in no way be construed as
constituting an official action of approval for recording of the subdivision by
the Planning Board or County Commissioners as required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.034  PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The subdivider’s duly authorized agent shall submit nine copies of the
preliminary plat and any supplementary materials to the Planning Board at least
11 days prior to a regular meeting of the Board every subdivision of land which
is located within the territorial jurisdiction established by §
158.004. A current plat receipt/meeting schedule is available at the Planning
Department.
   (A)   Number of copies and graphic media. At least nine copies of the
preliminary plat shall be submitted; no specific graphic media must be
employed. These nine copies shall be disposed as provided in division (G)
below. The Planning Board may require the subdivider to provide additional
copies.
   (B)   Size of plat and scale. No specific dimensional requirements apply to
preliminary plats. The preliminary plat shall be prepared at a scale of one
inch equals 100 feet or greater.
   (C)   Administrative fees. The administrative fees shall be charged in
connection with the submission of preliminary plats.
   (D)   Certifications required. Certifications are not required with the
submission of preliminary plats.
   (E)   Contents required. The preliminary plat shall be so marked and shall
depict or contain the following information; plats not illustrating or
containing the following data shall be returned to the subdivider, or his
authorized agent for completion and re-submission:
      (1)   Tax map number;
      (2)   Name of subdivision or subdivider and contact information (address
and phone number);
      (3)   Graphic scale;
      (4)   Plat preparation date;
      (5)   Deed reference for the tract being subdivided;
      (6)   Name(s) of adjacent subdivisions and property owners;
      (7)   Name of professional land surveyor, certified engineer or certified
architect, with address and phone number of each;
      (8)   Existing structures;
      (9)   Map minimum size: 18 inches by 24 inches;
      (10)   Zoning classification, when applicable;
      (11)   Minimum building setback lines on each lot;
      (12)   Lot lines and lot numbers;
      (13)   Townships;
      (14)   Floodplain statement (zone, panel number, effective date, type of
flood hazard: 1% or .2%);
      (15)   Computer generated exempt statement;
      (16)   Label the type of plat: utility easement, recombination, cemetery;
      (17)   Accurately positioned north arrow coordinated with any bearings
shown on the plat. Indication shall be made as to whether the north index is
true, magnetic, North Carolina Grid ("NAD 83" or "NAD 27"), or is referenced to
old deed or plat bearings. If the north index is magnetic or referenced to old
deed or plat bearings, the date and the source (if known) the index was
originally determined shall be clearly indicated;
      (18)   The azimuth or course and distance of every property line surveyed
shall be shown. Distances shall be in feet;
      (19)   All plat distances shall be by horizontal or grid measurements.
All lines shown on the plat shall be correctly plotted to the scale shown.
Enlargement of portions of a plat are acceptable in the interest of clarity,
where shown as inserts. Where the North Carolina Grid System is used, the grid
factor shall be shown on the face of the plat. If grid distances are used, it
must be shown on the plat;
      (20)   Where a boundary is formed by a curved line, the following data
must be given: actual survey data from the point of curvature to the point of
tangency shall be shown as standard curve data, or as a traverse of bearings
and distances around the curve. If standard curve data is used the bearing and
distance of the long chord (from point of curvature to point of tangency) must
be shown on the plat;
      (21)   All streets shall be labeled (name and number) and lots shall be
accurately plotted with dimension lines indicating widths and all other
information pertinent to reestablishing all lines in the field;
      (22)   Proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants;
      (23)   Where control corners have been established in compliance with
G.S. §§ 39-32.1 through 39-32.4, as amended, the location and pertinent
information as required in the reference statute shall be plotted on the plat.
All other corners, which are marked by monument or natural object, shall be so
identified on all plats, and where practical all corners of adjacent owners
along the boundary lines of the subject tract, which are marked by monument or
natural object, shall be shown;
      (24)   The names of adjacent landowners, lot, block, parcel, subdivision
designations;
      (25)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses/ponds, and
lakes shall be labeled as such. Utility power lines shall be labeled (power
company name). Roadways and other such improvements shall be accurately located
where crossing or forming any boundary line of the property shown;
      (26)   One or more corners shall, by a system of azimuths or courses and
distances, be accurately tied to and coordinated with a horizontal control
monument of some United States or state agency survey system, such as the North
Carolina Geodetic Survey where the monument is within 2,000 feet of the subject
property. Where the North Carolina Grid System coordinates of the monument are
on file in the North Carolina Office of State Budget and Management, the
coordinates of both the referenced corner and the monuments used shall be shown
in X (easting) and Y (northing) coordinates on the plat. The coordinates shall
be identified as based on "NAD 83", indicating North American Datum of 1983, or
as "NAD 27", indicating North American Datum of 1927 or the most recent datum.
The tie lines to the monuments shall also be sufficient to establish true north
or grid north bearings for the plat if the monuments exist in pairs. Within a
previously recorded subdivision that has been tied to grid control, control
monuments within the subdivision may be used in lieu of additional ties to grid
control. Within a previously recorded subdivision that has not been tied to
grid control, if horizontal control monuments are available within 2,000 feet,
the above requirements shall be met; but in the interest of bearing consistency
with previously recorded plats, existing bearing control should be used where
practical. In the absence of grid control, other appropriate natural monuments
or landmarks shall be used. In all cases, the tie lines shall be sufficient to
accurately reproduce the subject lands from the control or reference points
used;
      (27)   A vicinity map (location map) shall appear on the plat;
      (28)   Any lot determined to be within an area of special flood hazard
should have a statement regarding the panel number, location of the SFHA, a
completed elevation certificate or associated documents (LOMA, LODR, LOMR,
etc.), the zone and the elevation on the plat;
      (29)   Any street proposed to intersect with a state-maintained road (SR)
shall be have an attached approved driveway permit from the North Carolina
Department of Transportation;
      (30)   The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and on
adjoining properties;
      (31)   Proposed location and size of parks, school sites, or other
recreational or open spaces, if any, and their future ownership;
      (32)   Any proposed green space, walking or riding trails, natural
buffers, pedestrian, bicycle or other right-of-way utility or easements, their
location, width, and purposes;
      (33)   Proposed streets, existing and platted streets on adjoining
properties and in the propose subdivision, rights-of-way, pavement widths,
approximate grades, design engineering data for all corners and curves, and
typical street cross sections. If any street is proposed to intersect with a
state-maintained road, the plat shall be accompanied by an application for
driveway approval as required by the Department of Transportation, Division of
Highway’s Manual on Driveway Regulations;
      (34)   Existing and proposed lines, both on the tract to be subdivided
and on adjoining properties, building or other structures, water courses,
railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, both the land to be subdivided and
on the immediately adjoining corporate limits, township boundaries, county
lines;
      (35)   Any lot(s) within an area of special flood hazard shall have the
appropriate elevation certificates attached to the plat, using the newest FEMA
version of the elevation certificate;
      (36)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a copy of any
proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants (mandatory when private
recreation areas are established);
      (37)   Date of plat preparation;
      (38)   The name(s) of the township(s), county, and state in which the
subdivision is located;
      (39)   The name(s), addressees) and telephone number(s) of the owner(s),
registered land surveyor(s), land planner(s), architect(s), landscape architect
(s), and professional engineer(s) responsible for the subdivision;
      (40)   Topographic map showing vertical contours every ten feet.
   (F)   Review procedure. The Planning Board shall review and take action on
each preliminary plat within 45 days after first consideration by the Planning
Board. First consideration may be at the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Planning Board that follows at least 14 days after the plat is submitted.
Before taking final action of the plat, the Planning Board may refer copies of
the plat and any accompanying material to those public officials and agencies
concerned with the new development, including but not limited to, County
Manager, County Environmental Health, County School Board, the District
Engineer of the North Carolina Department of Transportation (four copies), and
the appropriate county soil conservation service office, for review and
recommendation.
   (G)   Disposition of copies. If the preliminary plat is approved, the
Planning Board Representative shall note approval on at least two copies of the
plat. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the Planning Board shall
retain one copy. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the Planning Board
shall specify the reasons for such action. The Planning Board shall retain one
copy and one copy shall be given to the subdivider. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved, the subdivider may make the recommended changes and submit a
revised preliminary plat, so marked or appeal the decision to the Board of
Adjustment.  When a subdivision is to be developed in stages, the preliminary
plat shall be submitted for each stage. The first final plat shall be submitted
within 12 months after approval of the preliminary plat, otherwise, the plat
shall become null and void. The developer may apply for an extension of time.
The Planning Board may grant this extension by majority vote of the members.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.035  FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat,
which the subdivider proposed to record and develop at that time; such portion
shall conform to all requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Plat submitted. The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked
to the Planning Department not less than 11 days prior to the Planning Board
meeting at which it will considered for approval; further, the plat shall be
submitted not more than 12 months after the date on which the preliminary plat
was approved, otherwise such approval shall be null and void unless a written
extension of this time limit is granted by the Planning Board on or before the
one year anniversary of approval.
   (B)   Plat prepared. A professional land surveyor shall prepare the final
plat. The final plat shall substantially conform to the preliminary plat as it
was approved. The final plat shall conform to the provisions of plats,
subdivision, and mapping requirements as set forth in G.S. § 47-30, as amended.
   (C)   Number of copies. Ten copies shall be submitted; one of these shall be
drawn in ink on film suitable for reproduction, nine copies shall be black or
blue line paper prints.
   (D)   Size of plat and scale. Final plats shall be prepared in accordance
with G.S. § 47-30 and suitable for recording in the Register of Deed’s Office
(see the G.S. § 47-30 checklist).
   (E)   Certification required. The following signed certificates shall appear
on all copies of the final that are submitted to the Planning Board by the
subdivider.
      CERTIFICATES OF OWNERSHIP AND DEDICATION
      I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property
shown and described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of
Warren County and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent, established minimum building setback lines, and dedicate
all streets, alleys, walks, parks and other sites and easements to public or
private use as noted.
      ______________________________
      Date/Owner(s)
      CERTIFICATION BY THE REVIEW OFFICER
      State of North Carolina
      County of Warren
      I, _____________, Review Officer of Warren County, certify that the map
or plat to which this certification is affixed meet all statutory requirements
for recording.
      _______________________________________
      Review Officer/Date
      CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY AND ACCURACY
      I ______, a professional land surveyor, certify that this plat was (1)
drawn under my supervision from an actual survey made under my supervision
(deed description recorded in Book Page ___, etc.) (Other); that the boundaries
not surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book Page
(2) that the ratio of precision as calculated is 1: _; (3) that this plat was
prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my original
signature, registration number and seal this ____ day of ________, 20 ___.
      (Seal or Stamp)
      ________________________________________
      Surveyor Registration No.
      CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL OF DESIGN AND INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES
      AND OTHER REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
      I certify that all utilities and other required improvements have been
installed in an acceptable manner and according to Warren County specifications
and standards in the _______________________Subdivision.
      __________________________________________________________________
      Date/Owner/Registered Professional Engineer
      DEDICATION OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      The______________ Subdivision will be served by the following: (Check 2
of 4); Central Water System ___; Central Sewer System ___; individual Water
Wells ___; and/or Individual Septic Tanks ______. These improvements are
proposed to be installed ______; these improvements are installed ______.
      _______________________________________
      Date/Owner/Developer
      CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL FOR RECORDING
      I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations of Warren County, with all variances
noted in the minutes of the Warren County Planning Board, and that this map has
been approved for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds.
      ______________________________________________
      Date/Warren County Planning Board Representative
   (F)   A certificate of approval issued by the district engineer of the
Division of Highways of the North Carolina Department of Transportation for any
new street designated as public on the plat or map.
   (G)   Contents required. The final plat shall depict or contain the
following information; plats not illustrating or containing the following data
shall be returned to the subdivider or his or her authorized agent for
completion and re-submission.
      (1)   Tax map number;
      (2)   Name of subdivision or subdivider and contact information (address
and phone number);
      (3)   Graphic scale;
      (4)   Plat preparation date;
      (5)   Deed reference for the tract being subdivided;
      (6)   Name(s) of adjacent subdivisions and property owners;
      (7)   Name of professional land surveyor, certified engineer or certified
architect, with address and phone number of each;
      (8)   Existing structures;
      (9)   Map minimum size: 18 inches by 24 inches;
      (10)   Zoning classification, when applicable;
      (11)   Minimum building setback lines on each lot;
      (12)   Lot lines and lot numbers;
      (13)   Township;
      (14)   Floodplain statement (zone, panel number, effective date, type of
flood hazard: 1% or .2%);
      (15)   Computer generated exempt statement;
      (16)   Label the type of plat: utility easement, recombination, cemetery;
      (17)   Accurately positioned north arrow coordinated with any bearings
shown on the plat. Indication shall be made as to whether the north index is
true, magnetic, North Carolina Grid ("NAD 83" or "NAD 27"), or is referenced to
old deed or plat bearings. If the north index is magnetic or referenced to old
deed or plat bearings, the date and the source (if known) the index was
originally determined shall be clearly indicated;
      (18)   The azimuth or course and distance of every property line surveyed
shall be shown. Distances shall be in feet;
      (19)   All plat distances shall be by horizontal or grid measurements.
All lines shown on the plat shall be correctly plotted to the scale shown.
Enlargement of portions of a plat are acceptable in the interest of clarity,
where shown as inserts. Where the North Carolina Grid System is used, the grid
factor shall be shown on the face of the plat (grid distances, if used, must be
shown on the plat);
      (20)   Where a boundary is formed by a curved line, the following data
must be given: actual survey data from the point of curvature to the point of
tangency shall be shown as standard curve data, or as a traverse of bearings
and distances around the curve. If standard curve data is used the bearing and
distance of the long chord (from point of curvature to point of tangency) must
be shown on the plat;
      (21)   All streets shall be labeled (name and number) and lots shall be
accurately plotted with dimension lines indicating widths and all other
information pertinent to reestablishing all lines in the field;
      (22)   Proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants;
      (23)   Where control corners have been established in compliance with
G.S. §§ 39-32.1 through 39-32.4, as amended, the location and pertinent
information as required in the reference statute shall be plotted on the plat.
All other corners, which are marked by monument or natural object, shall be so
identified on all plats, and where practical all corners of adjacent owners
along the boundary lines of the subject tract, which are marked by monument or
natural object, shall be shown;
      (24)   The names of adjacent landowners, lot, block, parcel, subdivision
designations;
      (25)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses/ponds, and
lakes shall be labeled as such. Utility power lines shall be labeled (power
company name). Roadways and other such improvements shall be accurately located
where crossing or forming any boundary line of the property shown;
      (26)   One or more corners shall, by a system of azimuths or courses and
distances, be accurately tied to and coordinated with a horizontal control
monument of some United States or state agency survey system, such as the North
Carolina Geodetic Survey where the monument is within 2,000 feet of the subject
property. Where the North Carolina Grid System coordinates of the monument are
on file in the North Carolina Office of State Budget and Management, the
coordinates of both the referenced corner and the monuments used shall be shown
in X (easting) and Y (northing) coordinates on the plat. The coordinates shall
be identified as based on "NAD 83", indicating North American Datum of 1983, or
as "NAD 27", indicating North American Datum of 1927 or the most recent datum.
The tie lines to the monuments shall also be sufficient to establish true north
or grid north bearings for the plat if the monuments exist in pairs. Within a
previously recorded subdivision that has been tied to grid control, control
monuments within the subdivision may be used in lieu of additional ties to grid
control. Within a previously recorded subdivision that has not been tied to
grid control, if horizontal control monuments are available within 2,000 feet,
the above requirements shall be met; but in the interest of bearing consistency
with previously recorded plats, existing bearing control should be used where
practical. In the absence of grid control, other appropriate natural monuments
or landmarks shall be used. In all cases, the tie lines shall be sufficient to
accurately reproduce the subject lands from the control or reference points
used;
      (27)   A vicinity map (location map) shall appear on the plat;
      (28)   Any lot determined to be within an area of special flood hazard
should have a statement regarding the Panel number, location of the SFHA, a
completed elevation certificate or associated documents (LOMA, LODR, LOMR,
etc.), the zone and the elevation on the plat;
      (29)   Any street proposed to intersect with a state-maintained road (SR)
shall be have an attached approved driveway permit from the North Carolina
Department of Transportation;
      (30)   The Planning Board shall require the subdivider to provide plans
for proposed public utility layouts, including sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
water distribution lines, natural gas, telephone and electric service,
illustrating connections to existing systems. Plans for water supply and/or
sewer disposal must be accompanied by letters of preliminary approval by the
appropriate county and state authorities. Plans must show line sizes, the
location of fire hydrants, blow-offs, manholes, pumps, force mains, and gate
valves, and shall include profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary
sewers and storm sewers;
      (31)   The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and on
adjoining properties;
      (32)   Proposed location and size of parks, school sites, or other
recreational or open spaces, if any, and their future ownership;
      (33)   Site calculations, including:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
         (b)   Acreage in parks and other non-residential use;
         (c)   Total number of parcels created and square footage per lot; and
         (d)   Linear feet in streets;
      (34)   Any proposed green space, walking or riding trails, natural
buffers, pedestrian, bicycle or other right-of-way utility or easements, their
location, width, and purposes;
      (35)   Proposed streets, existing and platted streets on adjoining
properties and in the propose subdivision, rights-of-way, pavement widths,
approximate grades, design engineering data for all corners and curves, and
typical street cross sections. If any street is proposed to intersect with a
state-maintained road, the plat shall be accompanied by an application for
driveway approval as required by the Department of Transportation, Division of
Highway’s Manual on Driveway Regulations;
      (36)   Existing and proposed lines, both on the tract to be subdivided
and on adjoining properties, building or other structures, water courses,
railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, both the land to be subdivided and
on the immediately adjoining corporate limits, township boundaries, county
lines;
      (37)   Any lot(s) within an area of special flood hazard shall have the
appropriate elevation certificates attached to the plat, using the newest FEMA
version of the elevation certificate;
      (38)   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds, or lakes,
streams or stream beds and any other natural features affecting the site;
      (39)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a copy of any
proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants (mandatory when private
recreation areas are established);
      (40)   Date of plat preparation;
      (41)   The name(s) of the township(s), county, and state in which the
subdivision is located;
      (42)   The name(s), addressees) and telephone number(s) of the owner(s),
registered land surveyor(s), land planner(s), architect(s), landscape architect
(s), and professional engineer(s) responsible for the subdivision;
      (43)   The name and location of any property, within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property, that is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places; likewise, property that has been designated by
local ordinance as a "Historic Property"; likewise, any property that has been
designated by local ordinance as a "Historic District";
      (44)   Approval letter from the Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources for development in which one or more total acreage of land disturbing
activities will take place;
      (45)   Topographic map showing vertical contours every ten feet.
   (H)   Planning Board review procedure. Final plats shall be reviewed
according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within 45 days of its first consideration. During its review of the final plat,
the Planning Board may appoint an engineer or surveyor to confirm the accuracy
of the final plat. If substantial errors are found, in the opinion of the
Planning Board, the costs shall not be approved until such errors have been
corrected.
      (2)   If the Planning Board approves the final plat, such approval will
authorize the subdivider to file the plat with the County Register of Deeds.
Such approval by the Planning Board shall be indicated on each copy of the
approved plat.
      (3)   If the Planning Board disapproves the final plat, the Planning
Board shall state in writing its reasons for such action, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the plat does not comply. One copy of
this statement shall be transmitted to the subdivider within 20 days of
disapproval; one copy shall be retained by the Planning Board as part of its
proceedings.
      (4)   If the final plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make such
changes as will bring the plat into compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and resubmit it for consideration by the Planning Board.
      (5)   If the Planning Board fails to approve or disapprove the final plat
within 90 days after first consideration, as previously defined, such failure
shall be deemed approval.
   (I)   Effect of plan approval on dedications. The approval of a final plat
shall not be deemed to constitute or affect the acceptance by the county of the
dedication of any street or other ground, public utility line, or other public
utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat. However, the county
may by resolution of County Commissioners accept any dedication made to the
public of lands or facilities for parks, public utility lines, or other public
purposes, when the lands or facilities are located within the subdivision
regulation jurisdiction.
   (J)   Disposition of copies. One reproducible mylar and one blue lined copy
shall be filed with the Register of Deeds, and one blue lined copy shall be
retained by Planning staff.
   (K)   Recording of the final plat. The subdivider shall file the approved
final plat with the County Register of Deeds for recording within 60 days after
the date of the Planning Board’s approval; otherwise, such approval shall be
void.
   (L)   Re-subdivision procedures. For any re-platting or re-subdivision of
land, the same procedures, rules and regulations shall apply as prescribed
herein for an original subdivision. Lot sizes may, however, be varied on an
approved plat after recording provided that:
      (1)   No lot or tract of land shall be created or sold that is smaller
than the size shown on the approved plan;
      (2)   Drainage, easements of rights-of-way shall not be changed;
      (3)   Street alignment and block sizes shall not be changed;
      (4)   The property line between the back of the lots shall not be
changed;
      (5)   The rear portion of lots shall not be subdivided from the front
part; and
      (6)   The character of the area shall be maintained.
   (M)   A plat shall be required on any subdivision of land. Pursuant to G.S.
§ 153A-332, the Planning Board shall require the subdivider that a plat be
prepared approved, and recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
whenever any subdivision of land takes place.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES
§ 158.050  IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES REQUIRED.
   In lieu of requiring the completion, installation and dedication of all
improvements prior to final plat approval, the county may enter into an
agreement with the subdivider whereby the subdivider shall agree to complete
all required improvements. Once all parties sign the said articles of agreement
and the security required herein is provided, the final plat may be approved by
the Planning Board, if all other requirements of this chapter are met. To
secure this agreement, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the approval of
the County Attorney and Finance Director, either one, or a combination of the
following performance guarantees not exceeding 1.25 times the reasonably
estimated cost of completion at the time the performance guarantee is issued as
provided herein:
   (A)   Surety performance bond(s). The subdivider shall obtain a performance
bond(s) issued by any company authorized to do business in North Carolina. The
bonds shall be payable to the county and shall be in an amount equal to 1.25
times the entire costs, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the
Planning Board, of installing all required improvements. The duration of the
bond(s) shall be until such time as the improvements are completed or one year.
   (B)   Cash, letter of credit, or equivalent security. The subdivider shall
deposit cash, an irrevocable letter of credit issued by any financial
institution licensed to do business in North Carolina, or other instrument
readily convertible into cash at face value either with the county or in escrow
with a financial institution designated as an official depository of the
county. The use of any instrument other than cash or letter of credit shall be
subject to the approval of the County Attorney and Finance Officer. The amount
of deposit shall be equal 1.25 times the reasonably estimated costs, as
estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Planning Board, of installing
all required improvements. If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow
with a financial institution as provided above, then the subdivider shall file
with the Finance Officer, an agreement between the financial institution and
himself guaranteeing the following:
      (1)   That said escrow account shall be held in trust until released by
the county and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider in any other matter
during the term of the escrow; and
      (2)   That in case of a failure on the part of the developer to complete
said improvements, the financial institution shall upon notification by the
Planning Board or designee, and submission by the Planning Board to the
financial institution of an engineer’s estimate of the amount needed to
complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the county the funds
estimated to complete the improvement, up to the full balance of the escrow
account, or deliver to the county any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable to in full to the county.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.051  DEFAULT.
   Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider to complete the
required improvements in a timely manner as spelled out in the performance bond
or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the financial institution holding the
escrow account shall, if requested by the Planning Board, pay all or any
portion of the bond or escrow fund to the county up to the amount needed to
complete the improvements based on engineering estimates or invoices. Upon
payment, the Planning Board, in its discretion, may expend such portion of said
funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required
improvements. The county shall return to the subdivider any funds not spent in
completing the improvements.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.052  RELEASE OF GUARANTEE SECURITY.
   The performance guarantee shall be returned or released, as appropriate, in
a timely manner upon the acknowledgement by the county that the improvements
for which the performance guarantee is being required are complete and field
verified by staff of the Planning and Code Enforcement Department. The county
shall return letters of credit or escrowed funds upon completion of the
required improvements to its specifications or upon acceptance of the required
improvements, if the required improvements are subject to the county’s
acceptance. When required improvements that are secured by a bond are completed
to the specifications of the county, or are accepted by the county, if subject
to its acceptance, upon request by the developer, the county shall timely
provide written acknowledgement that the required improvements have been
completed.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.053  MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT AND EXTENSION.
   The developer shall present written evidence satisfactory to the Planning
Board that the developer guarantees all improvements for a period of one year
from the date of completion of construction and/or installation. The subdivider
shall notify the buyer of the nature, extent, and location of these
improvements and shall include such notice as a part of the written sales
transaction. A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good faith progress
toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension. If the improvements are not completed
to the specifications of the county, and the current performance guarantee is
likely to expire prior to completion of the required improvements, the
performance guarantee shall be extended, or a new performance guarantee issued,
for an additional period. An extension under this subdivision shall only be for
a duration necessary to complete the required improvements. If a new
performance guarantee is issued, the amount shall be determined by the
procedure provided in §
158.054 and shall include the total cost of all incomplete improvements.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.054  AMOUNT.
   The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed 125% of the
reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the performance guarantee
is issued. The county may determine the amount of the performance guarantee or
use a cost estimate determined by the developer. The reasonably estimated cost
of completion shall include 100% of the costs for labor and materials necessary
for completion of the required improvements. Where applicable, the costs shall
be based on unit pricing. The additional 25% allowed under this subdivision
includes inflation and all costs of administration regardless of how such fees
or charges are denominated. The amount of any extension of any performance
guarantee shall be determined according to the procedures for determining the
initial guarantee and shall not exceed 125% of the reasonably estimated cost of
completion of the remaining incomplete improvements still outstanding at the
time the extension is obtained. The county, at its discretion, may require the
performance guarantee to be posted either at the time the plat is recorded or
at a time subsequent to plat recordation.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.055  DURATION AND COVERAGE.
   The duration of the performance guarantee shall initially be one year,
unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the required
improvements necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a bonded
obligation, the completion date shall be set one year from the date the bond is
issued, unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the required
improvements necessitates a longer duration. The performance guarantee shall
only be used for completion of the required improvements and not for repairs or
maintenance after completion.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.056  LEGAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND EXCLUSION.
   No person shall have or may claim any rights under or to any performance
guarantee provided pursuant to this subsection or in the proceeds of any such
performance guarantee other than the county, the developer at whose request or
for whose benefit the performance guarantee is given, the person or entity
issuing or providing the performance guarantee at the request of or for the
benefit of the developer. Performance guarantees associated with erosion
control and stormwater control measures are not subject to the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS
OF DESIGN
§ 158.065  GENERAL.
   Each subdivision of land shall meet the minimum standards of design and
contain the improvements required by this subchapter. Land may be dedicated and
reserved in each subdivision and the required improvements shall be paid by the
subdivider or developer.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.066  SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   Land which has been determined by the Planning Board on the basis of
engineering or other expert surveys, to pose as ascertainable danger to life or
property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed, shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct said conditions and to eliminate said danger.
   (A)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the County Health Department, a structural engineer,
and a soil expert, determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
   (B)   (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and all lots platted for residential use shall depict
areas subject to the 100-year flood.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities, such as gas, electrical, water and
sewer systems in all subdivision proposals, shall be located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.067  NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within the county.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.068  SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   The lengths, widths, and shapes or blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements; needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; limitations
and opportunities of topography; and convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth except where single tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
in non- residential subdivisions, or where abutting a water area.
      (3)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian
crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient
public access to a public area such as a park or school, to a water area, or to
areas such as shopping center, religious or transportation facilities.
      (4)   Block numbers shall conform to the county street numbering system,
if applicable.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of the zoning ordinance. It
is not sufficient merely for the average lot to meet zoning requirements.
      (2)   Only one primary dwelling per lot and only one accessory dwelling
per lot where applicable and in compliance the County’s Zoning Ordinance for
the respective zoning district.  The accessory dwelling shall be no larger than
25% or 50% of the size of the primary dwelling:
         (a)   The 25% rule applies to an efficiency apartment within the
primary dwelling.
         (b)   The 50% rule is for an accessory dwelling either attached or
detached from the main house (guest houses).
      (3)   RVs, campers and work trailers are not permitted on site for living
in while homes are being built and shall not be permitted for use as a dwelling
unit as defined in this chapter and the County Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   All lots shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Lots with on-site wells and septic tanks shall have a minimum of
30,000 square feet net of land and be at least 100 feet wide and 200 feet deep
at the minimum setback line;
         (b)   Lots with community water and on-site septic tanks shall have a
minimum of 20,000 square feet net of land and be at least 100 feet wide and 200
feet deep at the minimum setback line;
         (c)   Lots served by septic tanks and located on a watershed of a
Class I or Class II reservoir shall have a minimum of 30,000 square feet net of
land and be at least 100 feet wide at the minimum setback line;
      (5)   Every lot shall front abut on a dedicated, public street, a private
easement, or a private street dedicated to a homeowner’s association.
      (6)   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra width of ten
feet to permit adequate building setback from side streets.
      (7)   Double frontage lots should be avoided.
      (8)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
      (9)   A licensed soil scientist in the State of North Carolina shall map
any subdivision that depicts ten lots or more.
      (10)   In non-zoned areas, the minimum setback for all buildings and
appurtenances from the property lines shall be as follows:
         (a)   From the front property line: 30 feet;
         (b)   From the side property line: ten feet;
         (c)   From the rear property line: 25 feet (off shore/non-lake front
lots, only);
         (d)   From the side property line on corner lots: 30 feet;
         (e)   From the front property line on major thoroughfares: 40 feet.
      (11)   Show portion(s) of lot subject to the 1% annual chance flood or
100-year floodplain, an appropriate statement indicating such location shall
appear on the final plat. All lots in any subdivision in the county are
eligible for flood insurance because the county participates in the NFIP.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility and drainage easements shall be provided for utilities
where necessary and shall be a minimum 30 feet wide, except where utility
easements abut the street right-of-way, the easements shall be a minimum ten
feet. Easements should be centered on rear or side lot lines to the maximum
practical extent.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage-way,
drainage tile, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement
or drainage easement conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse,
and such further width or construction, or body, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
      (3)   Lake ponds, creeks, and similar areas may be accepted by the county
for maintenance only if sufficient land is dedicated as a public recreation
area or park or if such area constitutes a necessary part of the drainage
control system of such dedicated areas must be approved by Warren County
Environmental Health prior to the acceptance by the Planning Board.
      (4)   All telephone lines and power lines are recommended to be located
at the rear of off shore lots and along the side for water front lots. The
telephone company and the power company shall be provided with copies of the
plat by the subdivider and be expected to work with the developer in designing
the utility plan for the subdivision.
      (5)   Private roads or easements shall be a minimum of 50 feet in width,
and shall be recorded with the lots.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.069  STREETS.
   All public streets shall be built to the standards of this chapter and all
other applicable standards of the county and the North Carolina Department of
Transportation. Public streets which are eligible for acceptance into the state
highway system shall be constructed to the standards necessary to be put on the
state highway system or the standards in this chapter, whichever is stricter in
regard to each particular item, and shall be put on such systems. Streets which
are not eligible to be put on the state highway system because there are too
few lots or residences, shall nevertheless, be dedicated to the public and
shall be in accordance with the standards necessary to be put on the state
highway system, whichever is stricter in regard to each particular item, so as
to be eligible to be put on the system at a later date. A written maintenance
agreement with provisions for maintenance of the street until it is put on the
state system shall be included with the final plat.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.070  PUBLIC OR PRIVATE STREET DESIGNATION.
   All streets shown on the final plat must be designated either "public" or
"private" and designation as public is to be conclusively presumed an offer of
dedication to the public.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Compliance of subdivision streets with minimum standards of the Board of
Transportation, see G.S. § 136-102.6
§ 158.071  HALF-STREETS.
   The dedication of half-streets shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.072  MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.
   Where a tract of land to be subdivided adjoins a principal arterial parallel
to the arterial street or reverse frontage on a minor street for the lots to be
developed adjacent to the arterial. Where reverse frontage is established,
private driveways shall be prevented from having direct access to the principal
arterial.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.073  ACCESS TO ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Board, it is necessary to provide for
street access to an adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended by
dedication to the boundary of such property and a temporary turnaround
provided.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.074  NON-RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   The subdivider of a non-residential subdivision shall provide streets in
accordance with F-4 of North Carolina Roads, Minimum Construction Standards,
May 1983, or current standards, and the standards in this chapter whichever are
stricter in regard to each particular item.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.075  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design of all public streets and roads within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies of the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, Division of Highway, as taken or modified from
the American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO) manuals. The North
Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways’ Subdivision Road
Minimum Construction Standards, July 1, 1985, or current standards, shall apply
for any items not included in this chapter, or where stricter than this
chapter.
   (A)   For all public streets, the minimum right-of-way widths shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Right-of-way widths. Right-of-way widths shall not be less than the
following and shall apply except in those cases where right-of-way requirements
have been specifically set out in the thoroughfare plan:
Rural                                Minimum Rural Right-of-Way (feet)
Principal arterial                   350
  Freeways                          200
  Other
Minor arterial                       100
Major collector                      100
Minor collector                      50
Local road                           45
Urban                                Minimum Rural Right-of-Way (feet)
Major thoroughfare                   90
  Other than freeway and expressway
Minor thoroughfare                   70
Local street                         45
Cul-de-sac                           45
 
      (2)   The subdivider will only be required to dedicate a maximum of 100
feet right-of way. In cases where over 100 feet of right-of-way is desired, the
subdivider will be required only to reserve the amount in excess of 100 feet in
width. In all cases in which right-of-way is sought for an access-controlled
facility, the subdivider will only be required to make a reservation.
      (3)   Intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles and no street at an angle less than 60 degrees.
         (b)   Property lines at intersections should be so that the distance
from the edge of pavement, of the street turnout, to the property line will be
at least as great as the distance from the edge of the pavement to the property
line along the intersection streets. This property line can be established as a
radius or as a sight triangle. Greater offsets from the edge of pavement to the
property lines will be required if necessary, for the vehicle on the side
street.
         (c)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless the Division of
Highways grants exception. An intersection which cannot be aligned should be
separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey center lines.
         (d)   Intersections with arterials, collectors, and thoroughfares,
shall be at least 1,000 feet from centerline to centerline, or more if required
by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs. All cul-de-sacs shall be a minimum diameter of 100
feet with a minimum of 50 feet. Cul-de-sacs should not exceed 2,000 feet in
length unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility. Measurement
shall be from the point where the centerline of the dead-end street intersects
with the center of a through street to the center of the turn-around if the
cul-de-sac. The distance from the edge of the pavement on the vehicular turn-
around to the right-of-way line shall not be less than the distance from the
end of the pavement to the right-of-way line on the street approaching the
turn-around. Cul-de-sacs should not be used to avoid congestion with an
existing street or to avoid the extension of an important street, unless the
Planning Board grants exception.
      (5)   Alleys.
         (a)   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes except that this requirement may be waived, where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access. Alleys shall not be
provided in residential subdivisions unless necessitated by unusual
geographical land circumstances.
         (b)   The drivable surface area of an alley shall be at least 20 feet
wide.
         (c)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead
end as may be approved by the Planning Board.
         (d)   Sharp changes in alignment and grade shall be avoided.
         (e)   All alleys shall be designed in accordance with NCDOT standards.
   (B)   Type I, Type II, and Type III roads. Standards for development of Type
I, II, and III private road or easement, accessing newly created lots shall
meet North Carolina Department of Transportation Minimum Construction Standards
for maintained roads. Lots created by exceptions will be included when
determining the standard of road construction needed for further subdivision of
the acreage into new lots.
      (1)   Type I private road or easement serving no more than three lots,
whether existing lots or new lots, or combination of the same, shall meet the
following standards:
         (a)   Must comply with minimum North Carolina Department of
Transportation Minimum Construction Standards for right-of-way standards for
width and centerline radius.
         (b)   Shall be recorded with the lots and dedicated for use by lot
owners.
      (2)   Type II private road serving more than three and less than ten lots
shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Shall be constructed to meet all the North Carolina Department
of Transportation Minimum Construction Standards for subdivision road,
including a minimum of four inches of compacted stone; however, said roads do
not have to be paved, and have a minimum of 25 feet of drivable surface area.
         (b)   Shall be dedicated to a homeowner’s association prior to
approval of the final plat:
            1.   The homeowners’ association shall be established before the
lots are sold;
            2.   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for each lot
buyer and all successive buyers;
            3.   The association shall be responsible for the maintenance of
the upkeep of the private street or road.
      (3)   Type III private road serving ten or more lots and meeting the
following standard:
         (a)   Shall be constructed and paved to North Carolina Department of
Transportation minimum standards for subdivision roads.
   (C)   Other standards.
      (1)   Preliminary plat approval. All subdivisions with private roads
that, as of the effective date of this chapter having Planning Board approval
on the preliminary plat shall be built as approved, however, any additions to
that subdivision shall follow these regulations.
      (2)   Change in type, private road or private easement. All roads as
defined in §
158.069 shall meet the standard of construction, based on the number of lots,
prior to further subdivision of property.
      (3)   Street names. Proposed streets, which are, obviously in alignment
with existing street shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the county,
irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive place, court,
etc. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Board.
      (4)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide and
erect street name signs to county standards at all intersections with the
subdivision prior to recordation of final plat.
      (5)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. The application is
available at the office of the District Engineer of the Division of Highways,
Henderson, North Carolina.
      (6)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. § 136-44.14, all street
curbs in North Carolina being constructed or reconstructed for maintenance
procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of utilities, or altered
for any reason after September 1, 1973, shall provide wheelchair ramps for the
physically handicapped at intersections where both curb and gutter and
sidewalks are provided and at other major points of pedestrian flow.
      (7)   Technical Review Committee (TRC). The Technical Review Committee
shall be composed of representatives from the following departments:
         (a)   Planning Director/Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Environmental Health Specialist;
         (c)   Public Works Director.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.076  OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Through traffic discouraged on residential collection and local
streets. Residential collector and local streets shall be laid out in such a
way that their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Streets shall be
designed or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools, or other places of public assembly.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Planning Board on one or
both sides of the street in areas likely to be subject to heavy pedestrian
traffic such as near schools, and shopping areas. Such sidewalks shall be
constructed to a minimum of four feet, and shall consist of a minimum thickness
of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks shall be placed in the right-of-way,
unless the development is platted as a planned unit or group development.
Sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of six inches of concrete at driveway
crossings.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.077  UTILITIES; WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES.
   Installation and provision for water supply and sewage disposal shall be
according to the standards of the Public Works Department and the Health
Department.
   (A)   Water supply system.
      (1)   Connection requirement. Any subdivision which is created after the
adoption of this section and is located within that number of feet of an
existing county owned or operated water supply and distribution system as is
specified in division (B) below, whether the subdivision is located within or
without the service area of an existing county owned or operated public water
supply and distribution system, the developer or subdivider shall cause a water
distribution system, meeting the standards herein specified, to be constructed
and installed in such subdivision and shall further cause said water
distribution system to be connected to the existing county owned or operated
public water supply and distribution system which is located as specified in
said division (B).  This requirement also applies to new phases of existing
subdivisions when these phases have not had prior approval by the Planning
Board.
         (a)   Each lot in a subdivision located within 500 feet of a public
water supply system shall be connected, at the developer’s or subdivider’s
expense, to that water supply system.
         (b)   Consideration shall be given to the acreage of an entire tract
and the number of potential lots therein, taking into account topography of the
tract, feasibility of the land for further subdivision development, and other
factors.
         (c)   Where, in the opinion of the Public Works Department, a
subdivision cannot be economically connected to a county owned or operated
water supply and distribution system, the subdivision must contain adequate
area (based on information concerning the soil survey, water table, type of
sewage disposal, etc.) for the installation of private water supply systems,
and must be approved in writing by the County Health Department. In addition,
where, in the opinion of the Public Works Department, a subdivision cannot be
economically connected to a county owned or operated water supply and
distribution system, the developer or subdivider may establish and create a
public water supply and distribution system or connect the subdivision to an
existing public water supply system.
         (d)   However, such created public water supply system or such water
distribution system to be connected to an existing system shall be approved by
and meet the requirements of all federal, state, and local governments,
including but not limited to the Division of Environmental Health, Department
of Health and Human Services of the State of North Carolina and the North
Carolina Utilities Commission.
      (2)   Distance specification. A subdivision shall be required to meet the
conditions of this section when the subdivision is located within that number
of feet of an existing county owned or operated water supply and distribution
system which equals the product of the number of lots within the subdivision
(including lots to be developed in the future) multiplied by 100, provided
however, that the maximum distance required for connection shall be 5,000 feet.
      (3)   Subject to capacity sufficiency. In the event that a subdivision
should meet the distance requirement of division (2) above and the county owned
or operated water supply and distribution system to which the subdivision would
connect shall be of insufficient capacity to permit the delivery of water to
said subdivision, the subject subdivision shall be relieved of the requirement
to connect to such county system.
      (4)   Review requirements. When a developer or subdivider is required to
install a water distribution system pursuant to this section, prior to final
approval of the record plat, the plans for the water distribution system to be
installed shall be submitted to the Public Works Department. The location,
size, and specifications of the water supply system shall be place upon said
plat for review and approval. Public Works Department shall review the
information supplied and determine whether the plans meet the requirements of
this section.
      (5)   Plan specification. The plans for a water distribution system to be
installed pursuant to this section shall show and/or state thereon such
information as will indicate that the system planned will meet, when
constructed and installed, the requirements of this section.
      (6)   Water distribution system specifications. A water distribution
system to be constructed within a subdivision pursuant to this section and/or
connected to the county owned or operated water supply and distribution system
shall:
         (a)   Be properly connected in such a manner as to adequately serve
all lots shown on the subdivision plat (including both present and future lots)
for domestic use and fire protection.
         (b)   Conform to the specifications of the Public Works Department and
conform to the accepted standards of good practice for water system
construction, as specified by the Division of Environmental Health, Department
of Health and Human Services.
         (c)   Be approved by the necessary federal and/or state agencies prior
to or at the time of completion.
         (d)   Conform to all federal, state, and/or local ordinances, rules
and regulations relating thereto and any license and/or permits required
thereby shall be obtained.
         (e)   Be constructed pursuant to the necessary contractual agreements
required by the policies, rules and regulations of the Public Works Department.
      (7)   Fire protection. In major subdivisions with new roads where an
adequate public water supply system is available, the developer or subdivider
shall install fire hydrants in such a manner that the subdivision is afforded
adequate fire protection. Fire hydrants shall be located in such a manner that
no lot is further than 1,000 feet from a hydrant. Water lines on which fire
hydrants are to be installed shall be no less than six inches in diameter.
There shall be no closed or dead-end lines servicing the fire hydrant locations
on the subdivisions, unless an alternate method is approved.
      (8)   Water distribution lines shall be no smaller than six inches in
diameter with the following exception: On cul-de-sacs which are served by a
fire hydrant connected to a water line of six inches in diameter, or larger,
water services may be provided with lines of smaller than six inches, but not
less than two inches, if a blow-off valve is established at the end of the
loop. This exception shall not apply where such line represents the
interconnection between the subdivision and the municipal system. On streets
which are "stubbed out" at the property lines to permit future development,
service must be provided by lines of at least six inches nominal diameter.
      (9)   Subdivisions where section not applicable. When located outside the
service area of county owned or operated water supply and distribution system
and/or outside the distance specifications, water may be supplied by a
community water system installed by the developer, provided the community water
system provides an adequate water supply for domestic use, and provided that
six- inch water lines are installed to service fire hydrants and such that no
lot is more than 1,000 feet from any hydrant location.
      (10)   Construction period. When a subdivision is to be developed in
phases, the water distribution system required hereunder may be constructed in
steps simultaneous with the development of each phase of the subdivision.
   (B)   Sewer disposal system.
      (1)   Connection requirement. Any subdivision which is created after the
adoption of this section and is located within that number of feet of an
existing county owned or operated sewage disposal system as is specified in
division (B)(2) below, whether the subdivision is located within or without the
service area of an existing county owned or operated public sewage disposal
system, the developer or subdivider shall cause a sewage disposal system,
meeting the standards herein specified, to be constructed and installed in such
subdivision and shall further cause said sewage disposal system to be connected
to the existing county owned or operated public sewage disposal system which is
located as specified in said division (B). This requirement also applies to new
phases of existing subdivisions when these phases have not been previously
approved by the Planning Board.
         (a)   Each lot in a subdivision located within 500 feet of a public
sewage disposal system shall be connected, at the developer’s or subdivider’s
expense, to that sewage disposal system.
         (b)   Consideration shall be given to the acreage of an entire tract
and the number of potential lots therein, taking into account topography,
feasibility of the land for further subdivision development, and other factors.
         (c)   Where, in the opinion of the Public Works Department, a
subdivision cannot be economically connected to a county owned or operated
sewage disposal system, the subdivision must contain adequate area (based on
information concerning the soil survey, water table, type of water source,
etc.) for the installation of private sewage disposal systems, and must be
approved in writing by the County Health Department. In addition, where, in the
opinion of the Public Works Department, a subdivision cannot be economically
connected to a county owned or operated sewage disposal system, the developer
or subdivider may establish and create a public sewage disposal system or
connect the subdivision to an existing public sewage disposal system.
         (d)   However, such created public sewage disposal system or such
sewage disposal system to be connected to an existing system shall be approved
by and meet the requirements of all federal, state, and local governments,
including but not limited to the Division of Environmental Health, Department
of Health and Human Services of the State of North Carolina and the North
Carolina Utilities Commission.
      (2)   Distance specification. A subdivision shall be required to meet the
conditions of this section when the subdivision is located within that number
of feet of an existing county owned or operated sewage disposal system which
equals the product of the number of lots within the subdivision (including lots
to be developed in the future) multiplied by 100, provided however, that the
maximum distance required for connection shall be 5,000 feet.
      (3)   Subject to capacity sufficiency. In the event that a subdivision
should meet the distance requirement of this division (B) and the county owned
or operated sewage disposal system to which the subdivision would connect shall
be of insufficient capacity to permit the collection and treatment sewage from
said subdivision, the subject subdivision shall be relieved of the requirement
connect to such county system.
      (4)   Review requirements. When a developer or subdivider is required to
install a sewage disposal system pursuant to this section, prior to final
approval of the record plat, the plans for the sewage disposal system to be
installed shall be submitted to the Public Works Department. The location,
size, and specifications of the sewage disposal system shall be place upon said
plat for review and approval. Public Works Department shall review the
information supplied and determine whether the plans meet the requirements of
this section.
      (5)   Plan specification. The plans for a sewage disposal system to be
installed pursuant to this section shall show and/or state thereon such
information as will indicate that the system planned will meet, when
constructed and installed, the requirements of this section.
      (6)   Sewage disposal system specifications. A sewage disposal system to
be constructed within a subdivision pursuant to this section and/or connected
to the county owned or operated sewage disposal system shall:
         (a)   Be properly connected in such a manner as to adequately serve
all lots shown on the subdivision plat (including both present and future
lots).
         (b)   Conform to the specifications of the Public Works Department and
conform to the accepted standards of good practice for sewage system
construction, as specified by the Division of Environmental Health, Department
of Health and Human Services.
         (c)   Be approved by the necessary federal and/or state agencies prior
to or at the time of completion.
         (d)   Conform to all federal, state, and/or local ordinances, rules
and regulations relating thereto and any license and/or permits required
thereby shall be obtained.
         (e)   Be constructed pursuant to the necessary contractual agreements
required by the policies, rules and regulations of the Public Works Department.
         (f)   Sanitary sewer collection lines shall be no smaller than six
inches in diameter.
      (7)   Subdivisions where section not applicable. When located outside the
service area of a county owned or operated sewage disposal system and/or
outside the distance specifications, adequate sewage disposal may be supplied
by a community sewage disposal system installed by the developer, provided the
community sewage disposal system provides adequate sewage disposal.
      (8)   Construction period. When a subdivision is to be developed in
phases, the sewage disposal system required hereunder may be constructed in
steps simultaneous with the development of each phase of the subdivision.
   (C)   General note. For the purpose of this section, the terms WATER SYSTEM
and SEWAGE SYSTEM shall include all appurtenances and fixtures normally
associated with such facilities, including but not limited to, fire hydrants,
gate valves, blow-offs, manholes, and pumping apparatus, etc.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.078  FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Major subdivisions with private water systems. All major subdivisions
located on Lake Gaston are required to install poly vinyl chloride (PVC) dry
hydrants. The homeowners association governing major subdivisions approved
prior to May 1988 shall also have the option to install such hydrants.
   (B)   Permits for the installation of PVC dry hydrants shall be requested by
the developer of major subdivisions (or the homeowners association for those
subdivisions approved prior to May 1988) and issued by NC Power. Procedures for
the design, installation, use and maintenance of the poly vinyl chloride (PVC)
dry hydrant shall be approved by the County’s Fire Marshal. Further, an access
easement of not less than 15 feet is reserved for access to the dry hydrant.
This agreement shall be waived upon the availability of a county water supply.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.079  UNDERGROUND WIRING.
   All subdivisions in which the smallest lot is less than 40,000 square feet
shall have underground wiring. The Planning Board may waive this requirement if
the underlying rock is less than four feet from surface, in areas where soils
have a high-water table, or if there is extensive pre-existing overhead wiring
on the street in the immediate neighborhood of the subdivision. The subdivider
shall be required to pay the charges for installation of the underground
service, which charges will be made in accordance with the then-effective
underground electric service plan as filed with the North Carolina Utilities
Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.080  BUFFERING.
   In residential subdivisions, a buffer strip at least 50 feet in depth in
addition to the normal lot size and depth required, shall be provided adjacent
to all railroads and limited access highways, commercial and/or industrial
development, and public development. This strip shall be a part of the platted
lots, but shall have the following restrictions lettered on the face of the
plat; "This strip reserved for existing vegetation or the planting of trees or
shrubs by the owners; the building of structures hereon is prohibited."
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.081  OTHER REQUIREMENTS; PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   Unless otherwise specified by this chapter, the Standards of Practice for
Land Surveying as adopted by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, under the provisions of Title 21 of
the NC Administrative Code, Chapter 56 (21 NCAC 56), shall apply when
conducting surveys for subdivision; to determine the accuracy for surveys and
placement of monuments, control corners, markers, control corner ties; to
determine the location, design, and material monuments, markers, control
corners, and property comer ties; and to determine other standards and
procedures governing the practice of land surveying for subdivisions.
   (A)   Permanent concrete monuments four inches in diameter or square, three
feet long, corners of the subdivision, provided that additional monuments shall
be placed where necessary so that no point within the subdivision lies no more
than 500 feet from a monument. Two or more of the required monuments shall be
designated as control corners. The top of each monument shall have an indented
cross, metal pin, or metal plat to identify properly the location of the point.
All monuments shall be shown on the final plat.
   (B)   All lot corners, all points where the street lines intersect and
exterior boundaries of the subdivision, and all angle points of curve in each
street, shall be marked with iron pipe or iron stakes at least three-eighths
inches in diameter and 24 inches long.
   (C)   At least one corner of the property surveyed shall be designated by
course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference marker. If a
corner is within 2,000 feet of a U.S. Coast and Geodetic Station of North
Carolina Grid System coordinated monument, then this corner shall be marked
with a monument so designated and shall be accurately tied to the station or
monument by computed X and Y coordinates which appear on the map with a
statement identifying the station or monument and to an accuracy of at least 1:
10,000.  When such a monument or station is not available, the tie shall be
made to some pertinent and readily recognizable landmark or identifiable point,
physical object, or structure.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.082  CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved, and the
appropriate authorities have approved all plans and specifications. Further the
developer shall provide a starting date and a projected completion date for all
subdivision improvements pursuant to criteria and standards set forth in the
articles of agreement attached to the Subdivision Ordinance passed June 7,
2021.
   (B)   No building, zoning, or other permits shall be issued for erection of
a structure on any lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter until
the final plat has been approved and recorded. The subdivider, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
administrator of this chapter to provide for adequate inspection. The approving
authorities having jurisdiction or their representatives shall inspect and
approve all completed work prior to release of sureties.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 158.090  PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   Where topography or other existing physical conditions are such that
compliance with the requirements of this chapter would cause an unusual and
unnecessary hardship on the subdivider above and beyond what other subdividers
would meet, the Planning Board may vary the minimum requirements set forth
herein, provided that such variation will not have the effect of nullifying the
interest and purpose of these regulations. Where a variation is accepted the
reasons for such shall be noted in the minutes of the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.091  EXCEPTIONS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide desirable open space in
commonly owned areas, tree cover recreation area, scenic vistas, and variety in
development by allowing certain variations in lot size and design requirements,
and the establishment of townhouses and condominiums. In no case shall the
overall density of dwelling units be greater than that permitted by the
applicable zoning requirements. Subject to the approval of the Board of
Adjustment, the design standards as set forth in this chapter may be modified
by the Planning Commission in the case of a plan and program for a planned
development which may consist of offices, institutions, store, industries,
townhouses and residences or any desirable combination of these establishments
which meet the requirements of the Planned Development Provisions of the County
Zoning Ordinance. Proposed ownership of planned developments may be by one
individual, partnership, corporation, cooperative, condominium or any desirable
combination. A preliminary and final plat of a planned development shall be
submitted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter in conformity with the
following:
   (A)   Common areas. All planned unit developments shall contain commonly
owned land equal in area to 20% of the entire development. Common areas shall
not be less than two acres in size and shall be held in non-profit corporate
ownership by the owners of lots within the development. In consideration of the
purpose by a planned development, the title to such common areas or property
shall be preserved to the perpetual benefit of the private properties in
development shall be restricted against private ownership for any other
purpose. If the corporation desires, improvements may be made within the common
areas provided that maximum coverage of such improvement shall not exceed 25%
of the entire common property. The developer shall submit and, after approval
by the Planning Board record a declaration of the covenants and restrictions
that will govern the ownership, management and maintenance of the common areas.
   (B)   Density. Individual lot size may be varied, but the overall density of
a planned development shall not exceed that permitted original site development
plan as approved by the Planning Board. All remaining land not shown, as lots
shall be designated as common areas.
   (C)   North Carolina Unit Ownership Act. Before a declaration established a
condominium or the declaration and plan shall be approved by the Planning Board
as a preliminary and final plat.
   (D)   Site plan. Site plans for all planned development shall show the
location of the buildings, streets, alleys, walks, parking areas, recreation
areas, tree covers and planting. The site plan shall number and show streets
utility easements to be dedicated streets and utility easements to be dedicated
to the public. All areas on the site plan other than public streets, easements
or private building sites shall be shown and designated as common areas.
   (E)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan for all planned development shall
show all existing and proposed plant material. The plan shall indicate the size
and type of existing plant material and the size and type or plants to be
planted.
   (F)   Public access, easements, and private party walls. Building lots may
abut or be provided with frontage on common areas, properly restricted through
a property owners association to assure adequate access, if in the opinion of
the county a public street is within an acceptable distance and would allow
adequate community services. Easements over the common areas for access,
ingress, and egress from and to public streets and walkways and easements for
enjoyment of the common areas, as well as for parking, shall be granted to each
owner of a residential site. All common walls between individual residences
shall be party walls and provisions for the maintenance thereof and restoration
in the event of destruction or damage shall be established.
   (G)   Utilities and improvements required. All planned developments shall
include public water and sewer utilities, sidewalks, paved streets and parking
area with curb and gutter, underground electric and telephone phone service,
landscaping and any other improvements considered necessary by the Planning
Board.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.100  PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no major subdivision plat of land
within the county’s jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it has been
submitted to and approved by the Planning Board and until this approval is
entered in writing on the face of the plat by the Chair or Vice Chair of the
Planning Board. The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a
subdivision of land or any exempt plat for land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of the county that has not been approved in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, nor shall the Clerk of Superior Court order or
direct the recording of a plat if the recording would be in conflict with this
section.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.101  STATEMENT BY OWNER.
   The owners of land shown on a subdivision plat submitted for recording or
his authorized agent shall sign a statement on the plat stating that all land
shown thereon is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.102  EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. Ch. 153A, the approval of a plat does not constitute or
effect the acceptance by the county or the public of dedication of any street
or other ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat
and shall not be construed to do so.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.103  VARIANCE.
   The Planning Board may authorize a variance from these regulations for major
and minor plats when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. Application forms may be obtained from the Planning Department. In
granting any variance, the Board shall make the findings required below, taking
into account the nature of the proposed subdivision, the existing use of land
in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. The applicant can appeal the decision of the
Planning Board to the Board of Commissioners in an un-zoned area. No variance
shall be granted unless the Board finds all the following:
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
   (B)   That the variance is necessary for the property owner to assume
reasonable use of the land;
   (C)   That the circumstances giving the rise to the need for the variance
are peculiar to the parcel and are not generally characteristic of other
parcels in the jurisdiction of this chapter;
   (D)   Special consideration may be granted by the Planning Board in
situations involving a voluntary or court-ordered partition of land made for
the purpose of dividing the estate of a decedent among his or her heirs,
whether the decedent died testate or intestate.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.104  AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may periodically amend the terms of this chapter,
but no amendment shall become effective unless it has been proposed by or has
been submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation. The
Planning Board shall have 45 days from the time the proposed amendment is
submitted to it within which to submit its report. If the Planning Board fails
to submit a report within the specified time, the amendment shall be deemed
approved. The governing body shall adopt no amendment until they have held a
public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once a week for two
successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing. The initial notice shall be
published the first time not less than ten days or more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is
not to be included, but the day of the hearing shall be included.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.105  ABROGATION.
   This chapter does not apply to any current municipal zoning requirements. It
is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere
with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, agreements, rules,
regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law. However,
where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.106  ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   The county shall follow the standardized process for housing code
enforcement to determine an owner’s abandonment of intent to repair and need
for demolition as stated in G.S. § 160D-1203(6).
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 158.999  PENALTY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, any persons who, being the owner
or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial jurisdiction
of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his land in violation of this chapter or
transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of
plat showing subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly approved
under the terms of this chapter and recorded in the office of County Register
of Deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The descriptions by metes and
bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of
selling or transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from this
penalty. The county, through its Attorney or other official designated by the
County Commissioners, may enjoin illegal subdivisions, transfer or sale of land
by action for injunction. Further, violators of this chapter shall be subject
upon conviction, to fine and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section               Code Section
1-597                      51.03
1A-1, Rule 5               153.22
Ch. 7A                     150.31
                           30.99,
                           90.999,
                           91.99,
14-4                       151.999,
                           152.99,
                           156.99 ,
                           158.999
14-4(a)                    10.99
14-360 to 14-363           90.002
18B-1001                   30.01
18B-1004(c)                30.01
Ch. 19A, Art. 3            90.007
19A-45 to 19A-49           90.035
20-4.01                    50.02
                           158.018,
39-32.1 through 39-32.4    158.032 –
                           158.035
47-30                      158.032,
                           158.035
Ch. 47F                    157.061
67.1                       90.067
67-4.1 to 67-4.5           90.002
74-46 to 74-68             50.02
Ch. 87, Art. 7             52.01,
                           52.99
Ch. 106, Art. 57           153.22
Ch. 106, Art. 72           155.13
                           155.05,
                           155.07,
106-581.1                  155.09,
                           155.17,
                           157.010
106-735 to 106-744         155.02
106-737                    155.10
106-738                    155.07
106-740                    155.14
106-743                    155.07
106-743.1                  155.07
106-743.2                  157.010
106-743.3                  155.10
106-743.4                  157.010
106-744(e)                 155.07
106-758                    155.05
106-850(b)                 155.13
121-35                     155.08,
                           155.09
121-41(b)                  155.11
121-41(c)                  155.10,
                           155.15
Ch. 130A                   111.19
                           50.02,
Ch. 130A, Art. 9           91.03,
                           150.05
Ch. 130A-184 to 130A-201   90.002
130A-290(a)(6)             150.05
130A-290(a)(35)            150.05
130A-290(a)(36)            150.05
130A-309.09                50.01
130A-309.09A               50.01
130A-309.09B               50.01,
                           50.62
130A-309.09D               50.01
130A-335                   152.38
Ch. 131E-157, Art. 7       111.19
Ch. 131E-158, Art. 7       111.18
136-44.14                  158.075
136-102.6                  158.006,
                           158.070
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6   150.01
Ch. 143, Art. 21A          50.02
Ch. 143, Art. 56           111.18,
                           111.19
143-45(7)                  152.06
143-143.15                 150.44
143-145(7)                 153.05
143-215.1                  50.02
143B-165                   111.02
Ch. 153A                   155.02,
                           158.102
Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Part 121 150.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 18          156.04
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 2  156.03
153A-11                    30.16
153A-12                    30.16
153A-26                    157.145
153A-45                    152.03
153A-47                    152.38,
                           157.059
153A-48                    152.03
153A-49                    10.19,
                           10.20
                           50.01,
                           90.002,
153A-121                   92.01,
                           92.04,
                           152.03,
                           153.04
153A-121(a)                153.25
                           30.01,
153A-122                   91.27,
                           110.06,
                           152.03
                           50.99,
                           90.002,
                           90.999,
                           91.08,
153A-123                   92.01,
                           92.04,
                           153.04,
                           153.49,
                           157.999
153A-123(d)                90.008,
                           91.99
153A-123(e)                90.008,
                           91.99
153A-127                   90.002
153A-131                   90.002
153A-132.1                 50.01
153A-135                   110.01,
                           110.02
153A-136                   50.01
                           92.01,
                           92.04,
153A-140                   153.04,
                           153.22,
                           153.42
153A-145.7                 30.01
153A-201                   155.12
153A-239.1                 151.002
153A-274 to 153A-278       50.01
153A-291 to 153A-293       50.01
153A-292                   50.63
153A-292(b)                50.63
160A-175(c)                91.31
160A-334                   152.03
                           150.01,
                           151.136,
Ch. 160D                   153.04,
                           153.48,
                           157.001
Ch. 160D, Art. 8           158.003,
                           158.004
Ch. 160D, Art. 9           154.004
160D-105                   154.004
160D-109                   158.003
160D-303                   154.001,
                           154.004
160D-404(c)                154.004
160D-405                   157.130,
                           157.133
160D-405(e)                157.130
160D-406                   154.004
160D-802                   158.018
160D-803                   158.030,
                           158.031
160D-910                   153.50,
                           158.017
160D-940                   154.001
160D-941                   154.001,
                           154.004
160D-942                   154.004
160D-943                   154.004
160D-944                   154.001,
                           154.003
160D-945                   154.003
160D-947                   154.004
160D-948                   154.004
160D-949                   154.004
160D-951                   154.004
160D-1123                  157.133
160D-1203(6)               158.106
160D-1206                  157.133
160D-1402                  154.004
160D-1405                  154.004
166A-19.31                 30.30
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      2-2-2009    91.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         90.009
–      - -         91.13
–      - -         111.01 –
                     111.25
                     30.30 –
–      7-7-1981    30.41,
                     30.99
                     52.01 –
                     52.09,
                     52.20-
                     52.29,
–      7-23-1984   52.40-
                     52.43,
                     52.55-
                     52.66,
                     52.99
–      12-4-1989   31.40,
                     31.41
–      10-7-1991   31.20 –
                     31.27
                     91.60 –
–      6-6-1994    91.64,
                     91.99
–      3-15-1995   31.01 –
                     31.05
                     152.01 –
                     152.06,
                     152.20-
                     152.22,
–      5-17-1995   152.35-
                     152.40,
                     152.55-
                     152.57,
                     152.99
–      11-6-1995   30.02
                     151.001 –
                     151.006,
                     151.020-
                     151.026,
                     151.040-
                     151.044,
                     151.055-
                     151.062,
                     151.075-
–      11-6-2000   151.079,
                     151.090-
                     151.101,
                     151.115-
                     151.119,
                     151.130-
                     151.136,
                     151.999,
                     Ch. 151 App. A,
                     Ch. 151 App. B
–      5-6-2002    112.01 –
                     112.13
                     151.001 –
                     151.006,
                     151.020-
                     151.026,
                     151.040-
                     151.044,
                     151.055-
                     151.062,
                     151.075-
–      1-5-2004    151.079,
                     151.090-
                     151.101,
                     151.115-
                     151.119,
                     151.130-
                     151.136,
                     151.999,
                     Ch. 151 App. A,
                     Ch. 151 App. B
                     110.01 –
–      2-2-2004    110.06,
                     110.99
                     51.01 –
–      - -2007     51.12,
                     51.99,
                     Ch. 51 Appendix
                     150.01 –
                     150.12,
                     150.25 –
                     150.31,
–      4-2-2007    150.40 –
                     150.49,
                     150.61 –
                     150.66,
                     150.99
                     155.01 –
                     155.03,
–      4-2-2007    155.05 –
                     155.12,
                     155.14 –
                     155.16
                     91.45 –
–      4-7-2008    91.47,
                     91.99
                     92.01 –
–      1-5-2009    92.11,
                     92.99
–      2-2-2009    91.25 –
                     91.32
                     155.01 –
                     155.03,
–      4-6-2009    155.05 –
                     155.12,
                     155.14 –
                     155.16
                     154.001,
                     154.002,
                     154.015-
                     154.029,
–      6-22-2009   154.040-
                     154.043,
                     154.055-
                     154.064,
                     154.075-
                     154.086
                     153.01 –
                     153.06,
                     153.20-
–      9-14-2009   153.28,
                     153.40-
                     153.49,
                     153.99
                     91.01 –
–      1-3-2011    91.12,
                     91.99
–      6-1-2015    30.15 –
                     30.18
                     156.01 –
                     156.05,
                     156.20-
–      5-2-2016    156.25,
                     156.40-
                     156.43,
                     156.99
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
                     50.15-
                     50.27,
–      12-5-2016   50.40-
                     50.49,
                     50.60-
                     50.64,
                     50.99
–      8-7-2017    30.01
                     157.001 –
                     157.010,
                     157.025-
                     157.033,
                     157.045 –
                     157.049,
                     157.050 –
                     157.073,
                     157.085,
–      5-7-2018    157.086,
                     157.100,
                     157.101,
                     157.115-
                     157.117,
                     157.130-
                     157.134,
                     157.145-
                     157.149,
                     157.999
                     90.001 –
                     90.009,
                     90.020-
                     90.024,
                     90.035-
–      6-2-2018    90.037,
                     90.050-
                     90.053,
                     90.065-
                     90.072,
                     90.999
                     151.001 –
                     151.006,
                     151.020-
                     151.026,
                     151.040-
                     151.044,
                     151.055-
                     151.062,
                     151.075-
–      3-11-2019   151.079,
                     151.090-
                     151.101,
                     151.115-
                     151.119,
                     151.130-
                     151.136,
                     151.999,
                     Ch. 151 App. A,
                     Ch. 151 App. B
                     150.01 –
                     150.12,
                     150.25 –
                     150.31,
–      6-7-2021    150.40 –
                     150.49,
                     150.60 –
                     150.66,
                     150.99
                     151.001 –
                     151.006,
                     151.020 –
                     151.026,
                     151.040 –
                     151.044,
                     151.055 –
                     151.062,
–      6-7-2021    151.075 –
                     151.079,
                     151.090 –
                     151.101,
                     151.115 –
                     151.119,
                     151.130 –
                     151.136,
                     151.999,
                     Ch. 151 App. A
                     153.01 –
                     153.06,
                     153.20 –
–      6-7-2021    153.28,
                     153.40 –
                     153.50,
                     153.99
–      6-7-2021    154.001 –
                     154.007
–      6-7-2021    155.01 –
                     155.17
                     157.001 –
                     157.010,
                     157.025 –
                     157.033,
                     157.045 –
                     157.048,
                     157.050 –
                     157.073,
                     157.085,
–      6-7-2021    157.086,
                     157.100,
                     157.101,
                     157.115 –
                     157.117,
                     157.130 –
                     157.135,
                     157.145 –
                     157.149,
                     157.999
                     158.001 –
                     158.006,
                     158.015 –
                     158.019,
                     158.030 –
                     158.035,
                     158.050 –
–      6-7-2021    158.056,
                     158.065 –
                     158.082,
                     158.090,
                     158.091,
                     158.100 –
                     158.106,
                     158.999
                    
 
 
