TOWN OF WARSAW, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
This code is current to Ordinance passed 7-8-2002
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
E-Mail: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet:_http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR         Elmer Schorzman
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER  Barbara Edwards
COMMISSIONER  W.E. Foster
COMMISSIONER  Johnny Hollingsworth
COMMISSIONER  W.C. Martin
COMMISSIONER  Walter P. West
CITY OFFICIALS
TOWN MANAGER  J. Franklin Maness
TOWN ATTORNEY E.C. Thompson III
TOWN CLERK    Myra T. Mays
 
TOWN CHARTER
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF WARSAW
Sec. 1.  Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina,
and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That a town is hereby
established in the county of Duplin, by the name of Warsaw, with the following
metes and bounds, viz: beginning at Stewart's Creek Truss, on the railroad,
thence down said creek to the road leading to General William Hills'; thence a
direct line to the corner of the college lot on the main road; thence along the
back line of said lot to the southeast corner; thence the same direction 45
poles; thence 8 degrees south of west to the railroad; thence the same
direction 45 poles on the west side of the railroad; thence a parallel line
until it gets opposite said Truss; thence to the beginning.
Sec. 2.  Be it further enacted, That the government of said town of Warsaw,
shall be vested in the following persons and their successors in office:
Claibon J. Otis, N. Frederick, C. B. Hobson, S. Borden and R. Best.
Sec. 3.  Be it further enacted, That the commissioners and their successors in
office, appointed agreeable to the directions of this act, shall be, and they
are hereby incorporated into a body corporate, by the name of the commissioners
of the town of Warsaw, and by such name shall have succession, and a common
seal, sue and be sued, and shall have power from time to time, to make such
rules, by-laws and ordinances, as to them or a majority of them, shall seem
proper for the good government of said town; to appoint a town clerk,
constable, patrol and overseer of streets, and to make such allowance to said
officers, by fee or otherwise, as said commissioners may determine; that said
commissioners shall have full power to repair the streets, and lay out or alter
the same, provided it does not interfere with any dwelling or yard; they shall
have full power to assess and collect taxes upon all taxable property within
the limits of said town, and to do all other acts that may be deemed needful
for the good government and management of said town.
Sec. 4.  Be it further enacted, That an election shall be held in each and
every year, on the first Monday in February, by the inhabitants thereof,
qualified to vote for members of the House of Commons, for five commissioners,
who shall hold their office for one year, or until their successors are
appointed.
Sec. 5.  Be it further enacted, That the commissioners appointed under this
act, shall be, and continue to act as such, until their successors are
appointed. [Ratified the 5th day of February, 1855.]
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF WARSAW
THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT:
   SECTION 1.  That the inhabitants of the town of Warsaw shall continue to be
as heretofore a body corporate under the name and style of "The Town of
Warsaw," and under such name is hereby invested with all the privileges,
immunities and franchises, property and all other rights heretofore belonging
or appertaining to the town of Warsaw, and in and by that name may sue and be
sued, plead and be impleaded, acquire and hold property, real and personal, for
the use of the town as its board of commissioners may deem necessary and
expedient.
   Sec. 2.  The present mayor and commissioners and other officers of the town
of Warsaw shall be and the same are hereby declared to be like officers, with
the powers and duties of the town of Warsaw until their successors are elected
and qualified as hereinafter provided.
   Sec. 3.  That the corporate limits and boundaries of the said town of Warsaw
shall be as follows: Beginning at the fifty-fifth mile post of the Wilmington
and Weldon Railroad Company, where the old plank road crosses the said
railroad, and runs three-eights of a mile each way from said mile post, forming
a circle which is three-fourths of a mile in diameter, and the town authorities
are hereby instructed to survey and have marked out the above described
boundaries.
   Sec. 4.  The officers of the town of Warsaw shall consist of a mayor and
five commissioners, to be elected by ballot on the first Monday in May of each
year (or on such other day as may be designated and set apart by the general
law of the State for municipal elections); also a constable, secretary and
treasurer, to be chosen by the board of commissioners immediately after its
organization, to hold for one year or until their successors are elected and
qualified; and it shall be the duty of the mayor to give notice of the election
ten days pervious thereto by posters written or printed, and put up at three or
more public places within the corporate limits of the said town, and if the
board of commissioners of Duplin County shall fail or neglect to appoint
inspectors, two resident citizens shall be appointed by the mayor, who with
himself shall hold said election.
   Sec. 5.  That any qualified voter of this State shall be eleigible as mayor
or commissioners, and entitled to vote in the municipal elections of said town:
  Provided, he shall have resided within the corporation for ninety days next
preceding the election.
   Sec. 6.  That on the day of election the inspectors shall give due
attendance at the time and places appointed, shall be judges of the polls,
receive the votes, and conduct the election in the manner and during the same
hours of the day as are prescribed for election of members of the General
Assembly.
   Sec. 7.  At the close of the election the votes shall be counted by the
inspectors, and of such persons voted for as mayor the one having the largest
number of votes shall be declared duly elected mayor, and of such persons voted
for as commissioners the fire receiving the largest number of votes shall be
declared duly elected; and the officers thus elected shall be notified of their
election within two days after the same by the inspectors.
   Sec. 8.  The inspectors, before proceeding to act as such shall be sworn by
the mayor of a justice of the peace of Duplin County to conduct the election
fairly, impartially and according to the law, and in case of the absence of an
inspector his place shall be supplied by the commissioners.
   Sec. 9.  That if among the persons voted for for mayor there shall be an
equal number of votes between any two or more receiving the largest number of
votes, the commissioners elect shall proceed, within five days after their
qualification, to elect mayor of and from such persons thus tied, and if there
should be a like tie among commissioners thus voted for, the remaining
commissioners shall decide the tie within three days after their said
qualification.
   Sec. 10.  That the inspectors shall certify and subscribe the poll and
registration lists and return them to the town secretary, who shall take charge
of and preserve the same.
   Sec. 11.  That the mayor and commissioners after election, and before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, shall take and subscribe
(the mayor before some justice of the peace and the commissioners before the
mayor) the following oath: I, A. B., do solemnly swear that I will faithfully
and diligently endeavor to perform the duties of the office of mayor or
commissioner to which I have been elected, so help me God.
   Sec. 12.  That if any person who shall be elected mayor shall refuse to be
qualified, or there is any vacancy in the office after election and
qualification by reason of resignation or otherwise; or if the mayor be
temporarily absent from town, or be unable to discharge the duties of his
office from sickness or otherwise, the commissioners shall choose one of their
number to act as mayor pro tempore, or to fill the unexpired term; and likewise
in case of a commissioner refusing to qualify, or in case of resignation or
inability to act, the remaining commissioners shall elect some suitable person
within the limits of said town to fill the vacancy.
   Sec. 13.  That any person elected mayor or commissioner for said town who
shall refuse to qualify and act as such shall forfeit and pay to the equal use
of the town and of him who shall sue therefor the sum of twenty dollars.
   Sec. 14.  That the mayor, as a peace officer, shall have within the
corporate limits all the powers and authority of a justice of the peace and as
a judicial officer within the same all the power, jurisdiction and authority
necessary to issue process upon, and to hear and determine all cases arising
upon the ordinances of the board of commissioners, to impose penalties upon any
adjudged violation thereof, to fine and imprison either in the guard house of
the town or the common jail of the county, and to execute all laws and
ordinances made by the commissioners for the government and regulation of the
town:  Provided, that in all cases any person dissatisfied with his judgment
may appeal to the superior court of Duplin county upon recognizance, with
security for his appearance at the next term thereof.
   Sec. 15.  That the mayor may issue his precepts upon his own information of
any violation of any town ordinance without a written affidavit, and he may
issue the same to any constable of the town, or to such other officers to whom
a justice of the peace may direct his precepts.
   Sec. 16.  The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the town commissioners,
and vote in no case escept in an equal vote, between said sommissioners, then
he shall give the casting vote.  He shall keep a fiathful minute of all the
precepts issued by him, and of all his judicial proceedings.  Judgments
rendered by him shall have all the forece, virtue and validity of judgments
rendered by a justice of the peace, and may be executed and enforced against
the parties in the courts of Duplin and elsewhere, and by the same means and
manner as if the same had been rendered by a justice of the peace of Duplin
county.
   Sec. 17.  That every violation of a town ordinance shall be a misdemeanor,
and shall be punished by a fine or not more than fifty dollars or imprisonment
not more than thirty days.
   Sec. 18.  That the mayor shall have power to imprison for fines imposed by
him hunder the provisions of this act, and in such cases the prisoner shall
only be discharged as now or as may hereafter be provided by law.
   Sec. 19.  That all fines collected under the privisions of the foregoing act
for violation of town ordinances shall go to the use of the town.
   Sec. 20.  That the mayor shall be entitled by law to the same fees as a
justice of the peace in like cases, and an additional salary to be allowed by
the board of commissioners not to exceed one hundred dollars a year.
   Sec. 21.  That the mayor shall have and it shall be his duty to exercise all
the jurisdiction, powers and duties given to justices of the peace in chapter
twenty-five of the code, entitled "Crimes and Punishments," subject to the
restrictions and limitations contained in that chapter; Provided, the mayor
shall not take jurisdiction of any offence committed beyond the limits of the
town.
   Sec. 22.  The commissioners shall form one board and a majority of them
shall be competent to perform all the duties prescribed for commissioners
unless otherwise provided.  Within five days after their election they shall
convene for the transaction of business, and shall fix their stated days for
meeting during the year, which shall be as often as once a month during the
same.  Special meetings of the commissioners shall also be held on the call of
the mayor or a majority of the commissioners, and of every such meeting when
called by the mayor the commissioners not joining in the call shall be notified
in writing.
   Sec. 23.  The commissioners shall have power to make and to provide for the
execution thereof such ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations for the good
government of the town as they may deem necessary: PROVIDED, the same be
allowed by the provisions of this act, and be consistent with the laws of the
land.
   Sec. 24.  The commissioners shall have power and it shall be their duty to
provide for and secure the peace, good order and tranquility of the town
against disturbance by quarrels, loud, profane or obscene language, riots,
affrays, trespasses or other breaches of the peace, or irregularities tending
to disturb the peace of the citizens.  They shall provide for repairing the
streets, sidewalks and alleys, and cause the same to be kept clean and in good
order, take all proper means to prevent and extinguish fires, make regulations
for the observance of the Sabbath, suppress and remove nuisances, and prohibit
any indecent exposure of the person by imposing such fines and imprisonment in
all cases within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace as they shall deem
adequate.
   Sec. 25.  That the commissioners may require and compel the abatement and
removal of all nuisances, and shall have power to pull down and remove any old
house, barn or other building in said town, when the same may be considered
dangerous from fire or other causes to the safety, the person or property of
adjacent residents:  PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that before such removal the owner of
such property shall be notified in writing by the secretary of such board of
the action, and allow one month for repairing or removing of such building.
   Sec. 26.  That the commissioners shall have power to prevent dogs, hogs,
horses and other brutes from running at large in the town, and the town marshal
may by order of the mayor seize and detain such animals till such fines and
cost as may be imposed for such violations may be paid by the owner, and if not
paid may sell the same at public auction in said town after giving three days'
notice at three public places therein, and apply the proceeds to the payment of
said cost and fine, and pay any surplus to the owner of the stock.
   Sec. 27.  That they may prohibit the firing of any gun, pistol, fire-
cracker, gunpowder, other materials or other dangerous combustibles in the
streets, public grounds, or elsewhere in said town.
   Sec. 28.  The commissioners may build or establish a guard-house in which to
secure and confine offenders against town ordinances, and for feeding such
prisoners the town marshal shall be allowed such compensation as is allowed to
the keeper of the common jail in Duplin county:  PROVIDED, in the above case,
that no prisoner or offender shall be confined in said guard-house more than
twenty-four hours without first having had his case heard and determined before
the mayor.
   See. 29  The commissioners shall have power to lay out and open any new
street or streets within the corporate limits of said town whenever by them
deemed necessary, and they shall have the power at any time to widen, enlarge,
change, extend, narrow and discontinue any street or streets within said
corporate limits whenever they may so determine, by making a reasonable
compensation to owners of property damaged thereby.  In cases where the owners
of land cannot agree with the commissioners regarding the value of the land or
property and the damages, the mayor of the town shall issue his warrant to the
town marshall commanding him to summon three disinterested freeholders of said
town, who together with two freeholders as above to be selected by the party
claiming damages, shall determine, the value of such property and assess the
damages, after which they shall return a report of their proceedings findings,
and so forth, into the office of the mayor, there to be filed.  Before
proceeding to view said premises, and assess said damages, the parties so sumo
ned shall take the following oath before the mayor of the town or some justice
of the peace:  "I, A. B., do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully
and honestly discharge the duty of appraiser for which I have been chosen, and
a true report make, so help me God."  If the party damaged or claiming damages
refuses to select two appraisers as provided above, the report of the three
summoned in behalf of the town shall be final:  PROVIDED:  that if either of
the commissioners or the opposite party be dissatisfied with the report of the
freeholders, then they may appeal to the superior court of Duplin county, and
in that case the report of valuation and the proceedings therein shall be sent
up by said appraisers to said court, there to be determined.
   Sed. 30.  The commissioners shall have power to levy and collect the
following taxes, viz:  upon all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits of said town; upon all money on hand; solvent credits; upon
all polls and upon all other subjects of taxation taxed by the General Asxembly
and the laws of the State for public purposes:  PROVIDED, that annual tax on
property shall not exceed thirty-three and one-third cents on the one hundred
dollars' valuation thereof, nor shall the poll tax and street commutation tax
exceed the sum of one dollar annually.
   Sec. 31.  That in addition to subjects liable to taxation for State purpose,
the commissioners shall have power to levy and collect a specific or license
tax upon the following subjects:  all itinerant or traveling merchants,
peddlers, bar-rooms, liquor dealers or auctionners who shall offer to sell
within the corporate limits of said town.  upon all venders of cider, patent
medicine or nostrums of any kind; upon every show, concert, menagerie, sleight-
of-hand, or theatrical performances exhibiting within said corporation, and
upon every hog or other stock running at large within the same, whether
belonging to persons inside or outside the corporation.
   Sec. 32.  That all persons liable to taxation of any kind in said town
shall, on or before the first day of June in each and every year, make a return
of their respective lists of taxable property, as assessed by the township
assessors for the State, to the secretary or clerk of said board commissioners;
such lists shall give a description of the tracts or lots of land, the taxable
polls and all other property liable to taxation by the persons returning the
same, and shall be sworn to before some justice of the peace or before the
secretary or clerk, who is hereby authorized and empowered to administer oaths
required by law to be taken by persons making such returns.  The said lists
thus taken shall be filed with the secretary or clerk, who shall, after a levy
of taxes assessed thereon, in the same manner as tax lists are made or required
to be made for the collection of State taxes.  The secretary or clerk shall
also make out a list of all property and polls remaining unlisted in said town,
which shall be subject to double tax.  The usual tax list made as aforesaid by
the secretary or clerk and placed in the hands of the marshal or tax collector,
shall have the force and effect of a judgment and execution for the taxes
assessed and appearing on said lists respectively; and the same may be
collected by levy and sale of the property of the party owing such taxes on
giving such notice as is required by law on execution from one of the superior
courts of the State, and the officer charged with the duty of collecting such
taxes shall have all the power vested by law in sheriffs or tax collectors for
the collection of taxes due the State.
   Sec. 33.  That said taxes shall be due on the first Monday of October in
each and every year, but the tax collector shall have no power to enforce
collection of same by sale before the first day of November next ensuing.  When
the taxes due shall be unpaid on the first day of November, the tax collector
shall proceed to collect the same in the manner prescribed by law for the
collection of State taxes by the sheriffs of the State.
   Sec. 34.  The marshal or town tax collector appointed by the commissioners
is hereby authorized and empowered to sell real estate in said town for taxes,
whether such real estate belongs to a resident or non-resident, or persons
unknown, and so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the taxes due and
cost of collection; and the owner, or any one for him, shall be allowed to
redeem any property thus sold at any time within two years from the sale on
paying the purchaser the amount of tax, costs and expenses of sale, with
twenty-five per centum thereon, and one dollar for the expense of
reconveyance.  If the real estate thus sold is not redeemed within the time
specified, then the tax collector shall convey the same in fee to the
purchaser, and the recital in said deed that the taxes were due and unpaid at
the time of sale shall be prima facie evidence of the fact.
   Sec. 35.  That it shall not be lawful for the board of commissioners of
Duplin County to grant license to retail spirituous liquor within the limits of
the town of Warsaw without the written permission of the commissioners of said
town, attested and signed by the secretary, and presented by the applicants at
the time of application and filed with the register of deeds of said county,
and if such license be thus granted by the board of county commissioners
without such permission the same shall be void and the person obtaining such
license shall be indictable as in other cases of retailing without license.
   Sec. 36.  That it shall be the duty of the constable or marshal to see that
the laws, ordinances and orders of the commissioners are enforced, and to
report all breaches thereof to the mayor; to preserve the peace of the town by
suppressing disturbances and apprehending offenders, and for that purpose he
shall have all the power and authority vested in sheriffs and county
constables, and he shall have the same fees on all processes and precepts
executed or returned by him which may be allowed to sheriffs of the county on
like processes and precepts, and also such other compensation as the
commissioners may allow.  He shall execute all processes issued or directed to
him by the mayor or any justice of the peace of Warsaw township within the
limit of said town, and to that end may summon any citizen of said town to his
assistance, who upon refusal to act shall be considered guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon complaint of said marshal shall be tried and punished in
the discretion of the mayor within the limits prescribed in the jurisdiction of
a justice of the peace.  He shall enter into a good and sufficient justified
bond in the sum of five hundred dollars, payable to the State of North Carolina
and approved by the commissioners, and shall at the end of the month pay over
to the town treasurer all fines, penalties and forfeitures, together with other
moneys collected by him, and report the same to the commissioners under oath.
   Sec. 37.  That the town constable may arrest parties offending against town
ordinances and endeavoring to make their escape without the limits of said town
without a warrant, and he shall commit all offenders in a state of intoxication
to the guard house until they become sufficiently sober to appear before the
mayor for trial.  The town marshal or constable shall by virtue of his office
be town tax collector, unless he fails to give the bond required by
commissioners for that purpose, or is otherwise deemed incompetent.
   Sec. 38.  The secretary or clerk of said town shall by virtue of his office
as such, after his appointment or election by commissioners, be town treasurer,
who shall keep regular minutes of the proceedings of the board, preserve all
books, papers and articles committed to his care during his continuance in
office, and enter into a good and sufficient justified bond as treasurer to
honestly and faithfully disburse all moneys coming into his hands and a just
and true account render when required by commissioners.
   Sec. 39.  That the clerk and treasurer shall call on all persons who may
have in their hands any money or securities belonging to the town which ought
to be paid or delivered into the treasury, and keep safely the same for the use
of the town, to disburse the funds according to such orders as may be duly
drawn on him in the manner hereinafter specified.  He shall keep in a book
provided for that purpose a fair and correct account of all moneys received and
disbursed by him and at the expiration of his term deliver the same with all
moneys and property of said town in his possession to his successor in office.
   Sec. 40.  That all persons to whom said town shall become indebted shall
present their claims duly sworn to to the board of commissioners, who shall
audit the same and issue an order to the town treasurer for the payment thereof
if considered just, and the treasurer shall in no case pay any claim presented
to him till the same shall have been audited and approved by the commissioners
and an order made therefor.
   Sec. 41.  That all officers of said town of Warsaw who shall on demand fail
to turn over to their successors in office the property, money, books, or
effects of the town, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction before the superior court of Duplin county shall be fined at the
discretion of the same.
   Sec. 42.  This act shall be in force from and after its ratification, and
all laws and clauses of laws coming in conflict with the same are hereby
repealed.
   In the General Assembly read three times, and ratified this the 9th day of
March, A. D. 1885.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Warsaw shall be
designated as the Code of Warsaw, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The governing body of the Town of Warsaw, North
Carolina.  BOARD shall be equivalent to BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Warsaw, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Duplin County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in these cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TOWN.  The Town of Warsaw, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or giving of notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.  When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.  The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section              
of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Warsaw, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....”  The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Warsaw, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....”  The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
         
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
         
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
         
34.   VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT; RELATED REGULATIONS
         
35.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
         
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
37.   PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Council-Manager form of government
Cross-reference:
   Form of government, see Town Charter
§ 30.01  COUNCIL-MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town of Warsaw
as set forth in P.L. 258, as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that
the town shall operate under the Council-Manager form of government in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-147 et seq. and any charter provisions not in
conflict therewith.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-8-2002)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICIALS; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
Administrative Offices
   
31.01   Office of the Town Mayor
   
31.02   Office of the Town Clerk
   
31.03   Office of the Town Manager
Board of Commissioners
   
31.15   Committees in general
   
31.16   Regular meetings; time and place
   
31.17   Order of business
   
31.18   Previous question
   
31.19   Motions having precedence
   
31.20   Motions to adjourn
   
31.21   Resignations of members
   
31.22   Vacancies
Ordinances
   
31.35   Effective date
   
31.36   One subject
   
31.37   Official copy
   
31.38   Appropriation of money
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
§ 31.01  OFFICE OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause all ordinances of the town
to be enforced and to attend and preside over all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   It shall further be the duty of the Mayor within 30 days after the
close of each year to require a report to the Board of Commissioners from the
various departments of the town government for the previous year and recommend
the adjustments as he or she may see fit, and the Mayor shall perform other
duties as the Board of Commissioners may from time to time require.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2001)
Statutory reference:
   State laws regarding the duties of the Mayor, see G.S. §§ 160A-67 and 160A-
69
§ 31.02  OFFICE OF THE TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Board at the organizational
meeting each year.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board and shall
regularly and fairly record all of their proceedings in a book to be kept by
him or her for that purpose.
      (2)   He or she shall also keep a well bound book to be styled the code
of ordinances, in which he or she shall fairly and correctly transcribe all
ordinances which are enacted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to keep true, accurate and just
books of accounts of the dealings and transactions of the town, which books
shall show at all times the true condition of the town, its resources and
liabilities and the disposition and use of the monies coming under the control
of the town.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place all
monies, records, and accounts.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall disburse funds for the various purposes of the
town only when an appropriation for the purpose has been made in the annual
budget and the disbursement is authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   The Town Clerk shall perform the other duties as the Board of
Commissioners may from time to time require.
(Prior Code, § 2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Code of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-77
   Local government budgeting and fiscal control, see G.S. §§ 159-7et seq.
   State laws regarding the duties of the Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
§ 31.03  OFFICE OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The manager shall be the chief administrator of the town.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible to the Board for administering all
municipal affairs placed in his or her charge by them, and shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   He or she shall appoint and suspend or remove all town officers and
employees not elected by the people, and whose appointment or removal is not
otherwise provided for by law, except the town attorney, in accordance with
such general personnel rules, regulations, policies, ordinances as the Board
may adopt.
      (2)   He or she shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices, and agencies of the town subject to the general direction
and control of the Board, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Board and recommend any
measures that he or she deems expedient.
      (4)   He or she shall see that all laws of the State, the Town Charter
and the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the Board are faithfully
executed within the town.
      (5)    He or she shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital
program to the Board.
      (6)   He or she shall annually submit to the Board and make available to
the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the town as of the end of the fiscal year.
      (7)   He or she shall make any other reports that the Board may require
concerning the operation of the town departments, offices, and agencies subject
to his or her direction and control.
      (8)   He or she shall perform any other duties that may be required or
authorized by the Board.
(G.S. § 160A-148)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.15  COMMITTEES IN GENERAL.
   The Mayor and Board may create the committees of the Board for special
purposes as they deem best.
(Prior Code, § 2-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of Council-Manager cities and powers and duties of Manager,
see G.S. § 160A-147 et seq.
   Town Board to generally organize town government, see G.S. § 160A-146
§ 31.16  REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The regular meetings of the Mayor and Board shall be held on the second
Monday of each month at 7:30 p.m. at the Town Hall unless otherwise designated
by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Time and place of regular meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 31.17  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business shall be as follows:
      (1)   Reading of the minutes of the last regular and intervening
meetings, and correcting and approving the same;
      (2)   Report of regular committees;
      (3)   Report of special committees;
      (4)   Report of officers;
      (5)   Unfinished business;
      (6)   Communications, petitions and grievances;
      (7)   Motions, resolutions and ordinances; and
      (8)   If the Board directs any matter to special business of a future
meeting, the same shall have precedence over all other business at the
meetings.
   (B)   No proposition shall be entertained by the Mayor until it has been
seconded, and every proposition shall, when required by the Mayor or any
member, be reduced to writing.
(Prior Code, § 2-1012)
§ 31.18  PREVIOUS QUESTION.
   (A)   The previous question may be called at any time by a majority of the
members present.
   (B)   The ayes and noes may be called for by any member.
(Prior Code, § 2-1013)
§ 31.19  MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   (A)   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received
except as follows:
      (1)   To lay on the table;
      (2)   To postpone to a time certain;
      (3)   To postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   To refer to a committee;
      (5)   To amend;
      (6)   To strike out or insert; or
      (7)   To divide.
   (B)   Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order
named.
(Prior Code, § 2-1014)
§ 31.20  MOTIONS TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided without
debate.
(Prior Code, § 2-1015)
§ 31.21  RESIGNATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of any member of the Board shall be in writing, and the
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
considered by unanimous consent.
(Prior Code, § 2-1016)
§ 31.22  VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy caused by the death, resignation or disqualification of a member
of the Board shall be filled by a majority vote of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions regarding vacancies on the Board, see G.S. § 160A-63
ORDINANCES
§ 31.35  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof except
ordinances specifying some other effective date or ordinances required by state
law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-1021)
Statutory reference:
   General ordinance-making power, see G.S. § 160A-174
   Pleading and proving town ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 31.36  ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject except appropriation
ordinances which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
(Prior Code, § 2-1022)
§ 31.37  OFFICIAL COPY.
   (A)   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Town Clerk shall be known as an
official copy of any ordinance for the town.
   (B)   All ordinances or a true copy thereof shall be inserted in this code
in the proper chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1023)
§ 31.38  APPROPRIATION OF MONEY.
   No appropriation ordinance or an ordinance to alter or repeal an
appropriation ordinance shall be enacted at any meeting other than a regular
meeting except by a unanimous vote of the entire Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1024)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments; General Provisions
   
32.01   Departments enumerated
   
32.02   Department heads
Planning Board
   
32.15   Creation
   
32.16   Members
   
32.17   Organization and rules
   
32.18   Staff and finances
   
32.19   Planning Board; general powers and duties; purpose
Cemetery Board of Trustees
   
32.35   Creation
   
32.36   Membership; officers
   
32.37   Terms of office
   
32.38   Reports to Board
   
32.39   Authority
DEPARTMENTS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The town government shall be composed of the following departments:
   (A)   Police Department;
   (B)   Public Works (streets and sidewalks).
(Prior Code, § 2-3001)
§ 32.02  DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   The department heads shall consist of the Superintendent of Public
Works, the Chief of Police, the Town Clerk, and the other department heads as
shall be deemed necessary and appointed from time to time by the Manager.
   (B)   The Manager shall be appointed by the Board to serve at its pleasure
and shall be immediately responsible to the Board.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall be appointed by the Manager
to serve at its pleasure and shall be immediately responsible to the Manager
and Board for the affairs of all public works, including streets, sidewalks,
water supply and distribution, sewage collection and disposal and garbage and
refuse collection and disposal, and the other matters as may be appointed to
him or her by the Manager.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Manager to serve at its
pleasure, and shall be the executive head of the Police Department and shall be
directly responsible to the Manager under the supervision of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-3002)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.15  CREATION.
   A Town Planning Board is hereby created under the authority of G.S. § 160A-
361.
(Prior Code, § 2-7001)
§ 32.16  MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Town Planning Board shall consist of seven members selected based
on appropriate proportion of residents living within both the corporate limits
and the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(G.S. §§ 160A-361 and 160A-362)
   (B)   At the time of their appointment, members shall hold no other official
municipal government position except on a zoning board, zoning board of appeals
or housing authority board.
   (C)   The Mayor may appoint two ex officio members to the Board who shall
have no vote but who shall act as advisors to the Planning Board.
   (D)   The citizen members shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (E)   All members of the Planning Board shall serve as members without
compensation.
   (F)   Members may, after a public hearing, be removed by the Mayor for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.
   (G)   The Mayor shall file a written statement of reasons for the removal.
   (H)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term
shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-7002)
§ 32.17  ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall elect its
Chairperson from among the appointed citizen members and create and fill the
other of its offices as it may determine.  The term of office for the
Chairperson shall be two years.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall hold at least one regular meeting in each
month which shall be open to the public.
   (C)   It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which
record shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 2-7003)
§ 32.18  STAFF AND FINANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may contract with town planners, engineers,
architects, and other consultants for the services as it may require.
   (B)   The expenditures of the Planning Board, exclusive of gifts, shall be
within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Board of Commissioners
and no indebtedness for which the town shall be liable shall be contracted by
the Planning Board unless an appropriation is made by the Board of
Commissioners for the purposes, and then only to the extent of the
appropriation.
   (C)   The Planing Board shall have the right to accept gifts and donations
for the exercise of its functions and for giving publicity to its work and may
expend the money received from the donations and gifts as in its judgment may
appear best.
(Prior Code, § 2-7004)
§ 32.19  PLANNING BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES; PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Board to make
and adopt a suggested master plan for the physical development of the
municipality or modified parts of the plan as the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners may deem best.
      (2)   The plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts, and
descriptive matter, may show the Planning Board's recommendations for the
development of the territory, including, among other things, the general
location, character, and extent of streets, viaducts, bridges, waterways,
waterfronts, boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation
fields, and other public ways, grounds and open spaces, the general location of
public buildings and other public property, and the general location and extent
of utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or operated,
for water, light, sanitation, transportation, communication, power and other
purposes; also the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating,
abandonment, change of use or extension of any of the foregoing ways, grounds,
open spaces, buildings, property, utilities or terminals, as well as a zoning
plan for the control of the height, area, bulk, location and use of buildings
and premises.
      (3)   The Planning Board may from time to time recommend amendments,
extensions, or additions to the plan.
(Prior Code, § 2-7005)
   (B)   (1)   Before the adoption by the Planning Board of the plan or any
part, amendment, extension, or addition, the Planning Board shall hold at least
one public hearing thereon.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in
any understanding of the plan and to that end may hold public hearings, publish
and distribute copies of the plan or of any report and may employ other means
of publicity and education as it may determine.
      (3)   Members of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Planning
Board, may attend town planning conferences or meetings of town planning
institutes or hearings upon pending town planning legislation, and the Planning
Board may, by resolution spread upon its minutes, pay the reasonable traveling
expenses incident to the attendance.
      (4)   All officers and employees of the town shall render reasonable
assistance and any information to the Planning Board as may be requested by the
Planning Board for its work.
      (5)   The Planning Board shall from time to time, and at least annually,
submit reports in writing to the Board of Commissioners giving information
regarding the condition of the town and any plans or proposals for the
development of the town and estimates of the cost thereof, and these reports
shall contain other recommendations as the Planning Board feels should have
immediate attention.
(Prior Code, § 2-7007)
   (C)   In the preparation of the plan or modified plan or parts thereof, the
Planning Board shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of
present conditions and future growth of the municipality and with due regard to
its relation to neighboring territory.  The plan shall be made with the general
purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious
development of the municipality and its environs which will, in accordance with
present and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy
in the process of development, including, among other things, adequate
provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers,
adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful and
convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design and
arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate
provision of public utilities and other public requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-7006)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to create a planning board, see G.S. § 160A-361
CEMETERY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 32.35  CREATION.
   There is hereby created a board to be known as the Cemetery Trustees of the
Town of Warsaw.
(Prior Code, § 2-7051)  (Ord. passed 8-4-1974)
§ 32.36  MEMBERSHIP; OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Trustees shall consist of five members, and at no time shall there
be sitting less than three, nor more than five members.
   (B)   The Trustees shall have as officers a Chairperson, a Secretary and a
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-7052)  (Ord. passed 8-4-1974)
§ 32.37  TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Three members of the Trustees shall serve for terms of three years and two
members shall serve for two years.
(Prior Code, § 2-7053)  (Ord. passed 8-4-1974)
§ 32.38  REPORTS TO BOARD.
   The Trustees shall from time to time, as directed by the Board, make reports
and provide information as the Board may require.
(Prior Code § 2-7054)  (Ord. passed 8-4-1974)
§ 32.39  AUTHORITY.
   The Trustees are created pursuant to, and shall be governed in their
proceedings by the provisions of G.S. §§ 160A-349.1 et seq.
(Prior Code § 2-7055)  (Ord. passed 8-4-1974)
CHAPTER 33:  LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Governmental authority
   
33.02   Chief of Police; duties
   
33.03   Divisions
   
33.04   Employment
   
33.05   Standard work week
   
33.06   General duties of police officers
   
33.07   Authority to summon aid
   
33.08   Resisting or abusing police officer
   
33.09   Uniforms and police equipment
   
33.10   Jurisdiction
   
33.11   Additional duties
   
33.12   Suspension
   
33.13   Demotion or dismissal
   
33.14   Appeal
   
33.15   Final recourse
   
33.16   Other disciplinary measures
   
33.17   Charges become part of personnel file
Reserve Police
   
33.30   Establishment
   
33.31   Chief of Police to control; appointments and removals
   
33.32   Duties
   
33.33   Identification
   
33.34   Carrying and custody of firearms
   
33.35   Law enforcement powers
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management, see
Ch. 36
   Personnel Administration, see
Ch. 37
   Volunteer Fire Department; Related Regulations, see
Ch. 34
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01  GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of the Chief, and as many
police officers as the Board shall from time to time determine and elect, and
as many special police officers as the Manager and the Board may deem necessary
to appoint for special purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement generally, G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 33.02  CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is the executive head of the Police Department,
and shall be directly responsible to the Manager.
   (B)   The Chief shall keep the Manager and/or Board informed of the
Department's activities and make reports to the Board that may from time to
time be required, and he or she shall perform the other duties as may be
required by the Board or Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-1002)
§ 33.03  DIVISIONS.
   The Police Department shall consist of the following divisions:
   (A)   Operations Division.
      (1)   The Operations Division shall be headed by an operations officer
with the rank of captain, whose function it will be to assist the Chief of
Police in the management and functioning of the Police Department, and who
shall have authority pursuant to instructions from the Chief of Police to issue
orders and instructions and attend to all details of the Police Department.
      (2)   The operations officer shall further have the authority and
responsibility of inspecting the police station, jail, records of the
dispatcher, patrol cars, equipment, and personnel.
   (B)   Patrol Division.  The Patrol Division shall consist of those police
officers whose duty it is to normally patrol the streets and areas within the
corporate limits, and to perform those functions, duties and responsibilities
customarily performed by police officers.  The Patrol Division shall be divided
into two shifts, with a sergeant in charge of each shift and each officer
within the shift shall be directly responsible to the sergeant.
   (C)   Records and Jail Division.  The Records and Jail Division shall
consist of a jailer, whose general responsibilities will be to maintain order
and discipline within the police station, to make frequent inspections of the
jail, care for prisoners and insure that complete entries are made in the jail
log.
   (D)   Communications Division.  The Communications Division shall consist of
a dispatcher, whose responsibility it will be to keep a complete radio log,
record all incoming calls, both radio and telephone, and to generally be
responsible for communications.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003)
§ 33.04  EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the Chief
of Police and shall be entitled to pay and allowances as may from time to time
be fixed by the Board.
      (2)   Provided, however, that all members must meet the requirements set
forth in the Criminal Justice Training and Standards Act of 1973, as amended.
   (B)   Before assuming duty as a police officer, each officer shall swear and
subscribe to the oath of office and shall be subject to the provisions as set
forth in the certain Policy and Procedures Manual of the Police Department of
the Town of Warsaw, which is incorporated by reference and fully made a part of
this section, the same as if it were set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1004)
§ 33.05  STANDARD WORK WEEK.
   (A)   The standard work week for any police officer shall be 40 hours per
week, five days per week, at eight hours per day.
   (B)   Officers who are required to work more than the 40 hour week shall be
paid for the additional hours of work on the same basis and at the same rate
per hour as then normal and regular pay.
(Prior Code, § 3-1005)
§ 33.06  GENERAL DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Police Department shall:
   (A)   Carry out all orders of the Board;
   (B)   Enforce all local, state and federal laws and ordinances of the town
and state; and
   (C)   At all times preserve the peace and protect the property and the
safety of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1007)
§ 33.07  AUTHORITY TO SUMMON AID.
   The Chief of Police or any police officer shall have authority, if required
in the execution of his or her lawful duty, to summon a sufficient number of
people to aid him or her in enforcing the law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1008)
§ 33.08  RESISTING OR ABUSING POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist a police officer in the
discharge of his or her duty, or to aid and abet in the resistance, or for any
reason to abuse the police officer in the discharge of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 3-1009) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.09  UNIFORMS AND POLICE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall prescribe the uniforms and badge design for
the members of the Police Department and direct the manner in which the members
of the Department shall be armed.
   (B)   Anyone other than a member of the Police Department who shall wear the
uniform or badge shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction be fined
or imprisoned as set forth under the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-1010) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.10  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In addition to the authority vested in police officers within the
corporate limits, police officers shall have all the powers vested in law
enforcement officers by statute or common law within one mile of the corporate
limits of the town, and on all property owned or leased by the town wherever it
may be located.
   (B)   Provided, that any officer pursuing a defender outside the corporate
limits shall be entitled to all the privileges, immunities and benefits to
which he or she would be entitled if acting within the corporate limits in
making an arrest.
(Prior Code, § 3-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of policemen, see G.S. § 160A-286
§ 33.11  ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department should familiarize themselves with
the laws involving privilege or license taxes within the town and they shall
from time to time, as required, assist the Tax Collector in the collection of
local license fees, by checking suspicious places of business and requiring
licenses to be properly exhibited.
(Prior Code, § 3-1012)
   (B)   (1)   Any member of the Police Department who discovers a fire shall
immediately sound the alarm and remain at the scene until the fire truck
arrives and assist in the direction of the truck and take action as is
reasonably necessary to protect persons and prevent loss of property, and
direct traffic.
      (2)   Any officer in charge of any relief or shift upon report of a
serious fire shall cause a sufficient number of police officers to be available
to handle the situation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1013)
§ 33.12  SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may suspend any police officer when there is any
criminal or civil action pending against the police officer, when the
suspension in the judgment of the Chief of Police would be in the best interest
of the town.
   (B)   This suspension may be with or without pay, depending upon whether or
not in the judgment of the Chief it is a disciplinary or non-disciplinary
measure.
   (C)   Upon reinstatement and for good cause the Board may authorize full
recovery of any pay and/or benefits for the period of suspension.
(Prior Code, § 3-1014)
§ 33.13  DEMOTION OR DISMISSAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may further demote or dismiss any police officer
when in the judgment of the Chief, the officer is guilty of any gross
negligence, does any act which manifests disloyalty to the Police Department or
to the town, the state or the United States.
   (B)   Written notice from the Chief shall be required before any police
officer is demoted or dismissed pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-1015)
§ 33.14  APPEAL.
   (A)   Any officer who has been suspended, demoted or dismissed may make a
written complaint to the Chief of Police and the Chief will respond to the
written complaint within ten days from date of receipt.
   (B)   Should the police officer not be satisfied with the written response
of the Chief, he or she may then request an audience with the Chief of Police
and the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-1016)
§ 33.15  FINAL RECOURSE.
   (A)   Should the police officer not be satisfied with the disposition of his
or her complaint or request after a meeting with the Town Administrative Clerk-
Treasurer and Chief of Police, he or she may then request a further meeting
with the Chief of Police, Town Manager and the Mayor.
   (B)   (1)   The Manager at this meeting may take action as he or she deems
necessary and his or her decision shall be final.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the Manager, if he or she deems it
necessary and expedient may request consideration by the full Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-1017)
§ 33.16  OTHER DISCIPLINARY MEASURES.
   The Chief of Police for minor infractions and violations of regulations or
policy may reprimand in writing any police officer, suspend the pay of any
officer, or cause the forfeiture of vacation or annual leave according to the
gravity of the offense in the judgment of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 3-1018)
§ 33.17  CHARGES BECOME PART OF PERSONNEL FILE.
   The Chief of Police shall further have full authority to direct whether or
not any disciplinary action taken against a police officer shall become part of
the personnel file of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1019)
RESERVE POLICE
§ 33.30  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established within the Town Police Department, as a division
thereof, a Reserve Police Division.  The Reserve Police Division shall be a
volunteer organization, composed of as many members as may from time to time be
determined by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-1031)
§ 33.31  CHIEF OF POLICE TO CONTROL; APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The Reserve Police Division shall be under the direct control of
the Chief of Police, acting under the general supervision of the Board.
      (2)   All appointments and removals of members of the Reserve Police
Division shall be made in the same manner and under the same policies and
procedures as may from time to time be established for appointment and removal
of regular police officers.
   (B)   (1)   The Reserve Police Division shall have no commanding officer,
nor any officers, and all members shall bear the rank of patrol officer.
      (2)   Each member of the Reserve Police Division shall take the oath of
office of a regular police officer.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall provide for adequate training of members
of the Reserve Police Division and of candidates for membership.
(Prior Code, § 3-1032)
§ 33.32  DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The duties of the Reserve Police Division, subject at all times
to the direction, supervision and control of the Chief of Police, shall be to
assist the regular members of the Police Department in the enforcement of law
and the maintenance of peace and order when called to active duty by the Chief
of Police.
      (2)   The Chief shall by order establish rules and regulations to govern
the Reserve Police Division, to fix the specific duties of its members, and to
provide for the maintenance of discipline.
      (3)   Members of the Reserve Police Division shall obey the instructions
of regular police officers in carrying out their duties.
   (B)   The Chief may prescribe other duties than those mentioned herein to be
performed by the Reserve Police Division, with the approval of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-1033)
§ 33.33  IDENTIFICATION.
   An identification card and the other insignia or evidence of identity as the
Chief may prescribe shall be issued to each member of the Reserve Police
Division who must carry the card and other identification at all times while on
duty, and who must surrender them upon the termination of his or her
membership.
(Prior Code, § 3-1034)
§ 33.34  CARRYING AND CUSTODY OF FIREARMS.
   No member of the Reserve Police Division shall, while on duty, carry or use
any firearm except upon the express order the Chief of Police, and all official
firearms shall be kept in custody of the Police Department except when issued
to a member of the Reserve Division for use on active duty while accompanied by
and under the supervision of one or more regular police officers.
(Prior Code, § 3-1035) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.35  LAW ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   No member or members of the Reserve Police Division shall enforce, nor
attempt to enforce, any law except when called to active duty, and except when
immediately accompanied by one or more regular police officers.
(Prior Code, § 3-1036)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to establish an auxiliary police division, see
G.S. § 160A-282
CHAPTER 34:  VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT; RELATED REGULATIONS
Section
   
34.01   Organization
   
34.02   Duties of Chief
   
34.03   General authority
   
34.04   Interfering with fire fighters or fire apparatus
   
34.05   Permission to ride on fire trucks
   
34.06   Interfering with fire alarm
   
34.07   Signs
   
34.08   Regulations regarding fire trucks
   
34.09   Use of fire trucks
   
34.10   Description of fire limits
   
34.11   Regulations within fire limits
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention, see
Ch. 91
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-291et seq.
§ 34.01  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the
Volunteer Fire Department and a sufficient number of fire fighters (voluntary,
part- or full-time) to maintain and operate the Department.
   (B)   (1)   The Board approves the appointment to the Department of all
members.
      (2)   The members of the Volunteer Fire Department will elect the
different officers each year.
   (C)   (1)   The Department may from time to time adopt its own rules and
regulations governing the Department subject to the approval of the Board.
      (2)   However, any rules and regulations shall include provisions for at
least one training period each month and that any member who is absent for two
consecutive meetings without a bona fide reason be dropped from the Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-2001)
§ 34.02  DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The duties of the Chief, subject to supervision by the Board shall be as
follows:
   (A)   To have general control of the Department, the personnel, apparatus,
and fire alarm systems;
   (B)   To command the Department and supervise the fire fighting and
extinguishing of all fires and to have the authority to keep away from the
vicinity of all fires, any and all idle, disorderly or suspicious persons;
   (C)   (1)   To inspect or cause to be inspected all trucks and other
equipment of the Volunteer Fire Department each and every week to ascertain
that the equipment is being kept in proper condition; and
      (2)   He or she shall report annually to the Board the condition of all
equipment, and the inventory of same.
   (D)   To inspect or cause to be inspected all fire hydrants and fire alarm
systems at least once every three months and shall make a report of the
inspection to the Board;
   (E)   (1)   (a)   The Chief is to assume the functions of Fire Inspector.
         (b)   As the Fire Inspector, he or she (or his or her designated
agent) shall have authority to enter any and all premises, at a reasonable
time, for the purposes of inspection.
      (2)   He or she shall make annual inspections of all structures located
within the fire district.
      (3)   He or she shall, upon receipt of a complaint, forthwith
investigate.
      (4)   He or she shall investigate the causes of fires and shall keep
records of his or her findings as to origin, location, owner, extent of damage,
injury, and amount of insurance carried.
      (5)   The findings must be reported to the North Carolina Insurance
Commissioner at regular intervals.
      (6)   (a)   He or she shall cause the removal of fire hazards by serving
proper order to owner or agent of premises in question, the order to state a
reasonable time limit.
         (b)   Failure to comply with the order shall be considered a
misdemeanor.
   (F)   He or she shall assign specific duties to each member in the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-2002)
§ 34.03  GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The officer in command shall have authority to summon aid and no
citizen so summoned may refuse to help in extinguishing the fire or in
protecting exposed property.
   (B)   During the continuance of a fire, the Fire Chief, his or her
assistant, or the Manager shall have authority to call upon any citizen to
render assistance in pulling down or demolishing any building or in removing
goods or furniture from a building on fire or in danger of fire, but not
without consent of the offices of the Volunteer Fire Department or the Police
Department who may be in charge.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to congregate on the streets or alleys near a
fire in a manner which would interfere with the activities of the Volunteer
Fire Department.
   (D)   In the event of an alarm of fire the apparatus of the Volunteer Fire
Department, responding to it, shall have the right-of-way in and upon all
streets, lanes, alleys, and other public ways.
(Prior Code, § 3-2003) 
Penalty, see § 34.99
§ 34.04  INTERFERING WITH FIRE FIGHTERS OR FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere with a fire fighter in the discharge of his or her
duty, or hinder him or her in the performance of the duty; nor shall any person
other than members of the Volunteer Fire Department loiter about any fire
station, or change, handle, or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or any
other fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 3-2004) 
Penalty, see § 34.99
§ 34.05  PERMISSION TO RIDE ON FIRE TRUCKS.
   No person other than a bona fide member of the Volunteer Fire Department
shall mount any fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the station or
while on its way to or from a fire, or at any other time, unless by permission
of the driver or officer in command of the engine, wagon or other apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 3-2005)
Penalty, see § 34.99
§ 34.06  INTERFERING WITH FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with the fire alarm system
or injure the poles, wires, boxes, or other apparatus connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 3-2006)
Penalty, see § 34.99
§ 34.07  SIGNS.
   Do Not Enter signs will be placed to block off fire lanes.
(Prior Code, § 3-2007)
§ 34.08  REGULATIONS REGARDING FIRE TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation, while the
truck and fire fighters of the town are engaged in attending or fighting a
fire, to park a vehicle within 200 feet on the street nearest to the point
where the fire truck is then standing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to block or
cause to block in person or with vehicle, or to park any vehicle within 50 feet
of any fire hydrant or water main on either block adjacent to any building
which the fire fighters may be called or attending at the time.
(Prior Code, § 3-2008) 
Penalty, see § 34.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to organize and regulate a fire department, see
G.S. §§ 160A-291 et seq.
   Interfering with fire fighters and running over fire hoses, see G.S. § 20-
157
§ 34.09  USE OF FIRE TRUCKS.
   The town fire truck shall at no time leave the corporate limits of the town,
except in cases of extreme emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-2009)
§ 34.10  DESCRIPTION OF FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits for the Town Volunteer Fire Department shall be within four
miles of the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of and restrictions within fire limits, see G.S.§§ 160A-435
and 160A-436
§ 34.11  REGULATIONS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   No construction or alterations of any kind or description shall be made in
the above set out fire district without a building permit, and full compliance
with ordinances governing construction in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2022) 
Penalty, see § 34.99
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Ch. 150
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
34.08 shall be a misdemeanor, and punishable by a fine of $50, or imprisonment
in the common jail of the town for a period of 30 days or both.
(Prior Code, § 3-2008)
CHAPTER 35:  FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
35.01   Disbursement of funds
   
35.02   Purchasing
§ 35.01  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   No money shall be disbursed from the Town Treasury only if the item
for which the disbursement is made has been provided for in the annual budget
except in the case of extreme emergency.
   (B)   (1)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act, no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been
approved by the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to
which the expense is charged.
      (2)   No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it bears on its
face the certificate of the Town Clerk as follows:
This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act.
   (C)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Town Clerk's certificate as follows:
This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-4001) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Requiring a pre-audit of all disbursements, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 35.02  PURCHASING.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchase made by any town employee, a purchasing order must first be obtained
from the Town Purchasing Agent or Town Clerk.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order from the
Town Purchasing Agent or Town Clerk will be held responsible for the cost of
the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-4002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 36:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
36.01   State of emergency; curfew authorized
   
36.02   Form and content of proclamations
 
   
36.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Proclamation Form
§ 36.01  STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the town
and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part
of the restrictions law enforcement officers, fire fighters and other public
employees, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and the other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health, and welfare needs of the people within the town.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous weapons of any kind, and
prohibit the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine, or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil, or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, or
any other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley, or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food, or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; and/or
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment, and any other places of public assembly.
   (F)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered, or repealed in any
particular manner during the continued or threatened existence of a state of
emergency by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3001) 
Penalty, see § 36.99
§ 36.02  FORM AND CONTENT OF PROCLAMATIONS.
   (A)   The proclamation for the declaration of a state of emergency and the
imposition of specific prohibitions and restrictions shall take substantially
the form set out in the appendix to this chapter.
   (B)   The proclamation should specify any one or more of the restrictions
which are presented as options.
(Prior Code, § 3-3002)
§ 36.99  PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any provision of any
restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this chapter, shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding
$50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-3003)
APPENDIX:  PROCLAMATION FORM
   WHEREAS, The governing body of the Town of Warsaw, has duly adopted an
ordinance authorizing the Mayor to determine and proclaim the existence of a
state of emergency and to impose various restrictions after he determines that
such restrictions are necessary as a response to an emergency.
   NOW THEREFORE, I,   Mayor of the Town of Warsaw proclaim that:
I.
   An emergency exists, and restrictions set forth in this proclamation are
necessary in order to maintain an acceptable level of public order, services,
and protection of lives, safety, and property during this emergency.
II.
   Editorial Note: The proclamation should specify any one or more of the
following restrictions which are presented herein as options.
   I proclaim the following restrictions:
   A.   No person shall be a part of any assembly of three or more persons in
the area bounded by the Corporate limits of the Town of Warsaw.
   B.   Possession, consumption, and transfer of intoxicating liquor.
   1.   No person shall possess or consume any intoxicating liquor, including
beer and wine, other than on his premises.
   2.   No person shall sell or otherwise transfer any intoxicating liquor,
including beer and wine.
   C.   Curfew.
   1.   No person not exempted by this proclamation shall appear in public in
the geographic area described in this proclamation between the hours of
_____P.M. and midnight or between the hours of midnight and _____A.M. of any
day until I remove this curfew by proclamation.
   2.   This curfew shall apply to the area bounded by
________________________,___________________.
   3.   I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety,
and welfare to exempt from these curfew restrictions the following classes of
people in the circumstances indicated:
   (a)   (Those whose appearance is essential in order to obtain or furnish a
service or commodity which is immediately necessary to sustain the health or
well-being of themselves or of someone within curfew area.)
   (b)   (Those whose appearance necessarily occurs in the process of leaving a
place at which they were temporarily engaged and from which they could not
reasonably have planned their departure so as to avoid appearing during the
period during which the curfew was applicable.)
   (c)   _____________________________________________
   (d)   _____________________________________________
   D.   Possession and transfer of dangerous weapons or substances.
   1.   No person shall possess any dangerous weapons or substances unless they
remain in a place of storage on his premises, or, if they cannot be readily
stored on his premises, unless they remain in a customary place of storage not
readily available to the possessor. No person may transport to sell or
otherwise transfer any dangerous weapons or substances.
   2.   I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety,
and welfare to exempt from these restrictions the following classes of people
in the circumstances indicated:
   Police officers may possess any weapon necessary to carry out their duties
when on active duty.
   Anyone may possess gasoline when the gasoline is in the tank of a car in his
possession.
   _________________________ may transfer when _______________________________
   E.   Access to restricted areas.
   1.   I direct the Chief of Police and his subordinates to restrict or deny
access to any area, location, or street where such a restriction is necessary
in order to help overcome this emergency or to prevent the emergency from
worsening. These restrictions on access shall be indicated by means of
barricades, posted notices, or orders to anyone in the area.
   2.   No person shall obtain access or attempt to obtain access to any area,
location, or street to which the Chief of Police and his subordinates have
restricted access according to the directions I have just given to them.
III.
   Anyone violating any restriction imposed by this proclamation or under its
authority violates Town Ordinance and is guilty of a misdemeanor.
IV.
   This proclamation shall take effect immediately.
_____________________
Hour and Date
_____________________
Mayor
SEAL OF THE TOWN
CHAPTER 37:  PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
37.01   Adopted by Reference
§ 37.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policy of the Town of Warsaw is adopted by reference as though
set forth fully herein.
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Prompt removal required
   
50.03   Garbage cans
   
50.04   Wet garbage
   
50.05   Deposit of garbage in public places and on private property
   
50.06   Hour for placing cans
   
50.07   Removal of dead animals
   
50.08   Transportation of garbage and refuse by private citizens
   
50.09   Unlawful to displace containers
   
50.10   Special or bulk collections regulated
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS.  SCRAP BUILDING MATERIAL from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE.  All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE.  All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE.  Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other discarded solid
materials, including SOLID WASTE materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or significant pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS.  Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery trimmings and cuttings and
all other trimmings from the natural growth of trees, shrubbery, weeds, plants
or grass.
(Prior Code, § 4-2001)
§ 50.02  PROMPT REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace to
health, or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any dwelling, house,
hotel, boarding house, café, restaurant, lunch stand, fruit stand, meat market,
store or other building or on any premises a longer time than shall be
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit the same in a can or cans as
hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03  GARBAGE CANS.
   (A)   The occupant of every  building, premise or place where garbage does
or may exist, shall acquire a garbage can from the town, in which he or she
shall deposit all garbage existing at the place occupied by him or her.
   (B)   The can shall be provided with handles or bales and with a tight-
fitting cover made of the same material as the can.
   (C)   All garbage cans shall be watertight.
   (D)   They shall be of a size that can be conveniently handled by the
garbage collector, not to exceed in holding capacity more than 25 gallons.
   (E)   All garbage cans shall be placed in a place that can be conveniently
reached by the garbage collector.
   (F)   All garbage cans shall be kept reasonably clean by the use of lye or
other effective cleaner.
(Prior Code, § 4-2003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04  WET GARBAGE.
   All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and shall be wrapped in
paper, or other combustible material before it is placed in the garbage can,
thus preventing smell and the breeding of flies in summer and freezing and
adhesion to the can in winter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2004) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.05  DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE IN PUBLIC PLACES AND ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any garbage in any street, alley,
public place or private property within the town limits, except in garbage cans
or garbage vehicles as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2005) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.06  HOUR FOR PLACING CANS.
   Garbage cans or similar containers containing garbage and trash for removal
shall be placed on the premises from which the same are to be removed on the
day scheduled for removal.
(Prior Code, § 4-2006) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.07  REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed by the town at any time.
(Prior Code, § 4-2007)
§ 50.08  TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE BY PRIVATE CITIZENS.
   No person or persons shall collect, handle, or transport over or along any
of the streets, alleys or other public ways in the town any garbage or refuse
without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-2008) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.09  UNLAWFUL TO DISPLACE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace, or otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or their contents except the owner or upon
permission or at the request of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-2009) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.10  SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   (1)   No bulk trash, tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings, leaves and other
refuse will be collected except as provided below.
      (2)   Limbs, tree trunks, tree and bush cuttings which are of a size that
can be readily loaded in regulation garbage trucks in amounts not in excess of
one half a truck load for any one residence or place of business will be
collected on a special request basis.
      (3)   In this event no charge will be made for the collection.
   (B)   (1)   Any property owner desiring special bulk collections of loose
matter not in closed containers or tied in bundles may request a special
collection for which a charge will be made.
      (2)   If sufficient manpower and equipment is available, town personnel
are authorized to make special collections, provided the person making the
request agrees to pay for the labor and equipment used at the rate specified by
the Town Board.
   (C)   (1)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than eight feet in length
or other heavy objects be collected by the town.
      (2)   No waste building materials or lot clearings shall be collected
from houses or other structures under construction or recently completed
without charge.
   (D)   Material to be collected by special collections shall be placed in
neat piles and placed next to the street so that the refuse can be easily
loaded on trucks for disposal.
(Prior Code, § 4-2010) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to regulate garbage and refuse collection, see
G.S. § 160A-185
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Board to regulate system
   
51.02   Water Superintendent
   
51.03   Abridgement or modification of rules
Service; Usage Requirements; Connections
   
51.15   Connections; permit required
   
51.16   Use of town water
   
51.17   Tampering with or obstructing lines
   
51.18   Private water supply
   
51.19   Work performed on system; contractors
   
51.20   Application for service
   
51.21   Responsibility and liability
   
51.22   Extensions to mains and services
   
51.23   Installation, inspection and the like; access to premises
   
51.24   Change of occupancy
   
51.25   Overhead water tank
Rates; Billing Procedures
   
51.35   Rates generally
   
51.36   Meter reading, billing and collecting
   
51.37   Suspension of service
   
51.38   Complaints; adjustments
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 52
   Volunteer Fire Department; Related Regulations, see
Ch. 34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  BOARD TO REGULATE SYSTEM.
   The water system of the town shall be under the control of and the duty of
prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all the rules and regulations
governing all connections with the public sewer and water system shall be
vested in the Board or its authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 5-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to operate a solid waste authority, see G. S. § 160A-312
   Public enterprise services, see G.S. §§ 160A-311  et seq.
§ 51.02  WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Town Manager may select some competent person to supervise under their
general control the entire water system of the town.  The Town Manager may from
time to time prescribe the duties and responsibilities of this official.  This
official, or his or her assistant, shall, at all reasonable hours, have free
access to all premises for the purpose of examining hydrants, fixtures or
connections on which town water pressure is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 5-1008)
§ 51.03  ABRIDGEMENT OR MODIFICATION OF RULES.
   (A)   No promise, agreement, or representation of any employee of the town
shall be binding upon the town except as it shall have been agreed upon in
writing, signed, and accepted by the acknowledged officers of the town.
   (B)   No modification of rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be
made by any agent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1020)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
SERVICE; USAGE REQUIREMENTS; CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15  CONNECTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall connect with the water
system of the town until they shall have made application for permission to
connect to the town.
      (2)   This application shall be made before any part of the drainage
system of the house or other connection shall have been laid or constructed and
the application shall be accompanied with a plan or drawing showing the
location of the building and the entire proposed connection from the public
sewerage line through the building to its terminus, showing the location of all
the fixtures, traps, ventilating pipes, and the like, and shall state the name
of the street and name of the person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1002)
   (B)   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall
install a separate water and sewer connection.
(Prior Code, § 5-1003)
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-317, all owners of improved property
within the town limits located within a reasonable distance of any water line
or sewage collection line owned and operated by the town, are hereby required
to connect their premises with the water or sewage collection line.
      (2)   The respective property owners will be responsible for any water or
sewage service line constructed on their property for the purpose of connecting
their premises to the town water or sewage line.
      (3)   The town will connect from its water and sewage lines to the
property line of the improved property owner; provided, however, that no water
or sewage service line will be connected to the town water or sewage lines
until after the town has caused the respective water or sewage service lines,
of the improved property owners, to be inspected and approved.
      (4)   Each property owner making the aforementioned connection will be
charged a fee to be determined for each sewage connection and for each water
connection.
      (5)   After September 1, 1974, an owner of improved property within the
corporate limits, upon notification by the town to comply with the provisions
of this division, shall have 14 days to comply with these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 5-1022) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.16  USE OF TOWN WATER.
   (A)   No consumer will be allowed to supply or sell water to other persons,
families or corporations, nor shall any person take or carry away water from
any hydrant, watering trough, or public fountain without permission of town
officials.
   (B)   The fire hydrants are for the use of the Volunteer Fire Department for
fighting fires, and are not to be used by any unauthorized person for any
purpose, without permission from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1004) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.17  TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING LINES.
   (A)   No person shall touch, tamper with or in any manner manipulate or turn
the cut-offs on the water mains forming a part of the water system of the town,
nor shall any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water
line, main or any appurtenance thereto.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any material or substance in any
water line that will in any manner obstruct the line.
(Prior Code, § 5-1006) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.18  PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to furnish, supply
or provide, for gain or profit, any water from a private well or pumps in or to
any dwelling house other than for private use.
(Prior Code, § 5-1007) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.19  WORK PERFORMED ON SYSTEM; CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   (1)   All work on the water system and all connections or
disconnections thereto shall be performed by the authorized employees of the
town or their representatives, or plumbers approved by the town.
      (2)   All work shall be performed in accordance with the Plumbing Code of
the town and amendments thereto that the Board may from time to time adopt.
(Prior Code, § 5-1009)
   (B)   All builders and contractors shall make arrangements about the water
tapping fees before they are given a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-1010)  (Ord. passed 11-5-1972) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.20  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Service will be supplied to those citizens requesting water service
upon application made at the Town Hall and upon deposit as hereinbefore set
forth.
   (B)   The town may reject any application for service when the applicant is
delinquent in payment of any water or sewer bills incurred for service
previously supplied at any location.
(Prior Code, § 5-1011)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
§ 51.21  RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall run a service line for water from its
distribution line to the property line where the distribution line runs
immediately adjacent and parallel to the property to be served and for which a
tappage fee for each size meter will be charged.
      (2)   The town will install its meter at the property line.
      (3)   When two or more water meters are to be installed on the same
premises for different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and clearly
designated by number to which consumer it applied.
      (4)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer's piping or apparatus, and will not be responsible therefor.
      (5)   The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's
line or piping are installed in a manner as to prevent cross connections or
backflow.
      (6)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind resulting from
water or the use of water on the consumer's premises, unless the damage results
directly from negligence on the part of the town.
      (7)   (a)   The town shall not be responsible for damage done by or
resulting from any defect in the piping, fixtures or appliances on the
consumer's premises.
         (b)   Nor shall the town be responsible for the negligence of third
persons or forces beyond the control of the town resulting in interruption of
service.
      (8)   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
(Prior Code, § 5-1012)
   (B)   (1)   Piping for water on the consumer's premises must be so arranged
that the connections are conveniently located with respect to the town's lines
or mains.  If the consumer's piping on the consumer's premises is so arranged
that the town is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of
metering will be considered as a separate and individual account.
      (2)   The town shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on the
town's side of the meter.
      (3)   The consumer's water piping and apparatus shall be installed and
maintained by the consumer at the consumer's expense in a safe and efficient
manner and in accordance with the town's rules and regulations and in full
compliance with the sanitary regulation of the State Department of Human
Resources, Division of Health Services.
      (4)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the cost of
the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
town; and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer.
      (5)   The amount of the loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be
added to the consumer's bills; and if not paid, service may be discontinued by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1013)
(Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
§ 51.22  EXTENSIONS TO MAINS AND SERVICES.
   The town may construct extensions to its water lines to points within its
service area, upon the terms and conditions as the Board may deem proper.
(Prior Code, § 5-1014)
§ 51.23  INSTALLATION, INSPECTION AND THE LIKE; ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access at all reasonable hours
to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing town
property, inspecting piping, reading or testing meters, or for any other
purpose in connection with the town's services and facilities.
(Prior Code, § 5-1015)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
§ 51.24  CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Any consumer who wishes service to be discontinued, must give notice
at the Town Hall and pay all water bills to date at which time his or her
deposit will be refunded.
   (B)   The consumer shall be responsible for all water consumed as of the
date of his or her departure.
(Prior Code, § 5-1016)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
§ 51.25  OVERHEAD WATER TANK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, individual, firm or corporation to
construct an overhead water tank within the town limits or to excavate, drill
or dig any well except by authority in writing granted by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1021)  (Ord. passed 10-5-1946) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
RATES; BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 51.35  RATES GENERALLY.
   Water rates and water connection charges shall be determined from time to
time by the Board and shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-1005)
§ 51.36  METER READING, BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Meters will be read between the fifteenth and twenty-fifth of each
month, and bills, including water, will be rendered on the first of each month
thereafter, but the town reserves the right to vary the dates or length of
period covered.
   (B)   Bills for water will be figured in accordance with the town's
published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed
for the period covered by the meter reading.
   (C)   Charge for service for water commences when the meter is hooked up.
   (D)   Readings from different meters will not be combined for billing,
irrespective of the fact that the meters may be for the same or different
premises, or for the same or different consumers, or for the same or different
services.
   (E)   Bills are due for water when rendered and become delinquent ten days
thereafter and if not paid by the twentieth of the month, service may be
discontinued by the town and upon payment of any delinquent bill, an additional
cut on charge as set out in the fee schedule.
   (F)   Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent the bills from
becoming delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
(Prior Code, § 5-1017)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to fix and enforce water rates, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 51.37  SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the deposit will be
refunded.
   (B)   (1)   Upon discontinuance of service for non-payment of bills, the
deposit will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account.
      (2)   Any balance will be refunded to the consumer; but if the deposit is
not sufficient to cover the bill, the town may proceed to collect the balance
in the usual way provided by law for the collection of debts.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer's willful disregard of the town's rules;
      (3)   Emergency repair;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town's
control;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; or
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
   (D)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
(Prior Code, § 5-1018)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
§ 51.38  COMPLAINTS; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If the consumer believes his or her bill to be in error, he or
she shall present his or her claim, in person, at the town's office before the
bill becomes delinquent.
      (2)   The claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not
be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as heretofore provided.
      (3)   The consumer may pay the bill under protest and the payment shall
not prejudice his or her claim.
   (B)   The town will make special meter readings at the request of the
consumer at no charge.
   (C)   Meters will be tested at the request of the consumer.
   (D)   If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the town's
representative, or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for
any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his or
her previous bills and/or from other proper data.
(Prior Code, § 5-1019)  (Ord. passed 3-9-1972)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
51.25 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than $50 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-1021)  (Ord. passed 10-5-1946)
   (C)   (1)   Any owners of improved property within the corporate limits
violating the provisions of §
51.15 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to
a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by
G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   Provided, however, that each notification by the town and
subsequent failure of the property owner to comply with the provisions herein,
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-1022)  (Ord. passed 6-11-1973)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
Connections; Usage Requirements
   
52.020   Use of sewers required
   
52.021   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.022   Building sewers and connections
   
52.023   Protection of equipment and/or property
   
52.024   Industrial service; application; authorization
Discharges
   
52.035   Excluded wastes
   
52.036   Pretreatment
   
52.037   Flow and concentration control
   
52.038   Measurement of flow
   
52.039   Control manhole
   
52.040   Determination and character of wastes
Extensions
   
52.050   Determining minimum distances and sizes
   
52.051   Services to customers outside corporate limits
   
52.052   Financing extensions outside corporate limits
   
52.053   Financing extensions within corporate limits
Grease Control
   
52.065   Scope and purpose
   
52.066   Definitions
   
52.067   Food service establishments; general
   
52.068   Construction standards
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.080   Authority for inspection; access to premises
   
52.081   Reviewing authority; hearings
   
52.082   Amendment, modification and the like
   
52.083   Contracts, special agreements and the like
   
52.084   Enforcement; compliance; discontinuance and the like
Rates and Charges; Billing Procedures
   
52.095   User deposits
   
52.096   User charges; establishment and periodic adjustment
   
52.097   Domestic wastewater charges
   
52.098   Industrial wastewater charges
   
52.099   Billing and collecting
   
52.100   Complaints and adjustments
   
52.101   Sewer charges
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
      BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE CONNECTION.  The connecting pipe from a building,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall, to the
municipal sewer system.
      COLOR.  The true color of the light transmitted by the waste solution
after removing the suspended material, including the pseudocolloidal particles.
      DOMESTIC WASTE.  All liquid and waterborne pollutants, exclusive of
unpolluted water as defined herein or wastewater or wastes from processes or
operations in industrial establishments, as defined herein.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  The liquid and waterborne pollutants resulting from
processes or operations employed in industrial establishments, as defined in
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget of the Federal Government, as amended and supplemented, under the
following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agricultural, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewer Services; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      INFILTRATION.  Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes.  INFILTRATION does not
include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW.  The total quantity of water from both INFILTRATION
and INFLOW without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW.  Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from sources such as roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard drains, area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and
swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, or drainage.  INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.
      MANAGER.  The Chief Administrative Officer of the town.  As used herein
it may also include any other town employee delegated to act for the town by
the Manager or by the Town Board.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      NORMAL WASTE. A waste having an average concentration of 250 milligrams
per liter of BOD, or less, and 250 milligrams per liter of suspended solids, or
less, as determined by samples taken before entering the public sanitary
sewers.
      PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, corporation,
governmental agency, board, commission, or municipal corporation other than the
town.
      pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
ions in moles per liter of solution.  Stabilized pH is that determined after a
sample of the waste has been subjected to natural aeration.
      PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any facility for wastewater
treatment and disposal not maintained and operated by the town.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The organic wastes resulting from the
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of foods that have been shredded to a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle being greater than one
half inch in any dimension.
      RECEIVING STREAM.  The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge from a wastewater treatment plant, or the body of water, stream or
watercourse formed by the effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
      REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.  The term operation and maintenance includes
REPLACEMENT.
      SANITARY SEWER.  A public sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility that carries liquid and waterborne wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with minor
quantities of ground and surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
      SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM.  Any part of the public sanitary sewer or
systems, including wastewater pumping stations, that discharge into wastewater
treatment facilities owned and/or operated by the town.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SLUG.  Any discharge of water or wastewater of any duration during which
the rate of flow, or concentration of any constituent increases to a magnitude
as to adversely affect the operation of the sewer system or the ability of the
town's wastewater treatment facilities to meet the water quality objectives.
      STANDARD METHODS.  The analytical procedures set forth in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, or EPA Methods of Chemical
Analysis of Water and Wastes, as published by the Environmental Protection
Agency, Water Quality in April 1971, or subsequent editions.
      STORM SEWER.  A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface
runoff, street wash waters, and drainage.
      STRENGTH OF WASTE.  The concentration, expressed in milligrams per liter
by weight, of a pollutant or substance contained in the liquid waste.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  The total solid matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water or liquid waste, and which is removable
by laboratory filtration.
      TOWN.  The Town of Warsaw, North Carolina.
      TREATMENT WORKS.  Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid industrial
wastes.
      UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER.
         (a)   Any wastewater which is substantially free of pollutants and is
discharged from the following:
            1.   Rain downspouts and drains;
            2.   Footing drains;
            3.   Storm and surface water drains; and/or
            4.   Cooling water system.
         (b)   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER shall contain, by definition, none of the
following:
            1.   BOD in excess of ten milligrams per liter;
            2.   Suspended solids in excess of ten milligrams per liter;
            3.   Free or emulsified greases or oils;
            4.   Acids or alkalies;
            5.   Phenols or other substances imparting taste or odor in
receiving waters;
            6.   Toxic or poisonous substances;
            7.   Noxious or odorous gases; or
            8.   Temperature in excess of 150°F.
         (c)   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER shall also mean any wastewaters judged by
the Department of Environment and Natural Resources of the state to be
admissible to streams and water courses under the jurisdiction of the agency,
and in accordance with the standards of water quality established by the agency
for the particular stream or water course into which the unpolluted wastewater
is to be discharged.
      USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of a treatment works, for the
user's proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the works.
   (B)   In addition, definitions contained in 40 C.F.R. pt., 35, subpt. 401
and 403 are hereby incorporated in this section in case of any conflicts.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
CONNECTIONS; USAGE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020  USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge to any outlet other
than a sanitary sewer, within the boundaries of the town, any domestic or
industrial wastes except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these regulations and state and
federal laws.
   (B)   (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
town and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town,
who has installed suitable toilet and other facilities therein necessary for
the discharge of domestic and industrial wastes, is hereby required at the
owner(s)' expense to connect the facilities directly with the proper public
sewer in accordance with the requirement of the town, provided that the public
sewer abuts the property.
      (2)   Connection shall be required to be completed within 120 days from
the time a public sewer becomes available.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.021  PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provision of
§
52.020(B), the toilet and other facilities necessary for the discharge of
domestic and industrial wastes shall be connected to a private disposal system
complying with the requirements of the appropriate state and/or local
regulatory agency.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the
appropriate regulatory authority and furnish a copy thereof to the Manager.
      (2)   The copy of the permit shall be accompanied by the supplementary
data as deemed necessary by the Manager to maintain an accurate file of the
private wastewater disposal systems to facilitate the planning of future public
sewer service.
   (C)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the North Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources of the state or other like
board or authority.
   (D)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer in compliance with these regulations, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material.
   (E)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain any private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by other state or federal
agencies.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.022  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (C)   (1)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgement of
the Manager.
   (D)   (1)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s).
      (2)   The owner(s) shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, in which
case the front building's sewer may be extended to the rear building's sewer
and the whole considered as one building sewer, but the town does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any single connection aforementioned.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the town, to meet all the
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (H)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer should be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the building drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer at
the user's expense.
   (I)   No person(s) shall make connection to roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
   (J)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
      (2)   All  connections shall be made gastight and watertight and be
verified by proper testing.
      (3)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Manager before installation.
   (K)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Manager when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer.
      (2)   The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of
the Manager or his or her representative.
   (L)   (1)   All excavation for building sewer installations shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (M)   (1)   The town shall charge the applicant a sewer tap fee for which
the town will provide the building sewer from the town right-of-way line to the
sanitary sewer main.
      (2)   The owner(s) shall be responsible for installation of the building
sewer on the owner(s) property to the town's right-of-way including the
connection to the tap provided by the town.
      (3)   Charges for sewer taps are indicated in §
52.101.
      (4)   The connection of the building sewer to the town tap shall be
inspected and approved by the Town Building Inspector prior to the owner
covering the connections.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.023  PROTECTION OF EQUIPMENT AND/OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, deface, tamper with or remove any equipment or materials or properties
of the town.
   (B)   Only persons authorized by the Manager will be allowed to uncover,
adjust, maintain and remove the equipment, materials and property.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.024  INDUSTRIAL SERVICE; APPLICATION; AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   All users discharging industrial wastes or wastes other than normal
waste into the town's sanitary sewerage system shall be required to make
application for service to the town.
   (B)   Users making application for service to the town shall do so in
writing and shall provide the following information in support of the
application:
      (1)   Name, address, and standard industrial classification of user;
      (2)   Average volume of wastewater to be discharged;
      (3)   Sixty-minute peak wastewater flow rates including daily, monthly,
and seasonal variations;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by
chemical analyses by a certified analytical laboratory for all applicable
parameters.
      (6)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all chemicals, materials, and types of materials which are,
or could be, discharged;
      (7)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, and appurtenances by size, location and elevation; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed appropriate by the Manager
or his or her authorized representative.
   (C)   (1)   The Manager shall approve or disapprove all applications in
writing.
      (2)   Reason(s) for disapproval will be provided.
   (D)   (1)   Approvals of application for service shall be valid until
rescinded.
      (2)   The town reserves the right to modify the terms and conditions of
providing sewer service at any time based on demonstrable causes.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
DISCHARGES
§ 52.035  EXCLUDED WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following materials,
waste materials, wastes, gases or liquids into any sewer forming part of the
sanitary sewerage system, except where these may constitute occasional,
intermittent inclusions in the wastewaters discharged from residential
premises:
      (1)   Any waste, liquid or vapor, at a temperature exceeding 40°C (104°F)
or at lower temperatures that will create hazardous conditions within, or cause
deterioration of, the sanitary sewers;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of
petroleum substances, non-biodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater containing oil, fat or grease (exclusive of petroleum
substances) of concentrations greater than 100 milligrams per liter, whether
emulsified or not, or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between 0°F and 65°F at the point of discharge into the
system;
      (4)   (a)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; and
         (b)   Properly shredded garbage shall not exceed one-half inch in any
dimension.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 5.5 or
higher than 10.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of either
causing damage or creating a hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of
the sanitary sewerage system and wastewater treatment facilities or interfering
with proper operation of the town's wastewater treatment facilities;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a color which is not removable by the
existing wastewater treatment plant processes and causes the plant effluent to
exceed color requirements for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any water or waste having a BOD5 in excess of 350 milligrams per
liter unless identified as an industrial waste for billing purposes;
      (8)   Any water or waste having a total suspended solids (TSS)
concentration in excess of 350 milligrams per liter unless identified as an
industrial waste for billing purposes; and/or
      (9)   Any water or waste having an ammonia (NH3) concentration in excess
of 30 milligrams per liter unless identified as an industrial waste for billing
purposes.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following materials,
waste materials, waste gases or liquids into any sewer forming part of the
sanitary sewerage system:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha or other hydrocarbon solvents or
oils, or other flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases including any
waters or wastes which contain, at the point of discharge to the sewer system,
explosive elements so that any single reading on an explosion hazard meter
exceeds 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) or any two successive readings
that exceed 50% of the LEL;
      (2)   Any other solid or viscous substance in quantity or character
capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or interference with proper
operation of wastewater treatment facilities, such as, but not limited to
ashes, cinders, ceramic wastes, paper products, sand, mud, straw, shavings,
thread, glass, rags, metal, feathers, bones, tar, plastics, wood, paunch
manure, insulation materials, fibers of any kind, stock or poultry feeds,
processed grains, viscera or other fleshy particles from processing or packing
plants, lime or similar sludges;
      (3)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or any substance capable of creating
a public nuisance when introduced into the sewerage system; and/or
      (4)   Any unpolluted wastewater, as defined in §
52.001.
   (C)   Unpolluted wastewater may be discharged to the town's storm sewer
system provided that the discharge is in complete accordance with state and
federal laws.
   (D)   No person shall discharge into any sewer forming part of the sanitary
sewerage system, any of the following materials in concentrations exceeding the
stated limits:
      (1)   (a)   Any toxic or poisonous substance; or
         (b)   Any other materials in sufficient quantity to injure or
interfere with the wastewater treatment processes, or to constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, or to cause a violation of the water quality standards or
effluent standards for the stream or watercourse receiving the effluent from
the town sewer system.
      (2)   (a)   Concentrations of heavy metals and other incompatible
pollutants in the discharge of any user of the sanitary sewerage system shall
not exceed values listed below.
         (b)   All values are in milligrams per liter.
Metal/Pollutant Amount
Metal/Pollutant      Amount
Chromium, hexavalent 0.1
Chromium, total      0.5
Copper               0.5
Cyanide, total       0.5
Cyanide, amenable    0.1
Lead                 0.5
Nickel               0.5
Zinc                 0.5
 
      (3)   (a)   In the event of conflicts between values established in this
regulation and values established by applicable state or federal rules,
regulations, laws and the like, the more stringent value shall apply.
         (b)   Effluent limits contained in the NPDES permit and water quality
standards assigned to the receiving stream shall at no time be exceeded or
contravened as a result of discharges to the town's sewer system either within
or without the values established in this section.
      (4)   Any radioactive isotope in concentration greater than that
permitted by the latest effective regulations promulgated under applicable
federal law.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.036  PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is prohibited from discharging any substance as
specified in these regulations, shall have the sole responsibility to devise,
at his or her own expense, the methods for eliminating the problem so as to
make any waste discharge eligible for a permit or for compliance with these
regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Each user shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this regulation and shall achieve compliance with all
federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as
specified by the federal pretreatment regulations.
      (2)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the town shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in good
working order at the user's expense.
      (3)   Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be acceptable
to the town before construction of the facility.
      (4)   The review of the plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this
regulation.
      (5)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the authority prior to the
user's initiation of the changes.
      (6)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the EPA or the state upon request.
   (C)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand separators (traps) shall be required by the
town for the proper handling of liquid waste containing grease, oil and/or sand
and/or other substances in excessive amounts.
      (2)   Gas stations, automotive repair shops, restaurants, and other
similar businesses shall be required to provide grease, oil and/or sand
separators.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.037  FLOW AND CONCENTRATION CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any wastes or wastewaters in a slug, as
defined in §
52.001.
   (B)   (1)   Any person now discharging or proposing to discharge wastes
which may include slugs, as defined in §
52.001 may be required to provide facilities, or adopt procedures, for
regulating, controlling, or equalizing the concentration of any constituent or
the rate of waste discharge.
      (2)   The facilities shall have a capacity of at least 80% of the normal
volume of one 24-hour production period of wastewater and an outlet to the
sewer controlled by a waterworks-type rate controller, or other approved
device.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.038  MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   (1)   For domestic wastewater users on the municipal water and
sewerage systems, the volume of water purchased shall be considered to be the
volume of wastewater discharged.
      (2)   In the event a user is connected to the town sewerage system but is
not connected to the town water system, a mutually acceptable alternate means
for determining volume must be negotiated between the town and the user.
   (B)   The volume or quantity of industrial waste discharged by any person
into the sanitary sewerage system shall be measured by one or more of the
following methods:
      (1)   If the volume of water used by any person in his or her industrial
or process operations is substantially the same as the volume secured from the
municipal waterworks system, then the volume of water purchased shall be
considered to be the volume of waste discharged.
      (2)   If, on the premises of any person discharging industrial waste into
the sanitary sewerage system, a substantial portion of the water secured from
the municipal waterworks system is not used for industrial purposes, or if not
returned to the sanitary sewerage system, the quantity of industrial waste
shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   By a meter (or meters) on the water supply line (or lines) to
the industrial and/or process operations;
         (b)   By a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste lines) from
the industrial and/or process operations; or
         (c)   If meters as required under divisions (2)(a) and (b) above have
not been installed, by an estimate, made by the Manager, of the proportion of
the water purchased which is used for industrial purposes and returned to the
sanitary sewerage system.
      (3)   If any person now discharging or proposing to discharge industrial
wastes into the sanitary sewerage system does not secure his or her entire
water supply requirements from the municipal water works system, the person
shall install and maintain a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste
lines) from his or her industrial and/or process operations, or shall install
the additional meters on the private water supply as required to permit
determination of the total quantity discharged to the sewers from both sources
under procedures comparable to divisions (B)(1) and (2) above.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.039  CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who, on the effective date of these regulations, is
discharging industrial waste into the sanitary sewerage system shall provide
reasonable access, means and facilities for the purpose of permitting the
convenient observations, measurements, and sampling of the industrial waste.
      (2)   If the access, means and facilities are not otherwise available,
the person shall construct and maintain an accessible and safe control manhole
on the waste line or lines for like purposes.
   (B)   After the effective date of these regulations, any person proposing to
discharge industrial wastes in quantities greater than 25,000 gpd, or with
strengths equivalent to 25,000 gpd of domestic wastewater, shall provide a
control manhole in accordance with the requirements of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002) 
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.040  DETERMINATION AND CHARACTER OF WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   The industrial waste and/or other pollutants being discharged by
any person into the sanitary sewerage system shall be subject to periodic
inspection.
      (2)   A determination of character and strength of the wastes may be made
annually, or more often as may be deemed necessary by the Manager or his or her
authorized assistants.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected manually or mechanically over a period of
time and composited in a manner as to be representative of the wastes being
discharged.  The laboratory methods followed in the examination of the wastes
shall be those as set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods as
defined in §
52.001.
   (C)   The determination of the character, strength, or quantity of the
wastes as made by the Manager, or his or her authorized assistants, shall be
binding as a basis for computation of charges, or for actions by the Town
Board.  When requested by the person discharging, the samples may be split to
permit analysis by the discharger, or a qualified independent laboratory, for
the discharger's information.  The person discharging wastes may request
additional sampling and analyses which will be performed, as soon as practical,
with all costs, as determined by the town, being borne by the discharger.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
EXTENSIONS
§ 52.050  DETERMINING MINIMUM DISTANCES AND SIZES.
   All extensions of the sanitary sewer service shall be governed by the
following:
   (A)   The minimum distance for any extension of a sanitary sewer main shall
be determined by the Town Board.  In general, the minimum distance for
extensions shall be made from manhole to manhole.
   (B)   The size of sanitary sewer mains to be installed and the other
required system facilities shall be determined by the Town Board in accordance
with the recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and design,
and in accordance with applicable system plans adopted by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.051  SERVICES TO CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Sewer service may be provided to customers outside of the corporate limits
of the town upon the following conditions:
   (A)   (1)   Developers, subdividers, owners, and others wishing service
shall submit for approval to the town preliminary plans and specifications for
all sewer lines for proposed projects, which plans shall comply with all
requirements made by the town for the installations.
      (2)   The plans must be approved before final plans are prepared.
      (3)   The Town Engineer shall prepare all final plans and specifications.
      (4)   (a)   All installations must comply with the plans and must be
inspected by a town representative during construction and upon completion.
         (b)   Construction of the sewer extension shall be by the town or a
qualified private contractor under contract with the town.
   (B)   (1)   The developers, subdividers, owners and the like will provide
easements in a form as the town may require for lines, manholes, and
appurtenances and for installation and maintenance thereof.
      (2)   The easements shall be furnished prior to any service being
furnished.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of submission of plans for the systems, the owners
shall ask that the property to be served and all improvements thereon be
annexed to the town at the time as the town finds this lawful and practical.
      (2)   The request for annexation will remain open indefinitely, will bind
the heirs, successors, grantees and assigns of the owner, developer, subdivider
and the like, and may be accepted by the town at any time unless the area
involved becomes annexed to some other municipality.
      (3)   The request for annexation may be withdrawn if the town does not
provide sewer services, as requested by the developer, owner, subdivider and
the like, but not if the action is caused by failure to pay for services
rendered or for damages done of the system or systems by the willful or
negligent acts of the developer, subdividers, owner and the like, or their
heirs, successors, grantees, or assigns of the agents, servants, employees,
invitees, or licensees of any of them.
   (D)   This regulation in its entirety shall be in full force and effect with
respect to all users outside the town limits that are connected to the town
sewer system.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.052  FINANCING EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All applications for sewer extensions outside the corporate limits
shall be made as provided in these regulations.
   (B)   (1)   If an application is approved by the Town Board, the owner shall
be required to pay  100% of the total cost of all extensions including the cost
of engineering and resident inspection provided by the town, if applicable;
provided the municipality may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Town
Board in the cost of larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains
required to serve the project.
      (2)   No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation and all sewer lines
connected to the municipal system and located outside the corporate limits
shall become the property of the municipality at the time the facilities are
connected.
   (C)   (1)   Prior to the beginning of any construction of sewer extensions
by the town, the owner shall deposit with the municipality funds in an amount
equal to 100% of the total estimated cost of the extensions.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the funds, a written contract shall be entered into
by and between the municipality and the property owner in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   The contract shall provide that in the event the funds deposited
exceed the amount of the total extension cost when completed, that portion in
excess of the total cost will be refunded to the owner without interest.
      (4)   The contract shall also provide that if the amount deposited is
less than the total cost when completed, the owner shall pay the additional
amount to the municipality upon demand.
   (D)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner may execute a surety bond or
similar document guaranteeing payment for the extension.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.053  FINANCING EXTENSIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   When application is received requesting the extension of
sanitary sewer service to serve property within the corporate limits which is
developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision or where streets
have previously been dedicated and accepted by the municipality and where the
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the
municipality, the developer or other person designated by the Town Board shall
estimate the cost of the project and present the application for the extension,
the estimated cost and other required information to the Town Board of
approval.
      (2)   If the application is approved by the Town Board and subject to the
availability of funds, the municipality will install or have installed by
contract under its supervision, the extension which has been approved, and the
extension shall be financed in accordance with division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   When the approved sanitary sewer extension project has been
completed and the total cost thereof has been determined, a percentage of the
total cost of the sanitary sewer extension may be accessed against the property
owners whose property abuts upon the extension at an equal rate per front foot
in accordance with and under the authority granted to the municipality by G.S.
§§ 160A-216 through 160A-238.
      (2)   The remaining percentage of the total cost of the extension shall
be borne by the municipality from funds appropriated for this purpose.
      (3)   The costs of pumping stations and system facilities installed for
general public use shall be paid for by the town and shall not be included in
the cost shared by property owners.
      (4)   Any property owner shall have the opportunity to pay his or her
proportionate share of the cost of the extension after the assessment roll is
confirmed rather than paying his or her share in equal annual installments with
interest as required by the statute.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of §
52.051 shall be applicable to extensions to and in all proposed subdivisions in
the town limits.
      (2)   The developer shall be responsible for 100% of the sewer extension
costs, including engineering and resident inspection services provided by the
town, if applicable.
   (D)   When the municipality determines that it is advisable to install
larger size facilities than are necessary to serve the property requesting the
extension, the difference in the cost of the larger size facilities over and
above the cost of the facilities required to serve the property requesting the
extension may be paid for by the municipality and excluded from the total cost
to the property owner.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the Town Board from extending
sanitary sewer mains on its own motion without receipt of an application from
property owners, and assessing the cost of the extensions in accordance with
divisions (A) and (B) of this section, when, in the opinion of the Town Board,
the general public interest demands the extension of service.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
GREASE CONTROL
§ 52.065  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The scope and the purpose of this subchapter is to aid in the prevention of
sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulation
of fats, oils, and greases into the sewer system from industrial or commercial
establishments, particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2001)
§ 52.066  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES.  Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.  These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. 136, as may be amended from time to time.  All are
sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
      (1)   Those establishments engaged in activities of preparing, serving,
or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs and that use one or
more of the following preparation activities: cooking by frying (all methods),
baking (all methods), grilling, sautéing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all
methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or poaching.
      (2)   Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   GREASE TRAPOR INTERCEPTOR.
      (1)   A device for separating and retaining waterborne greases and grease
complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system.
      (2)   These devices also serve to collect settlable solids, generated by
and from food preparation activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system.
      (3)   GREASE TRAPSANDINTERCEPTORS are sometimes referred to herein as
GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   The inhibition or disruption of the wastewater treatment processes
or operations, or acts or discharges which may cause damage to any portion of
the sewerage system or which contribute to a violation of any requirement of a
POTW's NPDES permit.
      (2)   The term includes INTERFERENCE WITH SEWAGE SLUDGE USE OR DISPOSAL
in accordance with state or federal criteria, guidelines or regulations or any
state or federal sludge management plan applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the sewerage system.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2001)
§ 52.067  FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS; GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   All food service establishments shall have grease-handling
facilities approved by the Town  Superintendent of Public Works or his or her
designee.
      (2)   Establishments whose grease-handling facilities or methods are not
adequately maintained to prevent floatable oils, fat or grease from entering
the sewerage system shall be notified in writing of any noncompliance and
required to provide a schedule whereby corrections will be accomplished.
   (B)   (1)   All food service establishments' grease-handling facilities
shall be subject to review, evaluation, and inspection by the Superintendent or
his or her designee during normal working hours.
      (2)   Results of inspections will be made available to the facility
owner, lease-holder or operator.
      (3)   The Superintendent or his or her designee may lend assistance and
make recommendations for correction and improvement.
   (C)   Food service establishments receiving unsatisfactory evaluations or
inspections, may be subject to penalties or other corrective actions as
provided for in §§
52.084 and
52.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Food service establishments whose operations cause or allow
excessive grease to discharge or accumulate in the town collection system may
be liable to the town for costs related to town service calls for line
blockages, line cleanings, line and pump repairs, and the like, including all
labor, materials, and equipment.
      (2)   Failure to pay all service-related charges may also be grounds for
sewer service discontinuance.
   (E)   (1)   Regularly scheduled maintenance of grease-handling facilities is
required to insure adequate operation.
      (2)   In the maintaining of these grease interceptors, the owner, lease-
holder or operator shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal of
grease by appropriate means and shall maintain on-site records of dates and
means of disposal.  A report of grease removals and disposals shall be
submitted to the town each quarter of a calendar year and those records shall
be maintained for a period of three years.
   (F)   (1)   Any food service establishment whose effluent discharge to the
sewerage system is determined by the Superintendent to cause interference in
the conveyance or operation of the sewerage system may be required to sample
its grease trap discharge and have it analyzed for oil and grease at the
expense of the owner, lease-holder or operator.
      (2)   Results of the analyses shall be reported to the town.
   (G)   All grease traps/interceptors shall be designed and installed to allow
for the complete access for inspection and maintenance of the inner chamber(s)
and viewing and sampling of effluent wastewater discharged to the sewer.
   (H)   (1)   Food service establishments shall adopt procedures for handling
sources of floatable oils, fat or grease originating within their facility.
      (2)   A notice shall be permanently posted at a prominent place in the
facility advising employees of the procedures to be followed.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2001)
§ 52.068  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   New facilities.
      (1)   (a)   All new food service establishments shall be required to
install a grease interceptor, approved by the Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Grease interceptors shall be adequately sized, with no
interceptor less than 1,000 gallons total capacity unless otherwise approved by
the Superintendent.
      (2)   No new food service establishments will be allowed to initiate
operations until grease-handling facilities are installed and approved by the
Superintendent.
      (3)   All grease interceptors, whether singular or two tanks in series,
must have each chamber directly accessible from the surface to provide means of
servicing and maintaining the interceptor in working and operating condition.
      (4)   A basket, screen or other intercepting device shall prevent passage
into the drainage system of solids one half inch or larger in size.  The basket
or device shall be removable for cleaning purposes.
      (5)   (a)   Where food-waste grinders are installed, the waste from those
units shall discharge directly into the building drainage system without
passing through a grease interceptor.
         (b)   All other fixtures and drains receiving kitchen or food
preparation wastewaters shall pass through a grease interceptor.
   (B)   Existing facilities.
      (1)   (a)   All existing food service establishments shall have grease-
handling facilities, approved by the Superintendent.
         (b)   Food service establishments without any grease-handling
facilities will be given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months from
date of notification to have approved and installed greasehandling equipment in
compliance with this standard.
      (2)   In the event an existing food service establishment's grease-
handling facilities are either under-designed or substandard in accordance with
this policy, the owner(s) will be notified in writing of the deficiencies and
required improvements, and given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months
to conform with the requirements of this grease standard.
      (3)   For cases in which outdoor type grease interceptors are infeasible
to install, existing food service establishments will be required to install
adequate and approved under-the-counter grease traps for use on individual
fixtures including dishwashers, sinks and other potentially grease-containing
drains.
      (4)   (a)   Sizing of under-the-counter grease trap units will be in
accordance with recommended ratings for commercial grease traps, attached to
this standard.
         (b)   The grease retention capacity rating in pounds shall be at least
two times the gpm flow rate of the type fixture which it serves.
         (c)   Flow control fittings must be provided to the inlet side of all
under-the-counter units to prevent overloading of the grease trap and to allow
for proper operation.
      (5)   The location of under-the-counter units must be near the source of
the wastewater as physically possible.
      (6)   Wastewater from garbage grinders should not be discharged to grease
traps/interceptors.
      (7)   In maintaining grease traps/interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent.
      (8)   The use of enzymes, grease solvents, emulsifiers and the like is
not considered acceptable grease trap maintenance practice.
   (C)   New food service establishments in existing buildings.
      (1)   Where practical, new food service establishments locating in
existing buildings will be required to comply with the grease trap standards
applicable to new facilities.
      (2)   Where physically impossible to install outdoor units, under-the-
counter units may be allowed as with existing food service establishments
provided prior approval of unit type, size, location, and the like is approved
by the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2001)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.080  AUTHORITY FOR INSPECTION; ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The Manager and other duly authorized employees of the town, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, flow measurement,
sampling, and testing of industrial waste and other pollutants, in accordance
with these regulations.
   (B)   (1)   The Manager and other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
      (2)   The industry may withhold information if the industry can establish
that the revelation of the public of the information in question might result
in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred in
division (A) above, the Manager and duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.039(A).
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.081  REVIEWING AUTHORITY; HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Town Board shall be the reviewing authority for all appeals of
actions or administrative determinations under the provisions of these
regulations.  Notice of an intent to appeal a request for a hearing shall be
addressed to the Town Clerk in writing and shall detail the nature of the
appeal.
   (B)   An early date for the hearing shall be set by the Town Board and the
appellant promptly notified in writing.
   (C)   The decision of the Town Board after the hearing shall be final and
conclusive and shall be conveyed to the persons involved in writing.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.082  AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND THE LIKE.
   The Town Board expressly reserves the absolute right to amend, modify,
rescind, or supplement these regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.083  CONTRACTS, SPECIAL AGREEMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed as
preventing the execution of a contract, special agreement, or arrangement
between the town and any person whereby water or wastewaters of unusual
strength, character, or quantity may be admitted into the sanitary sewerage
system upon the terms and conditions as the Town Board deems appropriate.
   (B)   All like agreements shall be in complete accord with all applicable
local, state, and federal requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.084  ENFORCEMENT; COMPLIANCE; DISCONTINUANCE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The provisions of this regulation shall apply to all users of the
municipal sanitary sewerage system irregardless of location within or outside
of the town limits.
   (B)   (1)   The Manager shall endeavor to assure compliance with the
requirements of these regulations by conference and persuasion.
      (2)   If the efforts, over a reasonable period of time, are futile the
Manager shall take formal actions provided hereafter.
   (C)   In any case involving a person who is discharging waste into the
sanitary sewerage system and where the Manager finds that the person has failed
to comply with any of these regulations, the procedure for enforcement shall be
as follows:
      (1)   The Manager shall give notice to the person by registered mail
stating the specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that the
person remedy the failure within 72 hours.
      (2)   The Manager may thereupon, without further notice, cause the water
service from the public water system to be discontinued for the person or cause
the connection to the sanitary sewer system to be severed for the person.
      (3)   In any case where water service is discontinued or the sewer
connection is severed by the town for enforcement purposes, the restoration of
the  service shall be conditioned on full compliance by the person and payment
of any expense incurred in the enforcement proceeding and in the restoration of
service.
      (4)   The town may, in its discretion, continue or restore water or sewer
service in a case of failure of compliance on condition that the person furnish
a bond or other security, with terms as specified by the town, to hold harmless
the town from any loss or expense that it may incur as a result of the
noncompliance or any further noncompliance.
   (D)   (1)   In any case involving a person who fails to comply with any of
these regulations but who is not discharging waste into the sanitary sewerage
system, the Manager shall give notice to the person by registered mail stating
the specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that the person
promptly remedy the failure.
      (2)   At the same time, the Manager shall report the facts of the case in
writing to the Town Board and to the other government agency as may have
jurisdiction and power to take appropriate enforcement action.
   (E)   In any case involving the use of the town sewerage system, the town
shall have the right to collect the costs of treatment for the wastewater
discharged by the user to the town sewerage system.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   User's failure to pay user's bills as provided for in this
regulation;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Legal processes;
      (5)   Direction of higher public authorities; and/or
      (6)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 52.095  USER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   A deposit for sewer service shall not be required provided the
user is also a user of the town water system.
      (2)   In the event a sewer user is not also a town water user, a deposit
will be required in accordance with the remaining provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   All applicants shall make a cash deposit to secure payments for
sewer service not to exceed the amount of an estimated two-months' bill.
      (2)   The deposit shall be in accordance with the class and scope of the
service and shall not draw any interest.
      (3)   Residential and commercial shops with five-eighths-inch water
meters shall provide a minimum deposit of $80 or as it may be amended from time
to time.
      (4)   Services with water meters larger than five-eighths inch shall
provide a minimum deposit of $80, as it may be amended from time to time, or
two times the estimated normal consumption based on previous users or on other
similar businesses.
   (C)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the services furnished.
   (D)   The deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed only at the
Water Deposit Office.
   (E)   Where the town finds that the request for a deposit refund is
questionable, the town may require the applicant for refund to produce the
deposit receipt properly endorsed.
   (F)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the remaining
portion of the deposit will be refunded.
   (G)   (1)   Upon discontinuance of service for non-payment of bills, the
deposit will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account.
      (2)   Any balance will be refunded to the user; however, if the deposit
is not sufficient to cover the bill, the town may proceed to collect the
balance in the usual way provided by law for the collection of debts.
      (3)   Services will be restored only by payment of the balance, if any,
or the outstanding bills, and a new deposit being made in the amount of the
customer deposit required above.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.096  USER CHARGES; ESTABLISHMENT AND PERIODIC ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Board shall review not less often than once per year
the sewage contributions of users, the total costs of operation and maintenance
(including replacement) of the sewerage facilities, and the user charge system.
      (2)   The Town Board shall revise the user charges, if necessary, to
accomplish the following:
         (a)   1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classifications; and
            2.   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) costs.
         (b)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the sewerage facilities; and/or
         (c)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the
costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year
and adjust the rate accordingly.
   (B)   First year costs associated with this regulation were developed based
on historical and projected costs.  All future charges will be based on actual
costs.
   (C)   Each user discharging any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the treatment works shall
pay for 100% of the increased costs.
   (D)   All flow to the sewerage facilities not directly attributable to the
users (such as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among all users and
user classes of the sewerage facilities in the same manner as operations and
maintenance costs are distributed.
   (E)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charge which is
attributable to operation and maintenance of the sewerage facilities.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.097  DOMESTIC WASTEWATER CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The domestic wastewater charge shall be applicable to all sewer
system users except industrial users as defined in §
52.098(B).
      (2)   Industries with discharges from sanitary convenience only are
considered domestic customers.
   (B)   The domestic wastewater charge is hereby established at a flat rate
per 1,000 gallons as shown in §
52.101, effective on the first regular meter reading date for each user after
final approval of this regulation by the Town Board.
   (C)   The wastewater charges shall be based on the following formula:
Charges/1,000 gallons =Total Cost of O & M
           Total volume of flow
           (in thousands of gallons)
   (D)   (1)   There shall be a minimum charge per month as shown in §
52.101.
      (2)   A minimum bill is required even in the event of non-use, as is
typical for resort areas.
      (3)   There shall be no discounts for increased quantity.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.098  INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER CHARGES.
   (A)   Industrial wastewater charges or surcharges shall be applied to
industrial users.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Any nongovernmental non-residential user of the town sewerage
system that discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd)
of sanitary wastewater and is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
            2.   Division B - Mining;
            3.   Division D - Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas,
and Sanitary Services; and
            5.   Division I - Services.
         (b)   1.   In determining the amount of a user's discharge for
purposes of classification, domestic wastewater discharges from sanitary
conveniences shall be excluded.
            2.   After applying the sanitary waste exclusion, discharges in the
above divisions that have a volume exceeding 25,000 gpd or the weight of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or suspended solids (SS) equivalent to that
weight found in 25,000 gpd of sanitary wastes are considered industrial users.
Sanitary wastes, for the purposes of this calculation of equivalency, are the
wastes discharged from residential users.
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER shall also mean any other industrial, commercial
or institutional user of the sanitary sewerage system that discharges
wastewater to the treatment works which contain toxic pollutants, poisonous
solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, or contaminate the sludge at the treatment
works, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or which
constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
         (d)   INDUSTRIAL USER shall also mean any person discharging
wastewater with concentrations in excess of 350 milligrams per liter  for BOD
or suspended solids or 30 milligrams per liter for ammonia nitrogen.
   (C)   (1)   The industrial wastewater charges shall be established not less
than one time per year and at the same time domestic user charges are
established.
      (2)   Industrial wastewater charges shall be based on the actual costs
for providing sewer services during the preceding fiscal year.
      (3)   The charges so computed along with projected increases in costs
shall be the basis for estimating the increases in costs and shall be the basis
for estimating the monthly billings to each customer for the following fiscal
year.
      (4)   The charges collected shall be adjusted to actual costs at the end
of each fiscal year and appropriate credits given against billings in the
ensuing year, or additional billings made to each customer, using the actual
wastewater quantities and characteristics discharged by that customer during
the preceding fiscal year as the basis for computing the adjusted charges.
      (5)   The actual costs shall be determined as soon after the end of each
fiscal year as possible and until the time the charges for the current year
shall be based on either the rates for the prior year or on estimated rates for
the current year.
   (D)   The costs included in the computation of actual charges for the
preceding fiscal year, or of estimated charges for an ensuing fiscal year,
shall include the following:
      (1)   Operation and maintenance expenses; and/or
      (2)   Interest and principal on outstanding sewer bond issues.
   (E)   Industrial wastewater surcharges, in addition to the normal charges
calculated in accordance with §
52.097(C), will be established for each of the following parameters:
      (1)   BOD, per pound;
      (2)   Suspended solids, per pound; and/or
      (3)   Other parameters as applicable, per pound.
   (F)   The surcharges will be calculated by the following formula:
Surcharge =   [O & M cost/unit of BOD + O & M cost/unit of Suspended Solids + O
& M cost/unit of any pollutant] volume contribution of user/time
   (G)   (1)   Industrial wastewater charges shall become effective on the
first regular meter reading date for each user after the user is connected to
the town system, and after written notice from the town of classification as an
industrial user.
      (2)   Interim monthly charges based on domestic user charges shall be
invoiced and collected during the period equitable industrial rates are being
developed.
      (3)   At the time of adoption of these regulations there were no
industrial dischargers on the town sewerage system.
   (H)   (1)   The Town Board may establish classes of industrial users and
assign representative strengths of wastewater to each.  The class wastewater
characteristics may recognize analyses of representative users of each class
based on typical data from other sources.
      (2)   To the extent practical, actual data for each industrial user's
wastewater shall be used.
      (3)   Industrial users assigned standard strength parameters may request
sample analyses of wastewater.
      (4)   Upon determination of the characteristics on samples representative
of the wastewater on not less than three working days, the characteristics
shall be used in determining the charges until the wastewater may again be
sampled.
   (I)   The Town Board may consolidate the component charges of the industrial
wastewater charges into a single volume charge which includes the
characteristic charges computed for a unit volume of 1,000 gallons.  A weighted
volume charge may be applicable to a class of users or to each user where his
or her actual wastewater characteristics are known.
   (J)   (1)   Industrial users exhibiting marked, seasonal load variations
shall pay charges which recognize the dedication or reservation of capacity for
the treatment of their seasonal peak operating loads, and any unusual operation
and maintenance costs directly related to seasonal loads.
      (2)   This provision shall apply only to those industrial users whose
peak loads exceed 10% of any capacity parameter and are at least twice its off
season loads.
   (K)   The user charge system herein enacted shall take precedence over any
preexisting agreements concerning the charges to be collected for providing
wastewater treatment services or reserving capacity.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.099  BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Sewer user bills shall be rendered monthly and shall be due and
payable within ten days of the date of billing.  The service may be
discontinued without further notice for non-payment.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to vary the dates or length of period
covered, temporarily or permanently if necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for sewer service will be calculated in accordance with the
town's published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount
consumed for the period covered by meter readings.
   (C)   (1)   Charges for services commence when the sewer tap is installed
and connection made, whether used or not.
      (2)   Sixty days may be allowed for hookup on initial installation of a
sewer line.
   (D)   Failure to receive bills shall not prevent the bills from becoming
delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
   (E)   Sewer connections that have been plugged or severed due to delinquent
accounts shall be unplugged or reconnected to the sewer system upon the payment
of all outstanding sewer user bills and payment of a reconnection fee of $50.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.100  COMPLAINTS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If a user believes a bill to be in error, the user shall present
a claim, in person or in writing, at the Water Department's office before the
bill becomes delinquent.
      (2)   The claims, if made after the bill has become delinquent shall not
be effective to prevent discontinuance of service as heretofore provided.
      (3)   The user may pay the bill under protest and payment under protest
shall not prejudice his or her claim.
   (B)   A user's sewer bill shall be adjusted automatically in the event of a
similar adjustment of a water bill, provided the basis for adjustment was based
on circumstances which also affected the sewer bill.
   (C)   The Town Board shall be the final reviewing authority for all appeals.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.101  SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater charges.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum charge of $12 per month for users with
sewer discharges between zero and 2,000 gallons per month.
      (2)   For all discharges in excess of 2,000 gallons per month, there
shall be a flat rate charge of $3.50 per 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   There shall be no discounts for increased quantity.
   (B)   Tap fees.
      (1)   In-town four-inch services shall be $500.
      (2)   All in-town services greater than four inches in size shall be at
cost.
      (3)   Out-of-town rates shall be $10 per month higher than in-town rates.
   (C)   Non-metered users.  Usage for non-metered accounts (for the customer's
convenience) shall be estimated by the town at double average consumption.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §§
52.001,
52.020 through
52.024,
52.035 through
52.040,
52.050 through
52.053, and
52.080 through
52.084  shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not in excess of
$1,000 per day per violation or imprisonment not in excess of 30 days or both
within the discretion of the court.
      (2)   In addition, or in lieu of, or together with any criminal
penalties, the town shall be entitled to injunctive relief together with any
damages caused by a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES
         
74.   PEDESTRIANS
         
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Registration required; period; fee; exceptions
   
70.03   Plates; issuance; duplicates; display
   
70.04   Registrars designated
Enforcement; Obedience to Traffic Code
   
70.15   Authority of Police Department and Volunteer Fire Department officials
   
70.16   Obedience to Police Department and Volunteer Fire Department officials
   
70.17   Public employees to obey regulations
   
70.18   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.19   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Authority to install
   
70.31   Specifications
   
70.32   Obedience
   
70.33   When required for enforcement purposes
   
70.34   Signal legend
   
70.35   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.36   Flashing signals
   
70.37   Interference prohibited
   
70.38   Traffic lanes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Law Enforcement, see
Ch. 33
   Volunteer Fire Department; Related Regulations, see
Ch. 34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Volunteer Fire Department,
police vehicles, and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments
or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE.  Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK.  A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.  Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.  Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from  the same, except at points only in a
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.  That portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections.  Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER.  Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   (a)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
         (b)   In the event the intersecting highway also includes two roadways
30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of the highways
shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY.  A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   MOTORCYCLE.  Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or Daylight Savings Time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS.  Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the Town
Board by any designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the Town Board, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or guiding
traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   PARK.  The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.  A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every peace officer of the town, including every employee
of the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests
for any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE.  Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.  In
the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as
used herein shall refer to any  roadways separately but not to all roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE.  The area or space officially set apart within any roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which space shall be so protected or
marked or indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as shall be
visible at all times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE for pedestrians.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING.  Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP.  When required, means the complete cessation of movement of any
vehicle.
   STOP or STOPPING.  When prohibited, means any STOPPING of any vehicle,
except when the STOPPING means that it shall be necessary to STOP the vehicle
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of any
peace officer of the town or by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal or
by reason of any emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY.  The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY.  Every street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the town.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION.  The TRAFFIC DIVISION of the Police Department of the
town, or in the event a TRAFFIC DIVISION is not established, then the term
whenever used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department of the
town.
   VEHICLE.  Every device used in, upon, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon any street within the corporate limits, and
for the purposes of this chapter any bicycle shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 7-1001)
§ 70.02  REGISTRATION REQUIRED; PERIOD; FEE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every resident motor vehicle operated within the corporate limits of
the town during any one calendar year, shall be registered with the  Town
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1011)
   (B)   (1)   The period of registration shall include the 12-month period
from January 1 to December 31.
      (2)   The fee for the registration shall be $3.
(Prior Code, § 7-1012)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply:
      (1)   To any motor vehicle temporarily operated within the town for a
period of time not exceeding 30 days during any one calendar year;
      (2)   To any motor vehicle operated for display or exhibition purposes by
any motor vehicle dealer or salespersons; nor
      (3)   To any motor vehicle owned by any member of the Volunteer Fire
Department, who displays a fire fighter's plate.
(Prior Code, § 7-1013)
(Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
§ 70.03  PLATES; ISSUANCE; DUPLICATES; DISPLAY.
   (A)   For every motor vehicle registered, the  Town Clerk shall issue to the
owner of the vehicle an appropriate numbered plate. Upon satisfactory evidence
that the plate has been lost or destroyed, the Town Clerk may issue a
duplicate.
(Prior Code, § 7-1014)
   (B)   Every motor vehicle for which the registration is required, shall
display on the front or rear of the vehicle the numbered plate issued
therefore, and the plate shall be displayed throughout the current year for
which it is issued, in a manner as to be visible.
(Prior Code, § 7-1015)
   (C)   Any person who operates a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of
the town after February 15, 1975, without having a municipal license plate or
town tag displayed and properly secured or attached to the front or rear of the
vehicle, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-1016)
(Ord. passed 4-8-1974) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04  REGISTRARS DESIGNATED.
   In order to facilitate the registration of motor vehicles under the
provisions of this title, the town hereby authorizes the Town Clerk or other
assistant clerks as registrars of motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-1018)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Town license tags authorized, see G.S. §§ 20-97 and 160A-211
ENFORCEMENT; OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.15  AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT AND VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or the
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or the officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Volunteer Fire Department, when at the scene of a
fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 7-1021)
§ 70.16  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE DEPARTMENT AND VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Volunteer Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 7-1022) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.17  PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, this state,
county, or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter by
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 7-1024) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only:
      (1)   When the driver of any vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary; and
      (2)   When the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
displaying a light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 7-1025)
§ 70.19  USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play
street as authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1023) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30  AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The town shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals, and
devices when and as required under this subchapter to make effective the
provisions of the subchapter, and may place and maintain additional traffic-
control devices to regulate traffic under the subchapter or under state law, or
to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1031)
§ 70.31  SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to state
regulations.
   (B)   All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this subchapter shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(Prior Code, § 7-1032)
§ 70.32  OBEDIENCE.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this
subchapter unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1033) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.33  WHEN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   (A)   No provisions of this subchapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required,
the section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 7-1034)
§ 70.34  SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the words
go, caution, or stop, or exhibiting different colored lights successively one
at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and the
terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians
as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or go.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight
through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn.
         (b)   But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or caution when shown following the green or go signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or stop signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or stop
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or go is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian walk
signal.
   (C)   Red alone or stop.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or go is
shown alone.
         (b)   Provided, however, that if a sign is not erected prohibiting
turns on red lights, then vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to
a complete stop.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing a signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or go is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian walk
signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or go is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian walk
signal.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application.  Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any like sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 7-1035) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.35  PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words walk or
don't walk are in place the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Walk.  Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Don't walk.  No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or
her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the don't walk signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1036) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.36  FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal).  When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject, to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal).  When a yellow lens is
illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.  Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
the rules as set forth in §
71.52.
(Prior Code, § 7-1037)
§ 70.37  INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1038) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.38  TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparing to make a
lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 7-1039)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, upon conviction of violating the provisions of this title, shall
be subject to a fine not exceeding $50 and imprisonment not exceeding 30 days
as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 7-1017)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Speed Limits
   
71.01   Generally
Turning Movements
   
71.15   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.16   Turning markers
   
71.17   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
71.18   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
71.19   Limitations on turning around
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.30   Authority to sign
   
71.31   Prohibition
Special Stops
   
71.45   Designation of through streets
   
71.46   Authority to erect stop signs
   
71.47   Intersections where stop required
   
71.48   Signs to bear the word stop
   
71.49   Vehicles to stop at signs
   
71.50   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
71.51   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.52   Obedience to railroad train approach signal
Trucks
   
71.65   Operation restricted
   
71.66   Signs required
   
71.67   Disposition of trucks found in violation
Prohibited Operations
   
71.80   Driving through funeral or other processions
   
71.81   Driving on sidewalk
   
71.82   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.83   Controlled access
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.01  GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall be unlawful to operate
a vehicle in excess of 35 miles per hour inside the municipal corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-1051) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.15  REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Right turns.  Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to:
      (1)   The right-hand curb; or
      (2)   The edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways.
      (1)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered.
      (2)   Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion of
the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways.  At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection shall approach
the intersection to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 7-1061) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.16  TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 7-1062) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.17  AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Town Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place proper signs
at the intersections.
   (B)   The making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any
day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly
indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns are permitted.
   (C)   Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified on any of the
streets as designated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1063) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.18  OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
like sign.
(Prior Code, § 7-1064) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.19  LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not upon
any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1065) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.30  AUTHORITY TO SIGN.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley there
shall be signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective
unless the signs are in place.
   (B)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-1071)
§ 71.31  PROHIBITION.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets designated by the town, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-1072) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SPECIAL STOPS
§ 71.45  DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   Those streets and parts of streets designated by the town are declared to be
through streets for the purpose of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 7-1081)
§ 71.46  AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersecting that portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of either of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-1082)
§ 71.47  INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The Town Board may determine and designate intersections where particular
hazard exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether
vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection, and
shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop is required, and on any of
the streets as designated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1083)
§ 71.48  SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD STOP.
   (A)   Every sign erected pursuant to these provisions shall bear the word
stop in letters not less than eight inches in height and the sign shall at
nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign.
   (B)   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable at the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, at the
nearest line of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1084)
§ 71.49  VEHICLES TO STOP AT SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected as herein authorized at or near the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
(Prior Code, § 7-1085) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.50  EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1086)
§ 71.51  STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1087) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.52  OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD TRAIN APPROACH SIGNAL.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
the vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely.
   (B)   The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flag person gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from the distance and the railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to the crossing.
   (C)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while the gate or barrier
is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1088) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
TRUCKS
§ 71.65   OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   No person shall operate or leave standing any truck, trailer, or semi-
trailer upon any street, or right-of-way within the corporate limits of the
town if the gross weight of the vehicle, including the trailer or any goods or
merchandise which is being hauled upon the vehicle exceeds the weight of 10,000
pounds.
(Prior Code, § 7-1131)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1975) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.66   SIGNS REQUIRED.
   All no thoroughfare streets or rights-of-way will be marked by properly
erected signs indicating No thoroughfare for vehicles with gross weight in
excess of 10,000 pounds, or language to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 7-1133)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1975) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.67  DISPOSITION OF TRUCKS FOUND IN VIOLATION.
   When any motor vehicle exceeding the weight restriction, as set forth in §
71.65 above, is left standing upon the right-of-way for a period of 24 hours or
more, the owner shall be deemed to have appointed any investigating law officer
his or her agent for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe
storage of the vehicle, and the investigating officer shall be deemed the legal
possessor of the motor vehicle within the meaning of that term as it appears in
G.S. § 44A-1(1).
(Prior Code, § 7-1134)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1975)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-161
PROHIBITED OPERATIONS
§ 71.80  DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles
comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion
and when the vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this section.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 7-1091)
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 7-1092)
   (C)   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as
the same by burning of headlights or by any other method as may be determined
and designated by the Traffic Division.
(Prior Code, § 7-1093)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.81  DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1094) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.82  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person, riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1095) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.83  CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at the entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-1096) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Applicability
   
72.02   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.03   Prohibited times for parking
   
72.04   Signs required
Parking Generally
   
72.15   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.16   Obstruction of traffic prohibited
   
72.17   Parking in alleys
   
72.18   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.19   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.20   Standing or parking on one-way roads
   
72.21   Standing or parking in hazardous or congested places
Method of Parking
   
72.35   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.36   Vehicles backed up to curb
   
72.37   Unattended vehicles
Loading and Unloading
   
72.50   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.51   Public carrier stops and stands
   
72.52   Busses and taxicabs; stands
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 7-1171)
§ 72.02  REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1172)
§ 72.03  PROHIBITED TIMES FOR PARKING.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets as designated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1173)
   (B)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or
upon any of the streets as designated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1174)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.04  SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other subchapter any parking time limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no regulations shall be effective unless the signs
are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1175)
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.15  PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (where properly sign-posted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 7-1151) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.16  OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in a
manner or under conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1152) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.17  PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in a manner or under
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley, in position as to block the driveway entrance
to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1153) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.18  PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
displaying the vehicle for sale or washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle
except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7-1154) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.19  PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 7-1155) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.20  STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit the standing or parking.
(Prior Code, § 7-1156) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.21  STANDING OR PARKING IN HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 7-1157) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.35  STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1141) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.36  VEHICLES BACKED UP TO CURB.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except when
actually loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 7-1142) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.37  UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicle running while the same is standing parked upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-1143) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 72.50  LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this subchapter and when signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1161) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.51  PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as designated by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1162)
§ 72.52  BUSSES AND TAXICABS; STANDS.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon
any street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated as provided
herein.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in a manner that the bus when stopped
to load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of the vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and the bus
approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly impede the movement of
other vehicular traffic.
      (4)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein.
      (5)   This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 7-1163)
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not
interfere with any bus, or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 7-1164) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.04   Riding on bicycles; in general
   
73.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.08   Carrying articles
   
73.09   Parking
   
73.10   Riding on sidewalks prohibited
   
73.11   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
§ 73.01  EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any  child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-1111) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.02  TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1112)
§ 73.03  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instruction of official
traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no persons operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event the person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 7-1113) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04  RIDING ON BICYCLES; IN GENERAL.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.  No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 7-1114) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.05  RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1115) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.06  SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1116) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.07  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1117) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.08  CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.
(Prior Code, § 7-1118) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.09  PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or at
the curb, in a manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1119) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.10  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when the signs are
in place no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   No person 15 or more years of age shall ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk.
   (D)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 7-1120) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.11  LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
which shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any persons
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 7-1121) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 74:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
74.02   Pedestrians' right-of-way in crosswalk
   
74.03   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
74.04   Crossing at right angles
   
74.05   Conditions when pedestrian shall yield
   
74.06   Prohibited crossing
   
74.07   Pedestrians walking along roadway
   
74.08   Drivers to exercise due care
§ 74.01  PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in §§
70.34 and
70.36 of this chapter, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1101)
§ 74.02  PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.  A
pedestrian's right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and as
stated in §
74.05(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-1102) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.03  PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 7-1103) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.04  CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1104) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.05  CONDITIONS WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
74.06 when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(Prior Code, § 7-1105) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.06  PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
(Prior Code, § 7-1106) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.07  PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAY.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 7-1107) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.08  DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway;
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary; and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1108) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Through streets
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   One-way streets and alleys
   
IV.   Speed limits
   
V.   Trucks; weight limits
SCHEDULE I.  THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets or portions of streets shall be known as through
streets:
Street Location
Street                   Location
Best Street              From the intersection of Pine Street (U.S. 117) east
                         to the eastern corporate limits
                         From the intersection of Pine Street east to Memorial
Chelly Street            Drive and east of Memorial Drive to the eastern
                         corporate limits
College Street (N.C. 24) Where it intersects with Memorial Drive (N.C. 50) west
                         to the western corporate limits
Forest Road              East from Orville Street where it dead ends with
                         Doolittle Street
Front Street             From the intersection of Hill Street north to
                         corporate limits
Front Street             North from College Street to the intersection of Hill
                         Street
Front Street             South from the intersection of College Street to
                         corporate limits
Gum Street               From the intersection of College Street (N.C. 24) to
                         the corporate limits
Hill Street              From the intersection of Front Street west to the
                         corporate limits
                         From the intersection of Pine Street east to Memorial
Hill Street              Drive (N.C. 24) and east of Memorial Drive to the
                         corporate limits
Memorial Drive (N.C. 50) From where it intersects with Pine Street southeast to
                         College Street (N.C. 24)
Pine Street              From the northern corporate limits south to the
                         southern corporate limits
Pinecrest Drive          From the intersection of College Street south to Best
                         Street
Prospect Street          From the intersection of Jordan Street west to the
                         corporate limits
                         From the intersection of Hill Street South to College
Railroad Street          Street and from the intersection of Railroad Street
                         with College Street south to the corporate limits
Wards Bridge Road        From the intersection of Memorial Drive east to the
                         corporate limits
Yancey Street            Where it intersects with Chelly Street north to the
                         corporate limits
 
(Prior Code, § 106)
SCHEDULE II.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections listed herein are intersections at which stop is required
before entering.
   (A)   The following are intersections where non-through streets intersect
with non-through streets:
Location Intersections
Location                               Intersections
Area east of Railroad Street and south East and west bound traffic on Bay
of College Street                      Street where it intersects with Cross
                                       Street
Area east of Railroad Street and south East and west bound traffic on Bay
of College Street                      Street where it intersects with Bell
                                       Street
Area east of Railroad Street and south East bound traffic on George Street
of College Street                      where it intersects with Cross Street
Area east of Railroad Street and south East bound traffic on Bay Street where
of College Street                      it intersects with State Road 1108
Area lying north of College Street and East bound traffic on North Street where
east of Front Street                   it intersects with Gum Street
Area lying north of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Gum
east of Front Street                   Street where it intersects with Dudley
                                       Street
Area lying north of College Street and East and west bound traffic on Pollock
east of Front Street                   Street where it intersects with Center
                                       Street
Area lying north of College Street and East and west bound traffic on Pollock
east of Front Street                   Street where it intersects with North
                                       Gum Street
Area lying north of College Street and North and south bound traffic on
east of Front Street                   Brighton Avenue where it intersects with
                                       Pollock Street
Area lying north of College Street and East and west bound traffic on Plank
east of Front Street                   Road where it intersects with Center
                                       Street
Area lying north of College Street and East and west bound traffic on Plank
east of Front Street                   Road where it intersects with Gum Street
Area lying north of College Street and East bound traffic on Plank Road where
east of Front Street                   it intersects with Frisco Street
Area lying north of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Center
east of Front Street                   Street where it intersects with Dudley
                                       Street
Area lying north of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Frisco
east of Front Street                   Street where it intersects with Pollock
                                       Street
Area lying north of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Center
east of Front Street                   Street where it intersects with North
                                       Street
Area lying south of College Street and East and west bound traffic on Curtis
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east Road where it intersects with Douglas
of Memorial Drive                      Street
Area lying south of College Street and East and west bound traffic on Walnut
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east Street where it intersects with Wisteria
of Memorial Drive                      Street
Area lying south of College Street and South bound traffic on Wisteria Street
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east where it intersects with Walnut Street
of Memorial Drive
Area lying south of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Elm
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east Street where it intersects with Walnut
of Memorial Drive                      Street
Area lying south of College Street and East bound traffic on Curtis Road where
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east it dead ends with Doolittle Street
of Memorial Drive
Area lying south of College Street and South bound traffic on Frisco Street
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east where it intersects with Bay Street
of Memorial Drive
Area lying south of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Center
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east Street where it intersects with Bay
of Memorial Drive                      Street
Area lying south of College Street and North and south bound traffic on Center
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east Street where it intersects with George
of Memorial Drive                      Street
Area lying south of College Street and North and south bound traffic on South
east of Pine Street (U.S. 117) or east Center Street where it intersects with
of Memorial Drive                      John Street
Area north of College Street and east  North bound traffic on Pershing Street
of Railroad Street                     where it intersects with Plank Road
Area north of College Street and east  North bound traffic on Jordan Street
of Railroad Street                     where it intersects with Plank Road
Area north of College Street and east  East and west bound traffic on Plank
of Railroad Street                     Road where it intersects with Cross
                                       Street
Area north of College Street and east  North bound traffic on Lizzie Street
of Railroad Street                     where it intersects with Plank Road
Area north of College Street and east  North bound traffic on Cross Street
of Railroad Street                     where it intersects with the Atlantic
                                       Coastline Railroad
Area north of College Street and east  East and west bound traffic on Plank
of Railroad Street                     Road where it intersects with Bell
                                       Street
 
   (B)   The following are intersections where through streets intersect with
through streets:
Location Intersections
Location                              Intersections
Area north of College Street and east East bound traffic on Chelly Street
of Front Street                       where it intersects with Hill Street
Area north of College Street and east North bound traffic on Memorial Drive
of Front Street                       (N.C. 50) where it intersects with Pine
                                      Street (U.S. 117)
Area north of College Street and east West bound traffic on Plank Road where
of Front Street                       it intersects with Front Street
Area north of College Street and west South bound traffic on Yancey Street
of Railroad Street                    where it intersects with Hill Street
Area north of College Street and west North bound traffic on Railroad Street
of Railroad Street                    where it intersects with Hill Street
Area north of College Street and east North bound traffic on Front Street
of Front Street                       where it intersects with Hill Street
Area north of College Street and east East and west bound traffic on Chelly
of Front Street                       Street where it intersects with Memorial
                                      Drive (N.C. 50)
Area north of College Street and east West and east bound traffic on Chelly
of Front Street                       Street where it intersects with Pine
                                      Street (U.S. 117)
Area north of College Street and east West bound traffic on Chelly Street
of Front Street                       where it intersects with Front Street
Area south of College Street and east North bound traffic on Gum Street where
of Front Street                       it intersects with College Street (N.C.
                                      24)
Area south of College Street and east South bound traffic on Gum Street where
of Front Street                       it intersects with Best Street
Area south of College Street and east North bound traffic on Pinecrest Drive
of Front Street                       where it intersects with College Street
                                      (N.C. 24)
Area south of College Street and east East bound traffic on Pinecrest Drive
of Front Street                       where it intersects with Best Street
Area south of College Street and east East bound traffic on Pinecrest Drive
of Front Street                       where it intersects with Best Street
Area south of College Street and east East and west bound traffic on Best
of Front Street                       Street where it intersects with Pine
                                      Street (U.S. 117)
Area south of College Street and east East bound traffic on College Street
of Front Street                       (N.C. 24) where it intersects with
                                      Memorial Drive (N.C. 50)
Area south of College Street and west North and south bound traffic on
of Front Street                       Railroad Street where it intersects with
                                      College Street (N.C. 24)
Area south of College Street and east West bound traffic on Wards Bridge Road
of Front Street                       where it intersects with N.C. Highway 24
Area south of College Street and east Memorial Drive (N.C. 50) where it
of Front Street                       intersects with College Street (N.C. 24)
 
(Prior Code, § 107) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III.  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following are designated as one-way streets:
 
Street          Location
Front Street    From the intersection of College Street to Hill Street
Railroad Street From the intersection of Hill Street south to College Street
 
(Prior Code, § 108) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Twenty miles per hour is the speed limit on the following streets:
 
Street                   Location                       Ord. No. Date Passed
                         From a point approximately 300
College Street (N.C. 24) feet west of Front Street      -        10-5-1964
                         (S.R. 116, S.R. 1348) eastward
                         to Pine Street (U.S. 117)
                         From Front Street (S.R. 1348)
Hill Street (S.R. 1347)  to North Pine Street (U.S. 117 -        2-1-1965
                         - N.C. 50)
North Front Street (S.R. From College Street (N.C. 24)  -        10-5-1964
1116)                    to Chelly Street
South Front Street (S.R. From Bay Street to College     -        10-5-1964
1116)                    Street (N.C. 24)
 
(Prior Code, § 113)
   (B)   Forty-five miles per hour is the speed limit on the following streets:
 
Street                   Location                       Ord. No. Date Passed
North Front Street (S.R. From Dudley Street to S.R.     -        4-10-1972
1348)                    1387
                         From the intersection of
North Front Street       Dudley Street running north to -        - -1976
                         the northern corporate limits
North Pine Street (U.S.  From the intersection of
Highway 117)             Dudley Street running north to -          - -1976
                         the northern corporate limits
                         From the intersection of S.R.
North Pine Street        1305 north to the corporate    -        - -
                         limits
 
(Prior Code, § 117) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V.  TRUCKS; WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Section
71.65 shall not apply to the following:
 
Exceptions to Section
71.65
Any vehicle using a main thoroughfare through the corporate limits through the
town
Any vehicle when the vehicle is delivering goods or merchandise to a specific
place within the town
Any disabled vehicle which by reason of necessity is left parked or unattended
on a street or right-of-way
 
   (B)   Thoroughfares through the corporate limits are restricted to:
 
Restrictions
U.S. Highway Number 117
N.C. Highway Number 24
N.C. Highway Number 50
 
(Prior Code, § 7-1132)  (Ord. passed 9-8-1975)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
94.   NUISANCES
         
95.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
         
96.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Animals at large
   
90.02   Hog pens
   
90.03   Ferocious dogs at large prohibited
   
90.04   Dogs as nuisances
   
90.05   Registration of dogs required
   
90.06   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
90.07   Owner defined
   
90.08   Disposition of dogs found running at large
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01   ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   No horse, goat, cattle or other animals, shall be permitted to run at
large within the town limits.
   (B)   All animals caught running at large shall be impounded by the police
and unless claimed within three days shall be disposed of as the town shall
deem best.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.02  HOG PENS.
   No person shall be permitted to keep or maintain any hog pen, or keep any
hogs, cows, chickens, or horses within the corporate limits.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03   FEROCIOUS DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning and/or keeping within the corporate limits of the
town a ferocious dog, as defined herein, shall allow the dog to run at large or
roam the streets unattended by the owner, some member of the owner's family, or
by some other person with permission.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         FEROCIOUS DOG.  Any dog, on or off the premises of its custodian, and
without provocation has killed, bitten or caused physical harm through bite(s)
to a person; or has without provocation attempted to bite or cause physical
harm through bites to a person; or without provocation has injured, maimed or
killed a pet or domestic livestock.
      (2)   After 24 hours and proper notification to the owner or other person
keeping the dog that the dog was considered FEROCIOUS, the person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor by allowing the dog to roam or run at large within the
corporate limits.
      (3)   It is further provided that after proper notification as set forth
in division (B)(2) above, that each day or subsequent 24-hour period in which
the dog is allowed to run free shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   It is further provided that the ferocious dog may be picked up and
turned over to the County Dog Catcher to be disposed of according to law.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04  DOGS AS NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any person keeping within the corporate limits of the town a dog(s)
that either damages, soils or defiles private or public property; interferes
with, molests or attacks persons or other animals; is repeatedly at large;
causes unsanitary and offensive conditions, including interrupting the
tranquility of the community through excessive, continuous or untimely barking,
whining, or howling; chases, snaps at, harasses or impedes pedestrians,
bicyclists or vehicles; or is diseased, shall be guilty of maintaining a
nuisance.
   (B)   Upon written and signed complaint being made to the Police Department
by two or more residents, a representative of the Police Department shall
notify the person against whom the complaint is directed that a complaint has
been received, and thereupon, the person shall abate the nuisance declared in
division (A) above, within 24 hours from the time of notification.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05  REGISTRATION OF DOGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of dogs within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required to register the dog or dogs with the Town Clerk; provided, however,
that no dog shall be registered unless evidence, satisfactory to the Town
Clerk, is presented by a certificate from a qualified, licensed, practicing
veterinarian or otherwise to the effect that the dog has received his or her
proper shots; including rabies and that the shots were received at the proper
time or interval of time.
   (B)   (1)   A dog tag will then be issued by the Town Clerk or his or her
representative upon receipt of $5.
      (2)   This tag should be affixed to the collar around the neck of the dog
and displayed in a manner as to be visible upon the dog at all times.
   (C)    All dog owners will make application for dog tags before January 1 of
each year.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning and/or keeping within the corporate limits of the
town a dog more than three months old, shall allow the dog to run at large or
roam the streets unattended by the owner, some member of the owner's family, or
by some other person with permission.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner or any other person consenting
to the dog's presence on his or her premises when neither muzzled nor under the
control of the owner or other person accompanying the dog by means of a leash
of some type, not exceeding six feet in length or when not in a private
vehicle.
      DOG.  Any dog, male or female, over the age of six months and member of
the order of genus canis.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.07  OWNER DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER.  Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog, and the head of the
household shall be deemed the owner in respect to any dog owned, kept or
harbored by any other person residing in the household.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001)
§ 90.08  DISPOSITION OF DOGS FOUND RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Any dog running at large, as set forth in §
90.06, shall be impounded by any police officer or designated official of the
town.
   (B)   The town will keep the dog impounded for a period of three days; at
any time after the dog is impounded an owner may reclaim the dog upon payment
of a fee of $50, after showing satisfactory evidence of ownership of the dog
and the acquisition of a registration tag as set forth in §
90.05, if applicable.
   (C)   Any dog not reclaimed within the three-day period shall be turned over
to the County Dog Catcher with instructions to have the dog destroyed.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to regulate animals, see G.S. §§ 160A-186 and
160A-187
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.03(A) shall be guilty of a class III misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be subject to a fine not exceeding $50 as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to abate the nuisance declared herein
within 24 hours from the time of notification shall be guilty of a class III
misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $50
as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2001)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code by reference
Cross-reference:
   Volunteer Fire Department; Related Regulations, see
Ch. 34
§ 91.01   ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   Except as the same may be in conflict with the laws of the state and the
ordinances of the town, there is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, the most recent edition of the International Fire Code and the same
is hereby adopted and incorporated in this chapter as fully as if set out at
length herein and the provisions hereof shall be controlling within the limits
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2011)
CHAPTER 92:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Abandoned motor vehicles prohibited
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Removal by town
   
92.04   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
92.05   Certificate of title
   
92.06   Exceptions
§ 92.01  ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be abandoned on the public
streets of the town, or on the public or private property within the corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-3001)  (Ord. passed 5-10-1976) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle shall be ABANDONED when it:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for more than 24
hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street, right-of-way, or highway for more
than seven days.
(Prior Code, § 8-3003)
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle  that is:
      (1)   Partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old, and is worth less than $50; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
(Prior Code, § 8-3004)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Includes all machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-3002)
(Ord. passed 5-10-1976)
§ 92.03     REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   (A)   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle found to be in violation of this
chapter may be removed to a storage garage, provided that no vehicle of this
type shall be removed from private property without written request of the
owner, lessee or occupant of the premises, unless the premises has been
declared a public nuisance, or health or safety hazard.
   (B)   The town may require the person requesting the removal of the vehicle
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense, or liabilities which may be
incurred as a result of the removal, storage or sale of the vehicle.
   (C)   When any junked or abandoned motor vehicle is removed the town shall
give written notice to the registered owner at his or her last known address in
accordance with the latest registration certificate or title certificate on
file with the Department of Motor Vehicles; the notice shall inform the owner
of the intended sale or other disposition of the vehicle; the owner may regain
possession of the vehicle by paying to the town all reasonable costs incidental
to the removal and storage.
   (D)   Provided, however, that no notice need be given to the registered
owner when the vehicle does not display a license plate and/or when the vehicle
identification numbers have been removed or defaced so as to be illegible.
(Prior Code, § 8-3005)  (Ord. passed 5-10-1976)
§ 92.04  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The town after holding an unclaimed abandoned motor vehicle for
30 days may sell or dispose of it as provided herein.
      (2)   If the vehicle appears to have a fair market value of less than
$100, it may be disposed of as a junked motor vehicle as provided by §
92.02 of this chapter.
      (3)   Provided, however, that the town with the consent of the owner may
remove and dispose of any motor vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without
regard to the value, condition or age and without holding it for any period of
time.
   (B)   (1)   If the vehicle has a fair market value of $100 or more, it may
be sold at public auction, and the town shall give 20-days' written notice of
the sale to the registered owner at his or her last known address, to holders
of all liens of record and to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The motor vehicle may be redeemed by anyone having an interest,
before the sale, by paying all costs accrued.
      (3)   The town after paying all costs and liens, in that order, shall pay
any surplus to the registered owner; provided, however, that if the registered
owner cannot be located within 60 days, the surplus funds shall be deposited to
the general fund.
(Prior Code, 8-3006)  (Ord. passed 5-10-1976)
§ 92.05  CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   The Department of Motor Vehicles will issue a new certificate of title
to the purchaser upon receipt of the town's bill of sale.
   (B)   Section
92.05 does not apply when a motor vehicle has no license plate or has illegible
vehicle identification numbers; any vehicle of this type may be destroyed or
sold at private sale after being held for 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-3007)  (Ord. passed 5-10-1976)
§ 92.06  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any vehicle in an enclosed
building on the premises of a business, being operated in a lawful manner when
the vehicle is necessary for the operation of the business or to any vehicle in
an appropriate storage place.
(Prior Code, § 8-3008)  (Ord. passed 5-10-1976)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavation and Repair
   
93.01   Permit; application; town indemnified
   
93.02   Street repair
   
93.03   Excavation; duty to warn
   
93.04   Supervision and control
   
93.05   Disposition of fees
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
   
93.07   Streets not to be damaged
   
93.08   House moving
   
93.09   Damage to municipal property
   
93.10   Board approval of new streets
Obstructions; Awnings
   
93.20   Assembly on sidewalk
   
93.21   Display of goods prohibited
   
93.22   Placing objects on streets and sidewalks
   
93.23   Construction near sidewalk
   
93.24   Sheds and awnings
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 93.01  PERMIT; APPLICATION; TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch,
trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other
public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires,
poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the Town Manager or some other officer of the town vested with
authority to grant the same.
      (2)   Provided, that a permit shall not be required where the work is
performed under a contract with the town but in the event the work requires a
sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall
notify the Town Manager, the Public Works Department and the Police Department
at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented
by sudden emergency.
(Prior Code, § 4-1001)
   (B)   (1)   All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any
street or sidewalk, as set forth in division (A) above, shall make written
application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed
opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of
surface to be cut.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by the fee required by
division (C) of this section.
      (3)   The fee required for making any opening in any street or sidewalk
shall be according to a schedule of fees established by the Board and
maintained at the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 4-1002)
   (C)   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in divisions (A) and (B)
herein agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit to indemnify and
hold harmless the town against any claims or expenses, including attorney's
fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising
out of the person's operations, excluding only the liability of the town for
its sole negligence except in connection with general supervision of work
performed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 4-1003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.02  STREET REPAIR.
   (A)   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of
the town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the
excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or
opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed
prior to the excavation or opening and the refilling shall be done in
accordance with the standards and specifications issued by the Superintendent
of Public Works or his or her duly authorized representative.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation, neglecting, refusing, or failing to
comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation
thereof; and where the neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice
from the Superintendent of Public Works or his or her authorized
representative, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1004)
§ 93.03  EXCAVATION; DUTY TO WARN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place of the town without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the same,
sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work, and to protect all
persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-1005) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04  SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public
places of the town shall be under the supervision and control of the
Superintendent of Public Works, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from
time to time during the progress thereof.
   (B)   Upon completion thereof, he or she shall make a final inspection and
see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to a condition as
good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or done, and
that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed therefrom.
   (C)   Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where the failure or
refusal is continued after notice from the Superintendent of Public Works,
every day's continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1006) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.05  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be paid into
the general fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-1007)
§ 93.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation, of any brick, wood, or other material without a written permit
from the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1008) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.07  STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag, or
run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine,
machine or tool upon any asphalt, or other type of permanently paved street of
the town which shall in any way damage or cut the surface thereof.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to damage any dirt street in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-1009) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.08  HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the consent and assistance of the Superintendent of Street
Maintenance; if necessary, the deposit of a sufficient bond to cover damage
done, if any, to the street or sidewalk or to any property of any person shall
be required.
(Prior Code, § 4-1010) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.09  DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal
or bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks
except employees of the town in performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-1011) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.10  BOARD APPROVAL OF NEW STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted as
such, and officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Board must
give its approval, finding:
   (A)   The street complies with engineering standards set by the Board; and
   (B)   The best interests of the town would be served by accepting the street
as a town street.
(Prior Code, § 4-1021)
OBSTRUCTIONS; AWNINGS
§ 93.20  ASSEMBLY ON SIDEWALK.
   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing so as
to obstruct any sidewalk or street and all persons so collecting and standing
shall disperse and move upon the demand of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-2001) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.21  DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town, without written approval from
Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 6-2002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.22  PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No brick, stone or wood or other substances obstructing the free
passage of persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of
the alleyways, streets or other routes, of the town, nor shall any person place
on or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any boxes,
crates, casks, or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any
kind.
   (B)   Provided that any person erecting a building, may with permission
place building material for immediate use on the streets in a way as to not
interfere with the usual traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.23  CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 6-2004) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.24  SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk or street any wooden
shed or awning or any wooden shed for the support of an awning or erect upon
any street or sidewalk any post for the support of any awning.
   (B)   If any person shall violate this section then each day that the above
forbidden structure shall remain after notice shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (C)   Provided that this shall not be construed to prevent the erection over
the sidewalk of cloth or metal awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly
suspended from the buildings, and at least seven feet above the level of the
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-2005) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions; Nuisances
   
94.01   Unnecessary noises prohibited
Weeds and Refuse
   
94.15   Trimming required
   
94.16   Failure to trim; costs a lien
   
94.17   Notice to abate
   
94.18   Failure of owner to abate
   
94.19   Cost incurred by owner
   
94.20   Charges become a lien
   
94.21   Procedure as alternative to other authorized procedures
General Health Regulations
   
94.35   Enforcement under supervision of County Health Officer
   
94.36   Unlawful to hinder Health Officer or assistants
   
94.37   Right to enter
   
94.38   Debris from new construction
   
94.39   Septic tanks
GENERAL PROVISIONS; NUISANCES
§ 94.01  UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
create or assist in creating, permit, continue, or permit the continuance of
any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town.
      (2)   Noise of a character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental
to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-6001)
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loud speaker, or any other instrument, or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner as renders
the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to the
Manager, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce
programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or loud
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit may be
renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution, provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong, attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance except by permit from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-6002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate loud noises, see G.S. § 160A-184
WEEDS AND REFUSE
§ 94.15  TRIMMING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner or person in charge or possession of a vacant property
within the town shall cut down, within four inches of the ground, or disk or
plow under, all weeds, grass, stalks or other noxious growth, exclusive of
growing crops, before the crop is harvested from the property at least twice
each year, the first removal not later than June 30, and the second not later
than October 15 of each year.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all vacant property within the town limits
where dry weeds, stalks, grass or other noxious growth may constitute a fire
hazard and thereby be detrimental to the safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4001)  (Ord. passed 9-1-1975) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.16  FAILURE TO TRIM; COSTS A LIEN.
   (A)   If the weeds or other noxious growth are not cut within 30 days after
written notice from the town, in compliance with this section, the town may
cause the weeds, or other noxious growth to be cut and a cost thereof shall be
a lien against the property.
   (B)   Notice shall be sufficient in the form of a letter from the town to
the owner or person in possession of the property.
(Prior Code, § 8-4002)  (Ord. passed 9-1-1975)
§ 94.17  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon a determination that the conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Chief of Police shall notify, in writing, the owner, occupant or
person in possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting
the public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within five
days from the receipt of the written notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-4003)
§ 94.18  FAILURE OF OWNER TO ABATE.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 30 days from the receipt of the order, the Town Manager shall cause the
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Board.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may within
the time allowed by this chapter request the town in writing to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(Prior Code, § 8-4004)
§ 94.19  COST INCURRED BY OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and
it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of the charges to
the owner or other person in possession of the premises with instructions that
the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-4005)
§ 94.20  CHARGES BECOME A LIEN.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
94.19, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(Prior Code, § 8-4006)
§ 94.21  PROCEDURE AS ALTERNATIVE TO OTHER AUTHORIZED PROCEDURES.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm, or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 8-4007)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to provide regulations for the abatement of
weed and refuse nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
§ 94.35  ENFORCEMENT UNDER SUPERVISION OF COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be under the supervision of the County
Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 8-5001)
§ 94.36  UNLAWFUL TO HINDER HEALTH OFFICER OR ASSISTANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the health
officer or any of his or her assistants in the lawful discharge of their
duties.
(Prior Code, § 8-5002) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.37  RIGHT TO ENTER.
   With appropriate warrant or permission from the owner or occupant of the
premises, the Health Officer or any of his or her assistants shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any premises for the purpose of making
the inspections or investigations as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5003)
§ 94.38  DEBRIS FROM NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All refuse, lumber and debris, remaining both as a result of the repair of
any new buildings, or of the erection and completion of any new buildings,
shall be removed by the property owner within ten days from the completion of
the aforementioned work.
(Prior Code, § 8-5004) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.39  SEPTIC TANKS.
   Septic tanks may be installed where a sewer is not reasonably accessible,
provided, the tank is constructed in accordance with the specifications of the
Department of Human Resources, Division of Health Services and applicable
county health regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-5005)
CHAPTER 95:  PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
Parades, Demonstrations, and Street Events
   
95.01   Parades
   
95.02   Pickets
   
95.03   Footraces and bicycle races
   
95.04   Possession of firearms and dangerous weapons prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalty
PARADES, DEMONSTRATIONS AND STREET EVENTS
§ 95.01  PARADES.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PARADE.  As an assemblage of two or more persons participating in or
operating any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or in any
procession, promotion or demonstration of any kind in or upon the public
streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds in any manner, provided that the
term shall not include:
      (1)   Pickets, as defined in §
95.02;
      (2)   Funeral processions;
      (3)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions;
      (4)   Bands or marching groups proceeding to an assembly point for
participation in a parade; or
      (5)   Footraces and bicycle races as defined in §
95.03.
   (B)   Permit required.  No parade shall be conducted on the public ways of
this town and no person shall inaugurate, promote or participate in any parade
of this type unless the parade is conducted in conformity with the requirements
set out herein and unless a permit has been obtained from the Chief of Police
or his or her designated representative.
   (C)   Procedures for obtaining permit. 
      (1)   Application for a parade permit shall be made in writing at least
72 hours before the time at which the parade shall be scheduled to begin and
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing the parade;
         (b)   The location or locations in the town where the parade is
proposed to take place;
         (c)   The date and hours for which permit is sought;
         (d)   The name of the person applying for the permit;
         (e)   Whether or not persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate;
         (f)   The person or persons to be in charge of the activity and who
will accompany it and carry the permit at all times; and
         (g)   An estimate of the number of people and the number and type of
vehicles to participate in the parade.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application properly completed and timely filed
as herein above set out, the designated officer shall immediately issue a
permit consistent with the standards prescribed herein. The permit shall
contain all information stated on the application and shall be signed by the
issuing officer.
   (D)   Standards for conduct of parades.  The following standards shall apply
to all parades conducted in the town:
      (1)   No parade or part thereof may be conducted on the streets of the
town between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
except on Saturdays and Sundays.
      (2)   No more than one parade may be conducted within the town at any one
time.
      (3)   Every parade shall follow a route approved by the Chief of Police
or his or her designated agent.
      (4)   No one participating in a parade or proceeding along the route of a
parade shall distribute therefrom any candy, cigarettes, prizes or favors of
any kind.
      (5)   No vicious animal whether leashed or unleashed shall participate in
or proceed along the route of a parade.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.02  PICKETS.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PICKET, PICKETS and PICKETING.  Include demonstrators, persons
participating in vigils and any action primarily promoting or objecting to a
policy upon those portions of the public ways not used primarily for vehicular
parking and moving traffic and not constituting a parade.
   (B)   Conditions under which picketing permitted; notice of intent and
receipt required.  Peaceful picketing shall be permitted in the town provided
the same is done under the following conditions:
      (1)   No picketing shall be conducted on the public ways of this town and
no person shall participate in the same unless notice of intent to picket has
been given to the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative at
least 72 hours prior to time of picket.  After review, the Chief of Police or
his or her representative shall issue a picket receipt no later than 24 hours
prior the event.
      (2)   A notice of intent to picket shall be given in writing and shall
contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing to picket;
         (b)   The location or locations in the town where the pickets propose
to assemble and demonstrate;
         (c)   The date(s) and hours during which the picketing is to occur;
         (d)   The name of the person and organization giving notice of intent
to picket;
         (e)   Whether or not persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate;
         (f)   An estimate of the number of people who will be picketing; and
         (g)   The name of the person or persons to be in charge of the
activity and who will accompany it and carry any receipt of notice at all
times.
      (3)   Upon the giving of notice of intent to picket, properly completed
as herein above set out, the designated officer shall issue a picket receipt no
later than 24 hours prior to the event.  The receipt shall contain all
information stated in the notice.  Notice shall be given by the holder of a
picket receipt to the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative
immediately upon cessation of the picketing for a period of 24 hours or more. 
Before resumption of picketing interrupted for any like period, a new notice
shall be given and a new picket receipt issued.
   (C)   Standards of conduct for picketing activities.
      (1)   Picketing shall be conducted only on portions of the public ways
not used primarily for vehicular parking or moving traffic.
      (2)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding 24 inches by 24 inches promoting the objective for which picketing is
done provided the words used would not tend to incite violence.
      (3)   Pickets must, if marching, march in single file, not abreast, and
may not march closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
Pickets not marching shall remain at least 15 feet apart.
      (4)   If pickets promoting different objectives, causes, actions or
policies desire to use a sidewalk that is already being used for picketing, the
Chief of Police or his or her designated agents shall allot a number of pickets
promoting each objective to use the sidewalk, on an equitable basis, according
to the number of objectives being promoted.
      (5)   Pickets shall be restricted to the use of the outermost half of the
sidewalk or other public way nearest the street and shall not at any time nor
in any way obstruct, interfere with, or block persons entering or exiting from
vehicles, persons crossing streets or otherwise using the public way, the
entrance or exit to any building or access to property abutting the street or
sidewalk, or pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (6)   No person observing, engaging in, or assisting in picketing shall
bring to or allow to remain in the immediate area of picketing any vicious
animal.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to picket without filing a notice
as required herein and being issued a receipt of the notice.
      (8)   The provisions of divisions (B) through (D) of this section are
mandatory and not merely directory, and failure to comply with the provisions
of these sections is hereby declared to be unlawful and punishable as provided
by law.
   (D)   Interference with pickets prohibited; police authority to disperse
crowds; failure to leave when ordered declared offense. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
pickets in the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent abusive, or
threatening language to or at those pickets which would tend to provoke the
pickets or others to a breach of the peace.
      (2)   In the event of the assemblage of persons in numbers as to tend to
intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful objective through numbers alone or
through use of inflammatory words, police officers of the town may direct the
dispersal of persons so assembled.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
refuse to disperse or move on when so directed by a police officer, and police
officers may arrest any person who fails to do so.
      (3)   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town
shall be obstructed by a crowd, whether or not the crowd assembles as a result
of or in connection with picketing, the persons composing the crowd shall
disperse or move on when directed to do so by a police officer.  It shall be
unlawful for any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by
a police officer, and police officers may arrest any person who fails to do so.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.03  FOOTRACES AND BICYCLE RACES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE RACE.  A group of three or more bicyclists competing against
either each other or a time limit over a fixed course, all or a part of which
involves the use of a town street right-of-way.
      FOOTRACE.  A group of three or more runners or walkers competing against
either each other or a time limit over a fixed course, all or a part of which
involves the use of a town street right-of-way.
   (B)   Application.  Application for a race covered by this section shall be
made in writing at least 15 working days before the time at which the race
shall be scheduled to begin and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing the race;
      (2)   The location or locations in the town where the race is proposed to
take place;
      (3)   The date and hours for which permit is sought;
      (4)   The name of the person applying for the permit;
      (5)   Whether or not persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate;
      (6)   An estimate of the number of persons expected to participate in the
race; and
      (7)   The name of the person or persons to be in charge of the activity
and who will accompany it and carry permit at all times.
   (C)   Issuance of permit.  Upon receipt of an application properly completed
and timely filed as herein above set out, the designated officer shall
immediately issue a permit consistent with the standards prescribed herein. 
The permit shall contain all information stated on the application and shall be
signed by the issuing officer.
   (D)   Standards.  The following standards shall apply to all footraces and
bicycle races subject to this section conducted in the town:
      (1)   No more than one race may be conducted within the town at any one
time.
      (2)   Every race shall follow a route approved by the Chief of Police or
his or her designated agent.
      (3)   No one participating in a race or proceeding along the route of a
race shall distribute therefrom any candy, cigarettes, prizes or favors of any
kind.
      (4)   No vicious animal whether leashed or unleashed shall participate in
or proceed along the route of a race.
      (5)   (a)   The organizer of an event subject to this section shall make
provision for proper safety procedures at intersections and along other
sections of the right-of-way.
         (b)   The location of the safety monitors shall be determined by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee and the personnel shall be provided at
no cost to the town.
         (c)   Personnel hired for the duties shall be sworn law enforcement
officers certified by the North Carolina Criminal Justice Education and
Training Standards Commission.
      (6)   The permit shall not be issued until the sponsor shall acquire
sufficient insurance or approval by the Town Attorney to indemnify the town for
damages or liability which the town might incur.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.04  POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess on or about his or her
person or vehicle any firearm or dangerous weapon of any kind, as defined
below, whether exposed or concealed, while participating in any parade or any
picketing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person present at any parade or picketing
or any person upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public property within
500 feet of any parade or picketing, to possess on or about his or her person
or vehicle any firearm or dangerous weapon of any kind, as defined below,
whether exposed or concealed.
   (C)   For purposes of this subchapter, the term DANGEROUS WEAPON shall be
defined as any device or substance designed or capable of being used to inflict
serious injury to any person or property, including, but not limited to:
firearms, airguns, BB guns, pellet guns, knives or razors with a blade more
than three inches in length, metallic knuckles, clubs, blackjacks, nightsticks,
dynamite cartridges, bombs, grenades, explosives, Molotov cocktails and sword
canes.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the following persons while acting
lawfully and within the scope of their duties and authority:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers; and/or
      (2)   Officers and soldiers of the armed forces, militia and national
guard.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.04.  Any violation may be punished by a fine of not more than $50 or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.  Violations affecting each tree, shrub
or plant shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
CHAPTER 96:  LITTERING
Section
   
96.01   Littering prohibited
   
96.02   Maintenance of public area
   
96.03   Receptacles
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to throw or deposit upon any street or sidewalk, or upon any
private property, except with written permission of the owner or occupant of
the private property any trash, refuse, garbage, building material, cans,
bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of litter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2011)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 6-2012) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.02  MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREA.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas for the
use of the public, either for parking or as access area and incident to the
carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon the street or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 6-2013) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.03  RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas
within the meaning of §
96.02 hereof.
   (B)   The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent the
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other materials deposited therein.
(Prior Code, § 6-2014) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Any owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises within the meaning of §
96.02 hereof who fails to abide by the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor offense, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 6-2015)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   TAXICABS
         
113.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
         
114.   POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Licensing Procedures; Privilege License Taxes
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax upon certain trades and business operations
   
110.03   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
110.04   License taxes shall be for 12 months
   
110.05   License required for every separate business
   
110.06   License required for every place of business
   
110.07   License must be displayed at place of business licensed
   
110.08   No abatement of license tax
   
110.09   Schedule of annual privilege licenses
GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES; PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT.  The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer, or
distributor.
   BUSINESS.  Any BUSINESS, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provision of this chapter, to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS.  ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR.  The period beginning with July 1 and ending with June 30 next
following.
   PERSON.  Any PERSON, firm, partnership, company or corporation.
   QUARTER.  Any three consecutive months.
(Prior Code, § 2-4011)
§ 110.02  LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN TRADES AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the tax on property, as otherwise provided for, and
under the power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall
be levied and collected annually or more often, where provided for, a privilege
license tax on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions, circuses,
and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in the following
sections and schedule.
   (B)   All licenses shall be a personal privilege and shall not be
transferable.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the Board from
imposing from time to time, as they may see fit, the license taxes as are not
specifically herein defined, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any
special license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the business or acts
licensed, and all licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing
ordinances or those hereafter enacted.
(Prior Code, § 2-4012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy privilege license taxes, see G.S. § 160A-211
   Privilege license tax administration, see G.S. §§ 105.33 et seq.
§ 110.03  UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to
engage in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a
license, without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this section the opening of a place of
business or offering to sell, followed by a single sale or other doing of any
act or thing in furtherance of the business, shall be construed to be engaging
in or carrying on the business.
      (2)   Each day that the person, firm or corporation shall engage in or
carry on the business as aforementioned, shall be construed to be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-4013) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.04  LICENSE TAXES SHALL BE FOR 12 MONTHS.
   All taxes provided for and fixed in the following sections and schedule
shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified, and shall so remain for 12
months beginning July 1, and ending June 30; provided that where the license is
issued after January 1, then the licensee shall be required to pay one half the
tax prescribed except where otherwise specifically provided for.
(Prior Code, § 2-4014)
§ 110.05  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing the tax, it being the intent of this chapter that license
taxes prescribed by various sections or divisions of this chapter applicable to
any business shall be cumulative except where otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-4015)
§ 110.06  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only
valid for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named
therein.  Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse
or store, stall or stand, or other place of business, shall secure a separate
license for each place of business, unless the places of business are
contiguous to each other, communicate directly with an opening into each other
and are operated as a unit.
   (B)   If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a
new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under
the original license is obtained from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-4016) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.07  LICENSE MUST BE DISPLAYED AT PLACE OF BUSINESS LICENSED.
   (A)   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of
business of the licensee named in the license.
   (B)   If the licensee has no fixed place of business, the licensee must keep
the same wherever the business is being operated and where it can be inspected
at any time by the proper town official.
(Prior Code, § 2-4017) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.08  NO ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made, in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business before
the end of the period for which the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 2-4018)
§ 110.09  SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL PRIVILEGE LICENSES.
   (A)   A current schedule of privilege license taxes shall be maintained on
file in the office of the Town Clerk, as adopted by the Board.
   (B)   This schedule is hereby incorporated by reference as though set forth
fully herein.
( Prior Code, § 2-4019)
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Sunday sales
   
111.02   Applicability
§ 111.01  SUNDAY SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, establishment or corporation to
sell beer and/or wine within the corporate limits of the town from 1:00 a.m. on
each Sunday until 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
(Prior Code, § 6-1061) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply to the sale of beer and wine on Sundays in
those establishments which have a brown-bagging permit issued under G.S. § 18B-
1001.
(Prior Code, § 6-1062)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 18B-301
CHAPTER 112:  TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Insurance required
Certificate of Convenience and Necessity
   
112.15   Unlawful to operate without certificate
   
112.16   Application required
   
112.17   Board issues certificates
   
112.18   Duration of certificate
   
112.19   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
112.20   Hearing; notices
   
112.21   Burden of proof
   
112.22   Failure to begin operations
   
112.23   Transfer
   
112.24   Revocation of certificate
   
112.25   Substitution of vehicles
   
112.26   One certificate limit
License; Permit
   
112.40   License
   
112.41   License revoked
   
112.42   Permit suspended
   
112.43   Permit denied
   
112.44   Permit revoked
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS.  Both singular and plural, and shall also mean and include PERSONS,
individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and associations.
   TAXICAB.  Any motor vehicle seating six or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between the points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, and shall not
include motor vehicles or motor vehicle carriers as defined in G.S. § 62-3(17)
(Prior Code, § 6-1001)
§ 112.02  INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate any car,
bus, or taxicab for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, without first
furnishing proof to the town that the car, taxicab or bus or its owner has a
personal and property damage or a liability insurance policy in some reliable
company doing business in the state, in an amount of $10,000 to $20,000 or, in
lieu thereof, can post a justified bond in the sum of $11,000.
(Prior Code, § 6-1020)  (Ord. passed 1-2-1950)
Penalty, see § 112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to regulate taxicabs, see G.S. § 160A-304
CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 112.15  UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the town without first having applied for and secured from the Board
a certificate of convenience and necessity as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 6-1002) 
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.16  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
town shall file on forms supplied by the Town Clerk an application for a
certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Prior Code, § 6-1003) 
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.17  BOARD ISSUES CERTIFICATES.
   The Board shall have power and it will be its duty to order certain
certificates issued or refuse to issue certain certificates or to issue
certificates for the partial exercise of the rights granted only to the
certificate under the terms and conditions as in its judgment the public
convenience and necessity may require.
(Prior Code, § 6-1004)
§ 112.18  DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the town for the
operation of taxicabs within the town subject to the provisions of this chapter
for one year, unless a shorter period of time is specified in the certificate.
   (B)   Applications for renewal shall be filed annually and hearings
conducted as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-1005)
§ 112.19  DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the franchising of the taxicab or taxicabs, the Board shall, among other
things, take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates, if required by the Board to be
charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   The other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the Board, or a committee thereof,
shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts, if it so desires,
subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of Police or any other
officer or employee of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1006)
§ 112.20  HEARING; NOTICES.
   (A)   Each application for certificate of convenience and necessity shall be
scheduled for a hearing not later than 30 days after the same is filed, and the
applicant shall be notified by the Clerk by mail to the business address set
forth in the application of the date and time of the hearing, the notification
to be sent at least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The Clerk shall also, within the same time, notify all persons who at
the time hold certificates of convenience and necessity for the operation of
taxicabs within the municipality, of the date and time for the hearing and the
name of the applicant.
   (C)   In addition, the Board shall have the power to have published at least
once in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the
hearing, a notice setting forth the name of the applicant and the date and time
of hearing, the cost of the publication to be paid by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6-1007)
§ 112.21  BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab or
taxicabs specified in his or her application, and all other facts required for
the granting of a certificate.
(Prior Code, § 6-1008)
§ 112.22  FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant, and the applicant shall fail,
in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations
within 60 days after the date of the certificate, then the certificate shall
become null and void, and no refund of any amount paid by the applicant will be
made by the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1009)
§ 112.23  TRANSFER.
   (A)   A certificate is not transferable without the consent and approval of
the Board.
   (B)   Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the same
manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and necessity.
   (C)   The proceedings upon the application for a transfer shall be the same
as those prescribed for the issuance of a certificate, except that the question
of public convenience and necessity need not be proved.
   (D)   No certificate will be issued to any applicant unless the applicant be
the holder in due course and for value of the title to the taxicab, and the
holder of the certificate only shall be permitted to operate the taxicab, and
the applicant shall not be allowed to engage the services of any person to
operate his or her taxicab for him or her or in his or her stead at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-1010) 
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.24  REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   The Board may at any time after a public hearing revoke any certificate
issued by authority of this chapter for any one, or more, of the following
causes:
   (A)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in a
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
   (B)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
   (C)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law:
bodily injury in the amount of $30,000, $60,000 for each accident and $25,000
for damage;
   (D)   Failure to pay to the town taxes or license fees of $15 imposed upon
the taxicabs;
   (E)   Failure to report accidents; or
   (F)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether the
ordinances and laws be now in force or hereafter enacted into ordinances and
into laws.
(Prior Code, § 6-1011)
§ 112.25  SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by proper
endorsement thereon by the Clerk, substitute another vehicle, or other vehicles
for the vehicle or vehicles for which the certificate was granted.
   (B)   In the above instance, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be
transferred to the substitute vehicle or vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6-1012)
§ 112.26  ONE CERTIFICATE LIMIT.
   The Board reserves the right to issue only one certificate to any one
person, and the person holding the certificate shall be required to operate his
or her taxicab himself or herself and shall have no power or authority by
virtue of his or her certificate to delegate the operation of the taxicab to
any person without permission of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-1013) 
Penalty, see § 112.99
LICENSE; PERMIT
§ 112.40  LICENSE.
   The license of any taxicab driver shall be revoked for two years by the
Board upon conviction of any of the following offenses:
   (A)   Driving while under the influence of intoxicating beverages or
narcotics or drugs;
   (B)   Aiding or abetting in prostitution;
   (C)   The sale of intoxicating liquors, beverages, or drugs;
   (D)   The conviction of any charge classed as a felony under the laws of the
state; or
   (E)   The obtaining of a taxicab driver's license under false pretenses.
(Prior Code, § 6-1014)
§ 112.41  LICENSE REVOKED.
   The driver's license or permit of any taxicab driver shall be revoked by the
Board for a period of 30 days upon the first conviction and for a period of six
months upon the second conviction and permanently upon the third conviction of
the following offenses:
   (A)   Speeding;
   (B)   Reckless driving;
   (C)   Failure to observe stop signs; or
   (D)   Disorderly conduct, drunkenness, fighting, cursing, and using vile and
vulgar language.
(Prior Code, § 6-1015)
§ 112.42  PERMIT SUSPENDED.
   (A)   Upon the second conviction of any of the following charges, the Chief
of Police of the town is hereby directed without further authority from the
Board to take up the driver's permit or license for a period of at least 15
days.
   (B)   The offenses herein referred to are:
      (1)   For parking in a no parking zone;
      (2)   For blocking any entrance or exit or any part of an alley;
      (3)   For blocking an intersection; or
      (4)   Double parking.
   (C)   For the third conviction of any of the above offenses the Chief of
Police is hereby authorized and directed to take up the driver's permit or
license for a period of six months.
(Prior Code, § 6-1016)
§ 112.43  PERMIT DENIED.
   When the Chief of Police is satisfied that any applicant has been guilty of
violating any of the offenses in §§
112.41 and
112.42, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to deny the applicant a
permit or license to drive a taxicab without bringing the matter to the
attention of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-1017)
§ 112.44  PERMIT REVOKED.
   The driver's permit or license of any taxicab driver shall be revoked by the
Board for six months upon the first conviction and permanently upon the second
conviction of the offense of possession or transportation by the taxicab driver
in the taxicab, of tax-paid or non-tax-paid whiskey, beer or wine.
(Prior Code, § 6-1018)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who or which shall violate any
provisions of this chapter pertaining to the operation of taxicabs or motor
vehicles for hire shall upon conviction pay a fine of $50 for each offense or
violation, and each day the offense occurs shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (B)   In addition, the court shall have the power to revoke the license or
permit of the driver.
(Prior Code, § 6-1019)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
113.01   Permit required
   
113.02   Application of provisions
   
113.03   Application; contents
   
113.04   Town to issue permits
   
113.05   Failure to secure proper permit
   
113.06   Exceptions
 
   
113.98   Violation
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The solicitation of contributions from the public for any charitable or
eleemosynary purpose, and the selling and peddling of merchandise or other
items by itinerant merchants, salespersons, promoters and peddlers is
prohibited without first having obtained a permit from the Town of Warsaw.
(Prior Code, § 6-1051)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.02  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to independent peddlers,
itinerant merchants, salespersons, solicitors or any other group or
organization.
(Prior Code, § 6-1052)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
§ 113.03  APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Any person applying for a permit shall provide the Town Clerk with his or
her name, address, the name of any group or organization whom he or she
represents, the type of businesses engaged in, people whom he or she wishes to
solicit from or peddle items of merchandise to, and the purpose of any
solicitation or selling of merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-1055)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.04  TOWN TO ISSUE PERMITS.
   It shall be within the sole discretion and determination of the Town Clerk
as to whether or not, after obtaining all the information required, a permit
shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-1056)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
§ 113.05  FAILURE TO SECURE PROPER PERMIT.
   Any person in obtaining a permit, who fails and/or refuses to give all
information requested, or who gives false or incorrect information requested by
the Town Clerk for the purpose of obtaining a permit, and who later solicits or
sells merchandise within the corporate limits shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1057)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.06  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any retail or wholesale
establishment within the town, nor to any other individual, firm, or
corporation who has acquired a privilege license for the purpose of conducting
business within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1058)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for a municipality to regulate solicitations, see G.S. § 160A-178
§ 113.98  VIOLATION.
   Any person knowingly, intentionally, willfully or wantonly violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-1053)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1974)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, upon conviction of violating the provisions of this chapter,
shall be subject to the penalty as set out in §
10.99
CHAPTER 114:  POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Application for license
   
114.03   Conditions when license not issued
   
114.04   Form and content of license
   
114.05   Certain prohibitions to be observed by licensee and employees
   
114.06   Rules for operation of pool rooms
   
114.07   Licensee responsible
   
114.08   Revocation of licenses
§ 114.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate any pool or billiard table,
bowling alley, or other table or alley for any game or play for which a charge
is made, either directly or indirectly, unless he or she shall first have
secured a license from the Board to do so.
   (B)   The license shall expire on June 30 each year and shall not be
transferable.
(Prior Code § 6-1041) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for the license shall be made upon forms provided by the Clerk
and shall contain all information necessary for the Board to act intelligently
upon the applications.
(Prior Code § 6-1042) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.03  CONDITIONS WHEN LICENSE NOT ISSUED.
   The Board shall not issue the license to any person:
   (A)   Who has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs;
   (B)   Who is not a citizen and resident of the state;
   (C)   Who is of immoral character; or
   (D)   Who is a habitual user of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code § 6-1043)
§ 114.04  FORM AND CONTENT OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the premises for
which it is issued, the number of tables or alleys to be operated thereunder,
the name of the owner or operator, and the dates upon which the license begins
and shall expire.  The license shall be posted in a prominent place on the
premises at all times.
(Prior Code § 6-1044) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.05  CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES.
   Licensees under this chapter shall not, and neither shall their employees:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
nor the sale or use of any racing, football, or other parlay cards or gambling
boards;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly; or permit
any profane, obscene, or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs to be sold
or kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
   (D)   Suffer or permit any person under the age of 16 years to enter or
remain upon the licensed premises, unless the person be accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian;
   (E)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; or
   (F)   Suffer or permit any keeley board, keno board, or any other board or
device to be attached to or placed upon any pool or billiard tables.
(Prior Code § 6-1045)
§ 114.06  RULES FOR OPERATION OF POOL ROOMS.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of pool rooms within
the town.
   (A)   All pool rooms shall close at 1:00 a.m. each morning, Monday through
Friday and 12:00 a.m. on Saturdays and no person other than the owner, operator
or employees shall be permitted on the premises from that hour until 7:00 a.m.
the following morning.
   (B)   No play on any table shall be allowed during the times when pool rooms
are required by this chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   Pool rooms shall remain closed on Sundays.
   (D)   All pool rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building
facing any street, so that a clear view inside may be had from the street.
   (E)   (1)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or other obstructions
shall be placed between the entrance to the room where pool is played and the
rear wall of the room.
      (2)   A clear view of the interior from the entrance to the rear of the
room must be maintained at all times.
   (F)   (1)   No partitions forming rooms, stalls, or other enclosures where
the public congregate shall be permitted;
      (2)   Provided, this shall not be construed so as to prohibit the
maintenance of closets used exclusively for storage purposes or of toilets.
   (G)   There shall not be permitted or maintained any open or secret
connections through doors, windows, trap doors, hidden doors, panels,
stairways, or other devices with any place where gambling is conducted or where
persons meet or congregate for immoral purposes.
(Prior Code § 6-1046) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.07  LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE.
   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of the licensee in the
conduct of the business shall be deemed to be the acts and conduct of the
licensee.
(Prior Code § 6-1047)
§ 114.08  REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A second conviction of a licensee, or his or her agent or employee,
for any violation of any provision of this chapter shall by operation of law
constitute an automatic revocation of the license of the licensee.
   (B)   In addition, the Board may at any time, for cause, and after a
hearing, of which the licensee shall be given as much reasonable notice as the
Board may direct, revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code § 6-1048)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation and licensing of businesses, trades and the like, see G.S. §
160A-194
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct; in general
   
130.02   House of ill fame
   
130.03   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.04   Public drunkenness
   
130.05   Drinking in public
   
130.06   Firearms regulated
   
130.07   Posting bills; other advertising
   
130.08   Fire bombs prohibited
   
130.09   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT; IN GENERAL.
   No occupant of any house whether residence or business shall permit the same
to be kept in an indecent and offensive or disorderly manner or permit loafers
or idle persons to congregate therein or in front of the same to the annoyance
of persons passing by or living in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 8-1001) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02  HOUSE OF ILL FAME.
   (A)   No person shall keep a house or other place of ill fame in the town
and no person shall knowingly rent any house to be used as a house of ill fame.
   (B)   All adult persons living in the house shall be considered as keepers
thereof and be subject to the penalties of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1002) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, see G.S. §§ 14-203et seq.
§ 130.03  PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud and boisterous language so
as to become a nuisance or use any form of profanity or indecent language on
the street or in a gathering or audience or assembly, or in any public place
whatsoever, or to indecently expose themselves within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-1003) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Use of profanity, see G.S. § 14-197
§ 130.04  PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to be on or upon any public
street or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 8-1004) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions G.S. §§ 14-443 et seq.
§ 130.05  DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall consume, serve, or drink wine, beer, whiskey, or alcoholic
beverages of any kind on the public streets, boulevards, alleys, or in public
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 8-1005) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06  FIREARMS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm of any type
within the corporate limits except a peace officer in the performance of his or
her duty.
(Prior Code, § 8-6003) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
§ 130.07  POSTING BILLS; OTHER ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post or upon any property, owned by any person, firm or
corporation, or owned by the town, any printed, written, painted or other
advertisement, bill, notice, sign or poster, without first having obtained the
written permission of the owner of the property and having received a permit
from the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-6004) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.08  FIRE BOMBS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         FIRE BOMB.  Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon
being propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
         MOLOTOV COCKTAIL.  Any breakable container or any container which is
designed in a manner that upon being propelled it will at impact empty its
contents, which is filled with an inflammable fluid or substance, and which is
fitted with a fuse or wick.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to manufacture,
possess, transport or use any Molotov cocktail or other fire bomb.
      (3)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to
possess all the items or materials needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or
other fire bombs, other than on his, her or their premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-6005)
         (b)   The provisions of this section shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other ordinance or General Statute of North Carolina on this
subject.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the town, shall be and is are hereby authorized
to enforce the preceding divisions for periods of time as he or she shall deem
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-6006) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.09  CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be found, without a useful purpose,
loitering on the public streets of the town, after the hour of 1:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 8-6007)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any minor violating the provisions of §
130.09 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and the violation shall be punishable
as set out in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-6007)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
         
152.   MIGRANT HOUSING
         
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope of chapter and codes
   
150.02   Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.04   Heating Code adopted
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.06   Residential Building Code adopted
   
150.07   Amendments to codes
   
150.08   Compliance with codes
   
150.09   Copies of codes filed with Town Clerk
Inspection Department
   
150.20   Organization
   
150.21   General duties
   
150.22   Conflicts of interest
   
150.23   Reports and records
   
150.24   Inspection procedure
   
150.25   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
150.26   Powers of inspection officials
Enforcement
   
150.40   Registration of contractors
   
150.41   Bond required of contractors
   
150.42   Permits required
   
150.43   Application for permit
   
150.44   Plans and specifications
   
150.45   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
150.46   Issuance of permit
   
150.47   Revocation of permits
   
150.48   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
150.49   Changes in work
   
150.50   Permit fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1001)
§ 150.02  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina State Building Code,
(Volume I, General Construction), as adopted by the North Carolina Building
Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference fully as though set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1002)
§ 150.03  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1003)
§ 150.04  HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina Heating Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume III, Heating) as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1004)
§ 150.05  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1967, or later edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1005)
§ 150.06  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1968, or later edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential
Building Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I-B, Residential), as
adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1006)
§ 150.07  AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Town Administrative Clerk-Treasurer or Building Inspector as
provided in §
150.09.
(Prior Code, § 9-1007)
§ 150.08  COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and other
provisions of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General
Construction, Volume I or the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I-B,
Residential, whichever is applicable, or of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(Prior Code, § 9-1008) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.09  COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official
copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk or Building Inspector.
   (B)   The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 9-1009)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.20  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Inspection Department of the town shall consist of a Building
Inspector, and may also include a Plumbing Inspector, a Heating and Air
Conditioning Inspector, an Electrical Inspector, and the other inspectors or
deputy or assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the Town Board.
   (B)   The Town Board may in its discretion designate a department head.
(Prior Code, § 9-1021)
§ 150.21  GENERAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein, and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met.
(Prior Code, § 9-1022)
§ 150.22  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be
financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for
the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building or any part thereof,
or in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall engage in
any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interests of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1023) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.23  REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Inspection Department, and each inspector, shall keep complete,
permanent and accurate records in convenient form of all applications received,
permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and all other work and
activities of the Inspection Department.
   (B)   Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Town Board and to other
agencies, as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-1024) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.24  INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections.  The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings
and structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued
as often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this
chapter and the appropriate codes.
      (1)   When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector, materials and
assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or
inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations;
provided, no approval shall be based upon reports of the organizations unless
the same are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of the
organization.
      (2)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the
Inspection Department and the appropriate inspector at each of the following
stages of construction so that approval may be given before work is continued:
         (a)   Foundation inspection.
            1.   To be made after trenches are excavated and the necessary
reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is placed.
            2.   Drilled footings, piles, and similar types of foundations
shall be inspected as installed.
         (b)   Framing inspection.
            1.   To be made after all structural framing is in place and all
roughing in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been installed, after
all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed, but before any of
the structure is enclosed or covered.
            2.   Poured in place concrete structural elements shall be
inspected before each pour of any structural member.
         (c)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to
be protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
         (d)   Final inspection.  To be made after building or structure has
all doors hung, fixtures set, and is ready for occupancy, but before the
building is occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspection.
      (1)   Request for inspections may be made to the Office of the Inspection
Department or to the appropriate inspector.
      (2)   The Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as
practicable after request is made therefor, provided the work is ready for
inspection at the time the request is made.
      (3)   Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the inspector.
      (4)   No work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed
condition ready for inspection.
      (5)   All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection.
      (6)   Approval or rejection of the work shall be furnished by the
appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the building or given
to the permit holder or his or her agent.
      (7)   Failure to call for inspections or proceeding without approval at
each stage of construction shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines.
      (1)   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or
structure on the line of any street, alley, or other public place, he or she
shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley, or other public place,
adjacent to the property upon which the building or structure is to be erected
before proceeding with construction of the building or structure.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley, or other public place.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition
or enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of
occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Inspection Department has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor.
      (2)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or
portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion
and occupancy of the entire building.
      (3)   Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made by the owner
or his or her agent after all final inspections have been made for new
buildings, or, in the case of existing buildings, after supplying the
information and data necessary to determine compliance with this chapter, the
appropriate regulatory codes and the zoning ordinance for the occupancy
intended.
      (4)   The Inspection Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy
when, after examination and inspection, it is found that the building in all
respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter, the regulatory codes, and
the zoning ordinance for the occupancy intended.
(Prior Code, § 9-1025) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.25  OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(Prior Code, § 9-1026)
§ 150.26  POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority.  Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed
to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry.  With an appropriate warrant or permission from the
owner or occupant, inspectors shall have the right of entry on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the applicable regulatory codes.
   (C)   Stop orders.
      (1)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a hazardous
manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other town
ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in a manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector may
order the work to be immediately stopped.
      (2)   The order shall be in writing to the owner of the property or to
his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the reasons
therefor and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1027)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.40  REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating and air conditioning contractor, or electrical contractor
within the town shall register at the office of the Inspection Department,
giving name and place of business.
(Prior Code, § 9-1031) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.41  BOND REQUIRED OF CONTRACTORS.
   Every person required to register at the office of the Inspection Department
under §
150.40 may be required to give a good and sufficient bond to be approved by the
town conditioned upon faithful performance of duty in doing any work which he
or she may have contracted to do, and to indemnify the town against loss in any
manner whatsoever for any unskillful or negligent work or conduct in the
performance of the duties imposed by the provisions of this chapter or any
regulatory code herein adopted, or any damage to any utility lines, streets, or
sidewalks in the town, or for the use of defective or improper material in the
work, or for the payment of any inspection or other fees required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1032) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.42  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit.
      (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit therefor from
the Building Inspector; provided, however, that no building permit shall be
required for work the total cost of which does not exceed $100 and which does
not involve any change of the structural parts or the stairways, elevators,
fire escapes or other means of egress of the building or the structure in
question.
      (2)   County Board of Health approval of a septic tank is required where
the sewage system cannot be connected to the town sewer.
      (3)   In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure, a
good and sufficient bond may be required to be posted by the property owner or
by his or her contractor at the time of application for a permit, to insure
complete removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris.
      (4)   Failure on the part of the property owner or his or her contractor
to completely demolish, remove, and clear the premises, after 30-days' notice
by the Building Inspector, shall be cause for forfeiture of the bond.
   (B)   Plumbing permit.  No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the Plumbing Inspector; provided, however, no
permit shall be required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of
a trap to an installed system of plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not
disrupt the original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems.
   (C)   Heating and air conditioning permit.  No person shall commence or
proceed with the installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any
heating or cooling equipment system without a written permit from the Heating
and Air Conditioning Inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required
for minor repairs or minor burner services or filter replacements of warm air
furnaces or cooling systems.
   (D)   Electrical permit.  No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any electrical
wiring, devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from
the Electrical Inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required for
minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of
portable devices to suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed;
provided, further, no permit shall be required for the installation,
alteration, or repair of the electrical wiring, devices, appliances, and
equipment installed by or for an electrical public utility corporation in the
generation, transmission, distribution, or metering of electrical energy.
(Prior Code, § 9-1033) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.43  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter, and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department.
   (B)   The application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative, and, in
addition to the other information as may be required by the appropriate
inspector to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for
should be issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence, and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence, and business of authorized representative or
agent, if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for the contractors, if such be required for the work involved in the
permit for which application is made.
(Prior Code, § 9-1034) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.44  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
a permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in
excess of $45,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and specifications
together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that the work
proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate
regulatory codes.
   (C)   Where plans and specifications are required, a copy of the same shall
be kept at the work until all authorized operations have been completed and
approved by the appropriate inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-1035) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Plans and specifications for public buildings, see G.S. § 133-1.1
§ 150.45  LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure, the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $45,000, unless the plans bear the North Carolina seal of a
registered architect or a registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provisions of the General Statutes of North Carolina or of
any ordinance require that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of
any kind, no permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed
by the licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications
have been provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-1036) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Architects, see G.S. § 83A-1 through 83A-15
   Contractors, see G.S. § 87-1
§ 150.46  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as hereinafter
provided in §
150.50.
(Prior Code, § 9-1037)
§ 150.47  REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the
revocation.
   (B)   Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1038)
§ 150.48  TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six
months after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not
been commenced.
   (B)   If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire.
   (C)   No work authorized by any permit which has expired shall thereafter be
performed until a new permit therefor has been secured.
(Prior Code, § 9-1039) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.49  CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-1040) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.50  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all sub-contracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the town as determined by the appropriate inspector or inspectors.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Building permit fees (see schedule of fees in the office of the
Building Inspector);
      (2)   Plumbing permit fees (see schedule of fees in the office of the
Plumbing Inspector);
      (3)   Heating and air conditioning permit fees (see schedule of fees in
the office of the Heating and Air Conditioning Inspector); and
      (4)   Electrical permit fees (see schedule of fees in the office of the
Electrical Inspector).
(Prior Code, § 9-1041)
CHAPTER 151:  MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Finding; purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
Minimum Standards; Responsibilities of Owners and Occupants
   
151.15   Fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.16   Structural condition
   
151.17   Basic equipment and facilities
   
151.18   Ventilation
   
151.19   Space, use and location
   
151.20   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.21   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.22   Rooming houses; exceptions
   
151.23   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
Administration; Enforcement
   
151.35   Duties of Building Inspector
   
151.36   Powers of Building Inspector
   
151.37   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.38   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.39   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.40   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
151.41   Costs a lien on premises
   
151.42   Alternative remedies
   
151.43   Housing Appeals Board
   
151.44   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
151.45   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
151.98   Violations
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-441 et seq., it is the purpose of this
chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized
by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Prior Code, § 9-1051)
§ 151.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASEMENT.  A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR.  A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or
wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED.  A dwelling which is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED.  A dwelling which is unfit for human habitation and cannot
be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by a  finding of the Inspector.
      DWELLING.  Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary housing
as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
      DWELLING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
      GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION.  The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
      INSPECTOR.  A Building Inspector of the town or any agent of the
Inspector who is authorized by the Inspector.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING.  Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT.  Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER.  Any person who alone, or jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.  Any such
person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
      PLUMBING.  All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: Gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  The Town Housing Authority or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the Town of Warsaw or
Duplin County or the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire, building
regulations or other activities concerning dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE.  Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
unit, used or intended to be used for living and sleep, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH.  Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery, and dust.
      SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING.  Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.  Conditions which exist in a dwelling which
violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness
or one or more of the requirements established by this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the words dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming
unit, premises are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they
were followed by the words or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1052)
MINIMUM STANDARDS; RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 151.15  FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.16 through
151.21 of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.16 through
151.21.
(Prior Code, § 9-1053) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.16  STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which
might admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in a condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Prior Code, § 9-1054) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.17  BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   (a)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold
water and hot water.
         (b)   All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the Town Plumbing
Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
      (4)   (a)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling unit and be accessible to the occupants of the same.
         (b)   The water closet and tub or shower shall be located in a room or
rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system.  Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have
facilities for providing heat in accordance with either division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) below.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems.  Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which
it is connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured as a point three
feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities.  Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   (a)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric
lights and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least
two floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner
as determined by the Town Electrical Code.
         (b)   There shall be installed in every bathroom, water closet room,
laundry room and furnace room, at least one supplied ceiling, or wall-type
electric light fixture.
         (c)   In the event wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in
any habitable room, then each such habitable room shall contain at least three
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multi-dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code (Volume IV of the State Building
Code).
(Prior Code, § 9-1055) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.18  VENTILATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors.
      (2)   The minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every
habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of the room.
      (3)   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or any
room and the light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
      (4)   Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the
top of the room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately ventilate the
room.
      (2)   The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size of minimum skylight-type
window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms.  Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Prior Code, § 9-1056) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.19  SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes.  Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building
Code (Volume I-B of the State Building Code).
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height.  At least one half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six
inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation.
      (1)   Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room
area.  However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling unit may count
for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area.
      (2)   The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is
less than four and one half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor
area computing the total area of the room to determine maximum permissible
occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar.  No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements.  No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area, and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well, or access way.
(Prior Code, § 9-1057) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.20  SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs.
      (1)   Every foundation wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall be
substantially weather tight and rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; shall be capable of affording privacy; shall be safe to use
and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other
protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or the
weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings.  Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors.  Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door, and hatchway shall be substantially weather tight, watertight, and rodent
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances.  Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors.  Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities.  Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage.  Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain
thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds.  Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress.  Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code (Volume I-B of the
State Building Code).
(Prior Code, § 9-1058) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.21  CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens.  In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall have supplied and installed screens and a self-closing
device; and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with screens
installed.
   (B)   Rodent control.  Every basement or cellar window used or intended to
be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation.
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
      (2)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain
a dwelling in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      (3)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more dwelling units in any
dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal.  Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of the
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal.  Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the
structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved
outside garbage can as required by town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-1059) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, see
Ch. 50
   Nuisances and weeds, see Title IX
§ 151.22  ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions:
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities.
      (1)   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house
wherever the facilities are shared.
      (2)   All the facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall be not more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the
facilities.
      (3)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times.
      (4)   The required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions.  The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
he or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the
entire premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming
house is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities.  Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory
basin, and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1060) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.23  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas.  Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness.  Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage.
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
the supplied storage facilities.
      (2)   In all cases the owner shall be responsible for the availability of
rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures.  Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of the same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1061) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.35  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings
and dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings
and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of
carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the dwellings and
dwelling units;
      (2)   To take action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed; and
   (D)   To perform the other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1062)
§ 151.36  POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise the powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with law and in
the manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents, and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1063)
§ 151.37  INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to
the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purposes of the inspection, examination, and survey.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or
dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making the repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1064)
§ 151.38  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner
of and parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating
the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
      (3)   Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to the dwelling.
      (4)   Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard.
      (5)   The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall
not be controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.  After the notice and hearing, the Inspector
shall state in writing his or her determination whether the dwelling or
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is
deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (1)   (a)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling
unit is deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of
fact in support of the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair,
alter and improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of
time, not to exceed 90 days.
         (b)   The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations and
improvements have been made.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter or else vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy.  If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter, or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner
of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector
to vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the Board at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the superior court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy.  After failure of an owner of a deteriorated
dwelling or dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an
order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief
has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1)
above, the Inspector shall submit to the Town Board an ordinance ordering the
Inspector to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered,
improved, or vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as provided in the
original order of the Inspector, and pending the removal or demolition, to
placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443 and §
151.40 of this chapter.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   In appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby.
      (2)   Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken within ten days from
the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall be taken by
filing with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based.
      (3)   Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made.
      (4)   When appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed.
      (5)   When any appeal is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the
person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending
the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies
to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall not be
suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due cause
shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the Inspector, by the
Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446
(f) and division (E) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time.
         (b)   Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
         (c)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make the decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector.
         (d)   The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any
case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (7)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner.  Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(Prior Code, § 9-1065)
§ 151.39  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make
an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the
person may be made by publishing the same once each week for two successive
weeks in a newspaper, circulating in the town.
   (B)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 9-1066)
§ 151.40  IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   (1)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to
comply with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the Town Board of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him or her to do so, as provided by §
151.38(C) of this chapter and G.S. § 160A-443(5), the Inspector shall proceed
to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, or improved to
comply with the minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter or to
be vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance
of the Town Board and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the
dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with the following words: This building is
unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful.
      (2)   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index as provided by G.S. § 160A-
443(5).
(Prior Code, § 9-1067)
§ 151.41  COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6)(g), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations, or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
150.07 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred.
   (B)   The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. § 160A-432.
(Prior Code, § 9-1068)
Statutory reference:
   Collection of lien similar to special assessment, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 et
seq.
§ 151.42  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
151.44; and
   (B)   The enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 9-1069)
§ 151.43  HOUSING APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Housing Appeals Board to which appeals may
be taken from decisions or orders of the Inspector, as provided by section §
151.38(D).
   (B)   The Board shall consist of five members to serve for three-year
staggered terms.  The Board shall have the power to elect its own officers, to
fix the times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure
and to adopt other rules and regulations for the proper discharge of its
duties.
   (C)   The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
151.38(D) and shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 9-1070)
§ 151.44  ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the
Inspector pursuant to §
151.38(D) shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the times
and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any other
rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of its
duties.
   (C)   The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
151.38(D) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 9-1071)
§ 151.45  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-1072)
§ 151.98  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to vacate
and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly
made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order, and
each day that any failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.38, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-1073) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 9-1073)
CHAPTER 152:  MIGRANT HOUSING
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Migrant housing prohibited
   
152.03   Nonconforming uses
   
152.04   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CREW LEADER.  The individual who negotiates or manages the contract for
employment of migrants or is recognized by the migrants as the leader.
      MIGRANT.  An agricultural worker, including a person who works in food
processing operations and a worker's dependents who travel and stay overnight
in response to demand for seasonal agricultural labor.
      MIGRANT HOUSING.  One or more buildings or structures, tents, trailers or
vehicles, together with the appurtenant land, that are established, operated or
used as living quarters for 13 or more migrants.
   (B)   (1)   All words used in the present tense shall include the future
tense.
      (2)   All words in the singular number shall include the plural number
and all words in the plural number shall include the singular number unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise.
      (3)   The words used for shall include the meaning designated for.
      (4)   The word structure shall include the word building.
      (5)   The word lot shall include the words plot and tract and the word
shall is mandatory.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
§ 152.02  MIGRANT HOUSING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, establish, occupy or cause to be occupied any migrant
housing within the corporate limits or within the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.03  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   (1)   The lawful use of migrant housing existing at the time of the
passage of this chapter shall not be effected by this chapter although the use
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the nonconforming migrant housing is removed or the
nonconforming use of the building structure, tent, trailer or vehicle, together
with the appurtenant land is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding 90
days, every future use of the premises shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, and therefore, shall be prohibited.
   (B)   The lawful use of land existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter, although the use does not conform to the provisions of this chapter,
shall not be effected by this chapter; provided, however, that no such
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor shall any nonconforming
use be extended to occupy greater area of land than that occupied by the use at
the time of the passage of this chapter.  If the nonconforming use is
discontinued for a continuous period exceeding 90 days, any future use of the
land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, and,
therefore, shall be prohibited.
   (C)   (1)   It is acknowledged that G.S. §§ 95-222 through 95-229 requires a
written application for permit for migrant housing to be made at the local
health department having jurisdiction over the area which the proposed housing
is to be located.
      (2)   Any and all migrant housing properly permitted under G.S.§§ 95-222
through 95.229, existing at the time of the passage of this chapter, shall not
be effected by this chapter until the time as the natural expiration of the
permit issued by the local health department or until the time as the permit is
revoked, whichever event shall occur first.
      (3)   Upon the natural expiration of the permit for existing migrant
housing or upon an earlier revocation of the permit, every future use of the
premises as migrant housing shall be prohibited within the corporate limits or
the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by any remedy provided by G.S. §§ 160A-175 or
160A-365.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the provisions of this
chapter, shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not exceeding $50 or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   Each day that violation continues to exist shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's zoning ordinance, adopted by the town on April 1990, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved for future legislation]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite          Code Section
                   33.09;
                   36.99;
                   51.99;
                   70.99;
14-4               90.99;
                   94.21;
                   96.99;
                   151.42;
                   151.99
14-4(a)            10.99
14-197             130.03
14-203 et seq.     130.02
14-443 et seq.     130.04
18B-301            111.02
18B-1001           111.02
20-97              70.04
20-157             34.08
20-161             71.67
44A-1(1)           71.67
62-3(17)           112.01
83A-1–83A-15     150.45
87-1               150.45
95-222–95-229    152.03
133-1.1            150.44
159-7 et seq.      31.02
159-28             35.01
160A-63            31.22
160A-67            31.01
160A-69            31.01
160A-71            31.16
160A-77            31.02
160A-79            31.35
160A-101           30.01
160A-102           30.01
160A-146           31.15
160A-147 et seq.   30.01;
                   31.15
160A-148           31.03
160A-171           31.02
160A-174           31.35
160A-175           10.99;
                   152.04
160A-178           113.06
160A-184           94.01
160A-185           50.10
160A-186           90.08
160A-187           90.08
160A-189           130.06
160A-193           94.20;
                   94.21
160A-194           114.08
160A-211           110.02
160A-216 et seq.   151.41
160A-216–160A-23852.053
160A-281           33.01
160A-282           33.34
160A-286           33.10
                   34.01–
160A-291 et seq.   34.11;
                   34.99
160A-291           34.08
160A-304           112.02
160A-311           51.01
160A-314           51.36
160A-317           51.15
160A-349.1 et seq. 32.39
                   32.15;
160A-361           32.16;
                   31.19
160A-362           32.16
160A-365           152.04
160A-432           151.41
160A-435           34.10
160A-436           34.10
160A-441 et seq.   151.01
160A-441           151.01
160A-443           151.38
160A-443(5)        151.40
160A-444           151.01
160A-446(f)        151.38
160A-446(g)        151.38
160A-446(6)(g)     151.41
                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2004 Code Section
Prior Code 2004 Code Section
106        Ch. 75, Sched. I
107        Ch. 75, Sched. II
108        Ch. 75, Sched. III
113        Ch. 75, Sched. IV
117        Ch. 75. Sched. IV
2-1001     31.15
2-1011     31.16
2-1012     31.17
2-1013     31.18
2-1014     31.19
2-1015     31.20
2-1016     31.21
2-1017     31.22
2-1021     31.35
2-1022     31.36
2-1023     31.37
2-1024     31.38
2-2001     31.01
2-2002     31.02
2-3001     32.01
2-3002     32.02
2-4001     35.01
2-4002     35.02
2-4011     110.01
2-4012     110.02
2-4013     110.03
2-4014     110.04
2-4015     110.04
2-4016     110.06
2-4017     110.07
2-4018     110.08
2-4019     110.09
2-7001     32.15
2-7002     32.16
2-7003     32.17
2-7004     32.18
2-7005     32.19
2-7006     32.19
2-7007     32.19
2-7051     32.35
2-7052     32.36
2-7053     32.37
3-1001     33.01
3-1002     33.02
3-1003     33.03
3-1004     33.04
3-1005     33.05
3-1007     33.06
3-1008     33.07
3-1009     33.08
3-1010     33.09
3-1011     33.10
3-1012     33.11
3-1013     33.11
3-1014     33.12
3-1015     33.13
3-1016     33.14
3-1017     33.15
3-1018     33.16
3-1019     33.17
3-1031     33.30
3-1032     33.31
3-1033     33.32
3-1034     33.33
3-1035     33.34
3-1036     33.34
3-2001     34.01
3-2002     34.02
3-2003     34.03
3-2004     34.04
3-2005     34.05
3-2006     34.06
3-2007     34.07
3-2008     34.08;
           34.99
3-2009     34.09
3-2011     91.01
3-2021     34.10
3-2022     34.11
3-3001     36.01
3-3002     36.02
3-3003     36.99
4-1001     93.01
4-1002     93.01
4-1003     93.01
4-1004     93.02
4-1005     93.03
4-1006     93.04
4-1007     93.05
4-1008     93.06
4-1009     93.07
4-1010     93.08
4-1011     93.09
4-1021     93.10
4-2001     50.01
4-2002     50.02
4-2003     50.03
4-2004     50.04
4-2005     50.05
4-2006     50.06
4-2007     50.07
4-2008     50.08
4-2009     50.09
4-2010     50.10
5-1001     51.01
5-1002     51.15
5-1003     51.15
5-1004     51.16
5-1005     51.35
5-1006     51.17
5-1007     51.18
5-1008     51.02
5-1009     51.19
5-1010     51.19
5-1011     51.20
5-1012     51.21
5-1013     51.21
5-1014     51.22
5-1015     51.23
5-1016     51.24
5-1017     51.36
5-1018     51.37
5-1019     51.38
5-1020     51.03
5-1021     51.25;
           51.99
5-1022     51.15;
           51.99
6-1001     112.01
6-1002     112.15
6-1003     112.16
6-1004     112.17
6-1005     112.18
6-1006     112.19
6-1007     112.20
6-1008     112.21
6-1009     112.22
6-1010     112.23
6-1011     112.24
6-1012     112.25
6-1013     112.26
6-1014     112.40
6-1015     112.41
6-1016     112.42
6-1017     112.43
6-1018     112.44
6-1019     112.99
6-1020     112.02
6-1051     113.01
6-1052     113.02
6-1053     113.98
6-1055     113.03
6-1056     113.04
6-1057     113.05
6-1058     113.06
6-1061     111.01
6-1062     111.02
6-2001     93.20
6-2002     93.21
6-2003     93.22
6-2004     93.23
6-2005     93.24
6-2011     96.01
6-2012     96.01
6-2013     96.02
6-2014     96.03
6-2015     96.99
7-1001     70.01
7-1011     70.02
7-1012     70.02
7-1013     70.02
7-1014     70.03
7-1015     70.03
7-1016     70.03
7-1017     70.99
7-1018     70.04
7-1021     70.15
7-1022     70.16
7-1023     70.19
7-1024     70.17
7-1025     70.18
7-1031     70.30
7-1032     70.31
7-1033     70.32
7-1034     70.33
7-1035     70.34
7-1036     70.35
7-1037     70.36
7-1038     70.37
7-1039     70.38
7-1051     71.01
7-1061     71.15
7-1062     71.16
7-1063     71.17
7-1064     71.18
7-1065     71.19
7-1071     71.30
7-1072     71.31
7-1081     71.45
7-1082     71.45
7-1083     71.47
7-1084     71.48
7-1085     71.49
7-1086     71.50
7-1087     71.51
7-1088     71.51
7-1091     71.80
7-1092     71.80
7-1093     71.80
7-1094     71.81
7-1095     71.82
7-1096     71.83
7-1101     74.01
7-1102     74.02
7-1103     74.03
7-1104     74.04
7-1105     74.05
7-1106     74.06
7-1107     74.07
7-1108     74.07
7-1111     73.01
7-1112     73.02
7-1113     73.03
7-1114     73.04
7-1115     73.05
7-1116     73.06
7-1117     73.07
7-1118     73.08
7-1119     73.09
7-1120     73.10
7-1121     73.11
7-1131     71.65
7-1132     Ch. 75, Sched. V
7-1133     71.66
7-1134     71.67
7-1141     72.35
7-1142     72.36
7-1143     72.37
7-1151     72.15
7-1152     72.16
7-1153     72.17
7-1154     72.18
7-1155     72.19
7-1156     72.20
7-1157     72.20
7-1161     72.50
7-1162     72.51
7-1163     72.52
7-1164     72.52
7-1171     72.01
7-1172     72.02
7-1173     72.03
7-1174     72.03
7-1175     72.04
8-1001     130.01
8-1002     130.02
8-1003     130.03
8-1004     130.04
8-1005     130.05
8-3001     92.01
8-3002     92.02
8-3003     92.02
8-3004     92.02
8-3005     92.03
8-3006     92.04
8-3007     92.05
8-3008     92.06
8-4001     94.15
8-4002     94.16
8-4003     94.17
8-4004     94.18
8-4005     94.19
8-4006     94.20
8-4007     94.21
8-5001     94.35
8-5002     94.36
8-5003     94.37
8-5004     94.38
8-5005     94.39
8-6001     94.01
8-6002     94.01
8-6003     130.06
8-6004     130.07
8-6005     130.08
8-6006     130.08
8-6007     130.09
9-1001     150.01
9-1002     150.02
9-1003     150.03
9-1004     150.04
9-1005     150.05
9-1006     150.05
9-1007     150.07
9-1008     150.08
9-1009     150.09
9-1021     150.20
9-1022     150.21
9-1023     150.22
9-1024     150.23
9-1025     150.24
9-1026     150.25
9-1027     150.26
9-1031     150.40
9-1032     150.41
9-1033     150.42
9-1034     150.43
9-1035     150.44
9-1036     150.45
9-1037     150.46
9-1038     150.47
9-1039     150.47
9-1040     150.49
9-1041     150.50
9-1051     151.01
9-1052     151.02
9-1053     151.15
9-1054     151.16
9-1055     151.16
9-1056     151.18
9-1057     151.19
9-1058     151.20
9-1059     151.21
9-1060     151.22
9-1061     151.23
9-1062     151.23
9-1063     151.36
9-1064     151.37
9-1065     151.38
9-1066     151.39
9-1067     151.40
9-1068     151.41
9-1069     151.42
9-1070     151.43
9-1071     151.44
9-1072     151.44
9-1073     151.98;
           151.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      10-5-1946   51.25;
                     51.99
–      1-2-1950    112.02
–      2-1-1964    Ch. 75, Sched. IV
–      10-5-1964   Ch. 75, Sched. IV
–      1-8-1968    130.09;
                     130.99
                     51.03;
                     51.20;
                     51.21;
–      3-9-1972    51.23;
                     51.24;
                     51.36–
                     51.38
–      4-10-1972   Ch. 75, Sched. IV
–      11-5-1972   51.19
–      6-11-1973   51.99
                     70.02–
                     70.04;
–      4-8-1974    70.99;
                     113.01–
                     113.06;
                     113.98
–      8-4-1974    32.35 –
                     32.39
–      9-1-1975    94.15;
                     94.16
                     71.65–
–      9-8-1975    71.67;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. V
–      - -1976     Ch. 75, Sched. IV
–      5-10-1976   92.01–
                     92.06
                     152.01–
–      8-12-1991   152.04;
                     152.99
–      5-14-2001   52.065–
                     52.068
                     90.01–
–      11-12-2001  90.08;
                     90.99
                     52.001;
                     52.020–
                     52.024;
                     52.035–
                     52.040;
–      5-13-2002   52.050–
                     52.053;
                     52.080–
                     52.084;
                     52.095–
                     52.101;
                     52.999
–      7-8-2002    30.01
                    
 
