TOWN OF WELDON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 1-11-2021; and
State legislation current through 2021 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Weldon shall be
designated as the Code of Weldon, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACTS BY AGENTS.  When any provision of this code or any other ordinance
requires an act to be done which may be law as well be done by an agent as by
the principal, that requisition shall be construed to include all those acts
when done by an authorized agent.
      BOARD or BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The Board of Commissioners of the Town
of Weldon, unless the context requires otherwise.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Weldon, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL.  The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Weldon, North Carolina.
      COUNTY.  The County of Halifax, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES.  The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER.  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      NUMBER.  Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      TOWN.  The Town of Weldon, in the County of Halifax, North Carolina.
      WEEK.  Seven days; but publication in a newspaper of any notice or other
matter indicated to be for a stated number of weeks shall be construed to mean
one insertion in each week, unless specifically stated to be for each day of
the week, or for more than one day in each week.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  One designated by the Council.
(1977 Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: "Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Weldon, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Weldon, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amending ordinances, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: 
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
"(1977 Code, §       )."  The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of ordinances adopted prior to the adoption of this code, and included herein,
shall be considered as continuations thereof, and not as new enactments.
(1977 Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
         
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
33.   PLANNING BOARD
         
34.   ELECTIONS
         
35.   EMERGENCIES
         
36.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
         
37.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Charter
   
30.02   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
§ 30.01  CHARTER.
   (A)   The Charter for the town, as included in the 1942 and 1967
codifications, consisted of a compilation of numerous acts of the state
legislature having special applicability to the town. Chief among these were
Private Laws 1891, Chapter 83, and Private Laws 1935, Chapter 39, together with
the amendments to both those acts.
   (B)   A current Charter for the town, compiled pursuant to G.S. § 160A-496
would consist of the acts included in the 1942 and 1967 compilations, except as
modified or repealed by subsequent legislation, together with any other special
acts applicable to the town, adopted by the legislature since the 1967
codification which the Town Attorney and the Board of Commissioners might wish
to include.
   (C)   Because of the conflicting and contradictory nature of many of the
provisions contained in those acts, and because numerous provisions of those
acts have been rendered obsolete or effectively repealed by more general
statutory provisions, the town officials have deemed it advisable not to
attempt such a compilation at this time. For this reason, those acts have not
been set out in this volume; however, copies of the Charters as compiled in
1942 and 1967, together with copies of certain other acts of the legislature
applicable to the town, may be found on file in the office of the Town Clerk
and Treasurer.
(1977 Code, Part I)
Cross-references:
   Cemetery Commission, see §§
91.20 through
91.22
   Chief of Police generally, see §§
37.15 and
37.16
   Duty of public employees to obey traffic regulations, see §
70.04
   Elections generally, see
Chapter 34
   Finance and taxation generally, see
Chapter 36
   Fire Chief generally, see §§
92.27 through
92.30
   Fire Departments generally, see §§
92.25 and
92.26
   Inspection Department generally, see §§
150.20 through
150.26
   Library trustees, see §
93.02
   Police generally, see
Chapter 37
   Street Commissioner, see §§
97.25 through
97.27
   Superintendent of Water Department, see §
51.04
§ 30.02  EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town, according
to and as authorized by Article 19 of G.S. Chapter 160A, being G.S. § 160A-360
et seq., extend to distances not exceeding one mile from the corporate limits
as shown on a map titled "Official Extraterritorial Boundary Map of the Town of
Weldon, North Carolina" and on file in the office of the Town Clerk and
Treasurer, the map being made an integral part of this chapter as fully as
though set out herein.
(1977 Code, § 2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of town, see G.S. § 160A-360
CHAPTER 31:  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
Generally
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Quorum
   
31.03   Resignation of members
   
31.04   Forfeiture of office on moving residence from town
   
31.05   Vacancies
   
31.06   Committees
   
31.07   Presiding officer
   
31.08   Mayor voting to break tie
   
31.09   Meetings; regular
   
31.10   Special meetings
   
31.11   Adjourned meetings
   
31.12   Compensation
Rules of Procedure
   
31.25   Generally
   
31.26   Order of business
   
31.27   Propositions to be seconded and reduced to writing
   
31.28   Calling for previous question or "ayes" and "nays"
   
31.29   Motions having precedence
   
31.30   Motion to adjourn
   
31.31   Appointments by ballot
Ordinances
   
31.45   Form; approval by Town Attorney
   
31.46   Effective date
Statutory reference:
   Duty of Mayor to preside at meetings, see G.S. § 160A-69
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
   Oath, see G.S. § 160A-61
GENERALLY
§ 31.01  OATH.
   The Mayor and each Commissioner-elect shall, before entering upon the duties
of his or her office, take and subscribe, before some person lawfully entitled
to administer oaths, an oath or affirmation to support the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of North Carolina, and the laws made
pursuant thereto, and to faithfully perform the duties of his or her office,
which oath or affirmation shall be entered upon the minutes of the Board,
subscribed as aforesaid and attested by the officer administering the same.
(1977 Code, § 2-2)
§ 31.02  QUORUM.
   A majority of the total members of the Board of Commissioners, excluding
vacancies, shall constitute a quorum.
(1977 Code, § 2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 31.03  RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of any member of the Board of Commissioners shall be in writing,
and the resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting,
unless considered by unanimous consent.
(1977 Code, § 2-4)
§ 31.04  FORFEITURE OF OFFICE ON MOVING RESIDENCE FROM TOWN.
   If any member of the Board of Commissioners shall move his or her residence
from the town, his  or her Office shall at once be declared vacant, and shall
be filled as provided by §
31.05 below.
(1977 Code, § 2-5)
§ 31.05  VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy caused by the death, resignation or disqualification of a member
of the Board of Commissioners shall be filled by a majority vote of the Board;
provided, that if the number of vacancies is such that a quorum of the Board
cannot be obtained, the vacancies shall be filled in the manner provided for
those cases in G.S. § 160A-63.
(1977 Code, § 2-6)
Statutory reference:
   State law as to vacancies generally, see G.S. § 160A-63
§ 31.06  COMMITTEES.
   (A)   All committees of the Board of Commissioners shall, unless otherwise
ordered, be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   All reports of committees shall be in writing.
   (C)   Committee members shall receive compensation for extra and special
service as the Board may designate.
(1977 Code, § 2-7)
§ 31.07  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners. In case of the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall
preside.
(1977 Code, § 2-8)
§ 31.08  MAYOR VOTING TO BREAK TIE.
   When there is an equal division of the Board of Commissioners upon any
question, the Mayor may vote to break the tie, but he or she shall have no vote
under any other circumstances.
(1977 Code, § 2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor limited to voting only to break tie, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 31.09  MEETINGS; REGULAR.
   There shall be a regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners, held at the
town offices, or at some other place as may be designated, at 7:30 p.m. on the
second Monday of each month, unless otherwise specified, in which case each
member of the Board shall be notified.
(1977 Code, § 2-10)
§ 31.10  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Board may
at any time call a special meeting of the Board by signing a written notice,
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (B)   The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Commissioner or
left at his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings may be held at any time when the Mayor and all
members of the Board are present and consent thereto or when those not present
have signed a written waiver of notice.
   (D)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting, unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
(1977 Code, § 2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 160A-71(b)
§ 31.11  ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the Board
of Commissioners or if, for any reason, the meeting shall fail to complete
transaction of the business before the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned to
any date prior to the next regular meeting agreed upon by a majority of the
members present.
(1977 Code, § 2-12)
§ 31.12  COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Board of Commissioners shall receive as compensation an
amount as may be set by the Board and adopted as part of the annual budget
ordinance, in accordance with G.S. § 160A-64.
(1977 Code, § 2-13)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.25  GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided by this division, the procedure of the Board of
Commissioners shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
(1977 Code, § 2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board to adopt rules of procedure, see G.S. § 160A-71(c)
§ 31.26  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at all regular meetings of the Board of
Commissioners shall be as follows:
      (1)   Reading of minutes of last meeting;
      (2)   Corrections, if any, made in minutes;
      (3)   Reports of committees;
      (4)   Unfinished business;
      (5)   Reading any communication by the Clerk; and
      (6)   New business.
   (B)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the same shall have precedence over all other business at the meeting.
(1977 Code, § 2-15)
§ 31.27  PROPOSITIONS TO BE SECONDED AND REDUCED TO WRITING.
   No proposition shall be entertained by the Mayor until it has been seconded,
and every proposition shall, when required by the Mayor or any member, be
reduced to writing.
(1977 Code, § 2-16)
§ 31.28  CALLING FOR PREVIOUS QUESTION OR "AYES" AND "NAYS".
   (A)   The previous question may be called at any time by a majority of the
members present.
   (B)   The "ayes" and "nays" may be called for by any member.
(1977 Code, § 2-17)
§ 31.29  MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   (A)   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received,
except as follows:
      (1)   To lay on the table;
      (2)   To postpone to a certain time;
      (3)   To postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   To refer to a committee;
      (5)   To amend;
      (6)   To strike out or insert; and/or
      (7)   To divide.
   (B)   Motions for any of the above purposes shall have precedence in the
order named.
(1977 Code, § 2-18)
§ 31.30  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided without
debate.
(1977 Code, § 2-19)
§ 31.31  APPOINTMENTS BY BALLOT.
   All appointments by the Board of Commissioners shall be by ballot, if
required by any two members present.
(1977 Code, § 2-20)
ORDINANCES
§ 31.45  FORM; APPROVAL BY TOWN ATTORNEY.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance, and every new
ordinance, shall be proposed in writing, signed by the Commissioner presenting
it and approved as to form by the Town Attorney prior to enactment.
(1977 Code, § 2-21)
Cross-references:
   Effects of repeal or modification of ordinances or provisions of code, see §
10.16
   Provisions of code considered as continuations of existing ordinances, see §
10.19
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances and resolutions, see G.S. §§ 160A-76 to 160A-79, and G.S. §§
160A-174 et seq.
§ 31.46  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Every ordinance shall be in force immediately upon its passage, except as
otherwise provided in this code, or in that ordinance.
(1977 Code, § 2-22)
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Generally
   
32.02   Mayor
   
32.03   Town Clerk
   
32.04   Town Attorney
   
32.05   Town Administrator/Finance Officer
§ 32.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Compensation. The officers and employees of the town shall receive as
compensation amounts as may be set from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners, acting pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-64 or 160A-162, as applicable.
(1977 Code, § 2-23)
   (B)   Interest in contracts and the like. No member of the Board of
Commissioners or other officer or employee of the town shall be pecuniarily
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract made or entered into by the
Board or in any matter where the rights or liabilities of the town are or may
be involved.
(1977 Code, § 2-24)
§ 32.02  MAYOR.
   (A)   Chief executive. The Mayor shall be chief executive of the town.
(1977 Code, § 2-25)
   (B)   Duties generally. The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town's business;
      (2)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   Sign all contracts, franchises or paper writings authorized by the
Board;
      (4)   Appoint committees, and outline their powers and duties, as he or
she deems necessary to properly care for the affairs of the town;
      (5)   Make recommendations as he or she deems necessary or expedient to
the Board; and
      (6)   Supply the Board with any necessary information respecting any of
the several departments under his or her control.
   (C)   Mayor Pro Tempore. At the first meeting after their election, the
members of the Board of Commissioners shall select one of their number to act
as Mayor Pro Tempore during his or her term of office, and he or she shall, in
case of sickness or absence of the Mayor, perform all the duties of the Mayor
and shall be compensated for his or her services as prescribed by the Board.
(1977 Code, § 2-27)
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
Cross-references:
   Authority of Mayor as executive head of Police Department, see §
37.01
   Power and authority of Mayor during state of emergency, see §§
35.02 through
35.05
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 32.03  TOWN CLERK.
   There shall be a Town Clerk who shall give notice of meetings of the Board
of Commissioners, keep a journal of the proceedings of the Board of
Commissioners, be the custodian of all town records, and shall perform any
other duties that may be required by law or the Board of Commissioners.
(G.S. § 160A-171)
Statutory reference:
   Town Clerk generally, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Town Finance Officer generally, see G.S. §§ 159-24 to 159-30
§ 32.04  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners after
their election and qualification or as soon thereafter as possible, they shall
appoint a Town Attorney.
(1977 Code, § 2-38)
   (B)   Duties generally. The Town Attorney shall:
      (1)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the town;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor, Board of Commissioners or any other officer of
the town in regard to matters connected with the town's business;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Board when requested to do so;
      (4)   Draw deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as may
be required for the proper conduct of the town's business;
      (5)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises;
      (6)   Approve all ordinances as to form before enactment; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as the Board may require pursuant to the
Charter, other special acts applicable to the town or the General Statutes of
North Carolina.
(1977 Code, § 2-39)
Statutory reference:
   Town Attorney generally, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 32.05  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR/FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Office created. The Office of Town Administrator is hereby created.
The Office of Town Administrator is a full-time position, whose duties and
responsibilities may not be held or exercised by a part-time Town Administrator
unless explicitly conferred by the Board.
   (B)   Appointment. The Board may appoint a full-time Town Administrator, who
shall be the administrative head of the town government. He or she shall be
supervised by the Board and shall be responsible for the administration of all
town offices, positions and departments. He or she shall be appointed with
regard to merit only and it is preferred, but not required, that he or she be a
resident of the town when appointed. He or she shall hold office during the
pleasure of the Board, and shall receive compensation as it may fix.
   (C)   Duties generally. The Town Administrator shall:
      (1)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town's business;
      (2)   Have general supervision over and control of all employees of the
town government;
      (3)   Have supervision over and control of the several departments or
officers of the town government;
      (4)   Make a recommendation as he or she deems necessary or expedient to
the Board;
      (5)   Supply the Board with necessary information respecting any of the
several departments under his or her control;
      (6)   Make a monthly report to the Board relative to the condition of the
town's finances and the operation of the town government for the preceding
month; and
      (7)   Do other and further acts as the Board may require.
      (8)   Perform the duties of Town Treasurer and Town Accountant.
   (D)   In the event of a vacancy. When the position of Town Administrator is
vacant, the Mayor shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Town
Administrator until the vacancy is filled.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
CHAPTER 33:  PLANNING BOARD
Section
   
33.01   Established
   
33.02   Members; terms, vacancies, attendance at meetings
   
33.03   Compensation
   
33.04   Organization; rules, records, quorum, conflicts of interest
   
33.05   Powers and duties; generally
   
33.06   Annual report and budget request; authority to appoint committees and
authorize expenditures within budget limitations
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to planning and regulation of development generally,
see G.S. §§ 160A-360 et seq.
   Extraterritorial representation for municipal planning agencies, see G.S. §
160A-362
   Municipal planning agencies generally, see G.S. § 160A-361
§ 33.01  ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be a Planning Board for the town, established under the
authority of G.S. § 160A-361.
(1977 Code, § 2-40)
§ 33.02  MEMBERS; TERMS, VACANCIES, ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of nine members.
      (1)   Five members shall be citizens living within the corporate limits,
and four members shall be residents of the county living within the area of
municipal extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (2)   The members residing within the town shall be appointed by the
Board of Commissioners of the town, and the members residing within the area of
municipal extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners of the county, upon receipt of a resolution from the Town
Board of Commissioners requesting that the appointments be made.
      (3)   In the event the Board of County Commissioners fails to make the
appointments requested within 90 days of receipt of the resolution, the Town
Board of Commissioners shall make the appointments.
   (B)   The appointments of both groups shall be according to the following
terms:
      (1)   Two members from the town and one member from the extraterritorial
area shall be appointed for one year;
      (2)   Two members from the town and one member from the extraterritorial
area shall be appointed for two years; and
      (3)   One member from the town and two members from the extraterritorial
area shall be appointed for three years.
   (C)   Their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years. Terms
shall expire on January 30. Members shall serve until the expiration of their
terms or until their successors have been appointed.
   (D)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners of
the town, if the vacancy is of a member residing within the town, or by the
Board of Commissioners of the county, if the vacancy is of a member residing
within the area of extraterritorial municipal jurisdiction.
   (E)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Planning Board is
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board.
Failure to attend three consecutive meetings shall be deemed adequate reason
for termination of membership on the Planning Board by the legislative body.
(1977 Code, § 2-41)
§ 33.03  COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Board shall serve as such without compensation.
Members or employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the
Planning Board, may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning
institutes or hearings upon pending planning legislation, and the Planning
Board may, by formal and affirmative vote, pay the reasonable traveling
expenses incidental to the attendance, within the Planning Board's budget and
with concurrence of the Town Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 2-42)
§ 33.04  ORGANIZATION; RULES, RECORDS, QUORUM, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and may create and fill
other offices as it may deem necessary. The term of officers shall be one year
or until successors shall have been elected and installed with eligibility for
reelection. Vacancies in officers' positions prior to expiration of terms shall
be filled for the period of the unexpired terms by the Planning Board.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall
keep a record of its members' attendance and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings and recommendations, which record shall be a public record.
   (C)   The Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly, unless there is no
business to be discussed or acted upon, and all of its meetings shall be open
to the public with the exception of executive sessions.
   (D)   All members of the Board shall have voting power on all matters of
business. However, any member who is a party at interest to matters under
consideration by the Board shall declare the interest prior to a vote of the
Board on the question and shall abstain from voting on the question. This
provision shall not prohibit the members from participation in discussions of
the Board on those matters prior to a vote. 
(1977 Code, § 2-43)
§ 33.05  POWERS AND DUTIES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Board to make
comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future
developments and prepare those plans for physical, social and economic
development as will best promote the public health, safety, morals,
conveniences or the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the
development of the town. The Planning Board shall have the powers and duties
given it by the General Statutes of North Carolina and the Board of
Commissioners of the town, including the power to:
      (1)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      (2)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
      (3)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving objectives;
      (4)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (5)   Advise the Town Board of Commissioners concerning the use and
amendment of means for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Town Board of Commissioners may
direct;
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the Town Board of
Commissioners may direct;
      (8)   Accept, receive and disburse in furtherance of its functions any
funds, grants and services made available by the federal government and its
agencies, the state government and its agencies, any local government and its
agencies and any private and civic sources, with concurrence of the Town Board
of Commissioners; and the Planning Board, with concurrence of the Town Board of
Commissioners, enter into and carry out contracts with the state and federal
government or any agencies thereof under which financial or other planning
assistance is made available to the town and agree to and comply with any
reasonable conditions that are imposed upon that assistance;
      (9)   Enter into and carry out contracts, with the concurrence of the
Town Board of Commissioners, with any other city, county or regional council or
planning agency under which technical planning assistance is furnished; and,
with the concurrence of the Town Board of Commissioners, enter into and carry
out contracts with any other city, county or regional planning agency under
which it agrees to pay the other local government or planning agency for
technical planning assistance;
      (10)   Conduct public hearings as may be required to gather information
necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of a development plan
for the town; and
      (11)   Promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, and to that end publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and employ other means of publicity and education as it may
deem necessary.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have no power to incur any debt or obligation
of the town, nor shall it have any power to make any expenditure of funds of
the town, unless the funds are specifically provided for in the budget of the
town and appropriation made for those purposes by the Town Board of
Commissioners, or unless the incurring of other obligation is otherwise
approved by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 2-44)
§ 33.06  ANNUAL REPORT AND BUDGET REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO APPOINT COMMITTEES AND
AUTHORIZE EXPENDITURES WITHIN BUDGET LIMITATIONS.
   The Planning Board shall annually submit to the Town Board of Commissioners
a written report of its activities, an analysis of the expenditures to date for
the current fiscal year and its requested budget of funds needed for operation
during the ensuing fiscal year. The Planning Board may appoint committees and
authorize expenditures within its approved budget as it may see fit, subject to
limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board by the Town Board of
Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 2-45)
CHAPTER 34:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Conduct generally
   
34.02   Absentee voting
Statutory reference:
   Elections generally, see G.S. §§ 163-1 et seq.
   Municipal elections generally, see G.S. §§ 163-279 et seq.
§ 34.01  CONDUCT GENERALLY.
   All municipal elections held in the town shall be conducted by the County
Board of Elections, pursuant to state law. In all other respects, elections in
the town shall be governed by the applicable provisions of G.S. Ch. 163.
(1977 Code, § 8-1)
§ 34.02  ABSENTEE VOTING.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 163-302, absentee voting in municipal elections shall be
permitted in the town.
(1977 Code, § 8-2)
CHAPTER 35:  EMERGENCIES
Section
   
35.01   When state of emergency deemed to exist
   
35.02   Issuance of proclamation by Mayor
   
35.03   Restrictions imposed by Mayor's proclamation; generally
   
35.04   Limitations on application
   
35.05   Proclamation of end of emergency or restrictions imposed
Cross-reference:
   Parades, picketing, demonstrations and the like, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to enact ordinances to deal with states of emergency, see
G.S. § 14-288.12
   Riots and civil disorders generally, see G.S. §§ 14-288.1 et seq.
§ 35.01  WHEN STATE OF EMERGENCY DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(1977 Code, § 9-1)
§ 35.02  ISSUANCE OF PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR.
   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town or threatening
damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence
of such a state of emergency and, in order to more effectively protect the
lives and property of the people within the town, to place in effect the
restrictions authorized in this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 9-2)
§ 35.03  RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY MAYOR'S PROCLAMATION; GENERALLY.
   (A)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose, by proclamation, the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march or vigil, or
participation therein, from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; and
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and other places of public assembly.
   (B)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (C)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 9-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.04  LIMITATIONS ON APPLICATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation
authorized in §
35.03 above, the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the corporate limits and to
specific hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any part of the
restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees;
doctors, nurses and employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-
duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
(1977 Code, § 9-4)
§ 35.05  PROCLAMATION OF END OF EMERGENCY OR RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of a state of emergency, or all or any part
of the restrictions imposed during the same, as soon as circumstances warrant
or when directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 9-5)
CHAPTER 36:  FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Generally
   
36.01   Fiscal year
Property Taxes
   
36.15   Discounts and penalties
   
36.16   Partial payment
   
36.17   Apportionment and release of lien
   
36.18   Application to property sold for taxes
Cross-references:
   Improvements generally, see
Chapter 151
   Licenses and business regulations generally, see
Chapter 110
   Town Clerk generally, see §
32.03
   Water and sewer rates and charges, see §§
51.60 through
51.64
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to property taxes generally, see G.S. § 160A-209
   General power of town to impose taxes, see G.S. § 160A-206
   Local government finance generally, see G.S. §§ 159-1 et seq.
GENERALLY
§ 36.01  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the town shall begin on July 1 and shall end on June 30
of each year.
(1977 Code, § 11-1)
PROPERTY TAXES
§ 36.15  DISCOUNTS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All taxes levied by the Board of Commissioners shall be due and
payable on September 1 of the fiscal year for which the taxes are levied. If
paid:
      (1)   On or after the due date and before January 6 thereafter, taxes
shall be paid at par or face amount;
      (2)   On or after January 6 following the due date and before February 1
thereafter, there shall be added to the taxes interest at the rate of 2%; or
      (3)   On or after February 1 following the due date, there shall be added
to the taxes, in addition to the 2%, interest at the rate of 0.75% per month or
fraction thereof until the taxes, plus penalties and interest, have been paid.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 105-360(c), the Board of Commissioners may from
time to time, in their discretion, establish schedules of discounts to be
applied to taxes paid prior to the due date. Prior to taking effect, the
ordinance or resolution specifying the amounts of the discounts shall be
submitted to the State Board of Assessment for approval and, upon approval,
shall be published at least once in some newspaper having general circulation
in the town, all in accordance with the state law.
(1977 Code, § 11-2)
Statutory reference:
   Due date, interest for nonpayment and discounts for prepayment of taxes
generally, see G.S. § 105-360
§ 36.16  PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   Any taxpayer may make a partial payment on the total ad valorem tax
charged against his or her property and thereafter be relieved of penalties or
interest to the extent of the payment.
   (B)   No release of an individual parcel of real property from a tax lien of
the town shall be granted upon a partial payment made by the party in whose
name the property was listed for taxes.
(1977 Code, § 11-3)
§ 36.17  APPORTIONMENT AND RELEASE OF LIEN.
   (A)   In order to avoid undue hardship, the Tax Collector may release a
particular tract or parcel of real estate from the tax lien of the town when a
change in the ownership of the property has occurred since the listing date for
the year proposed to be paid, upon payment by the owner of the property of the
tax against the same and upon the payment of all unpaid personal property tax
against the party in whose name the property was listed.
   (B)   The party paying the personal property tax of another shall be
subrogated to the rights of the town with respect to the tax, and the Tax
Collector shall assign to the party all rights of the town with respect to the
item of personal tax.
(1977 Code, § 11-4)
§ 36.18  APPLICATION TO PROPERTY SOLD FOR TAXES.
   The rules stated in §§
36.16 and
36.17 shall apply in cases where property has been sold for taxes and the town
is the holder of the certificate of sale; provided, that:
   (A)   No suit has been instituted to foreclose the certificate; and
   (B)   The applicant for a release in accordance with the provisions of §
36.17 shall first pay the cost of advertising, selling and issuing of the
certificate of sale.
(1977 Code, § 11-5)
CHAPTER 37:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Generally
   
37.01   Composition; Mayor as head of Department; authority of Mayor
   
37.02   Uniforms
   
37.03   Interfering with, resisting and the like
Chief of Police
   
37.15   Appointment
   
37.16   Duties generally
Police Officers
   
37.30   Duties generally
   
37.31   Making arrests
   
37.32   Special police officers
Cross-references:
   Authority of police to direct traffic in event of emergencies and the like,
see §
70.03
   Authority of police to disburse assemblies tending to intimidate pickets,
see §
95.22
   Compliance with lawful orders or directions of police officers made pursuant
to provisions relative to motor vehicles in traffic, see §
70.02
   Fire departments generally, see §§
92.25 through
92.30
   Fire prevention generally, see
Chapter 92
Statutory reference:
   Town police and law enforcement generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 to 160A-289
GENERALLY
§ 37.01  COMPOSITION; MAYOR AS HEAD OF DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the executive head of the Police Department and,
together with the Chief of Police and other employees as the Board of
Commissioners may deem necessary, shall constitute the Police Department.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have general control of the Police Department and may,
at any time for cause, suspend from duty any member of the police force.
(1977 Code, § 24-1)  (Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 37.02  UNIFORMS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and other police officers shall, when on duty,
wear uniforms as shall be prescribed by the Board of Commissioners, and shall
keep the same in a neat condition.
   (B)   Upon discharge, resignation or dismissal, the Police Chief and other
police officers shall surrender the uniforms, when the same shall have been
purchased by the town for their use.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall see that the force presents a neat and
respectable appearance.
   (D)   Any member of the police force designated or employed for emergency,
limited or special duty, or anyone working generally as a detective or doing
detective work, need not be clad in a uniform unless specifically so directed
by the Chief of Police.
(1977 Code, § 24-2)
§ 37.03  INTERFERING WITH, RESISTING AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall interfere with, hamper, molest, resist or hinder a police
officer in the lawful discharge of his or her duty.
(1977 Code, § 24-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting, obstructing and the like, officers generally, see G.S. § 14-223
CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 37.15  APPOINTMENT.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners after its election and
qualification or as soon thereafter as possible, the Board shall appoint a
Chief of Police.
(1977 Code, § 24-4)
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Police Chief to designate route of parade or procession and the
like, see §
95.03
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to appoint Chief of Police, see G.S. § 160A-281
§ 37.16  DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Chief of Police shall:
   (A)   Supervise, subject to the Mayor and Board of Commissioners, the Police
Department;
   (B)   Preserve the peace by suppression of all disturbances and apprehension
of all offenders;
   (C)   Serve all processes and precepts that may be issued to him or her by
the Mayor;
   (D)   Assign duties as he or she deems best to the police officers of the
town;
   (E)   Make a monthly report to the Board concerning the activities of his or
her Department; and
   (F)   Perform other and further duties as the Mayor or Board of
Commissioners may assign.
(1977 Code, § 24-5)
POLICE OFFICERS
§ 37.30  DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The police officers of the town shall:
   (A)   Especially preserve public peace, prevent crimes, detect and arrest
offenders and suppress riots and unlawful gatherings which obstruct the free
passage of public streets, sidewalks, parks and public places;
   (B)   Protect the rights of persons and property;
   (C)   Guard the public health;
   (D)   Preserve order at elections and all public meetings and assemblages;
   (E)   Regulate the movements of vehicles on the streets and highways;
   (F)   Arrest all street mendicants and beggars;
   (G)   Provide proper police attendance at fires;
   (H)   Carefully observe and inspect all places of public amusement and all
places of business having license to carry on the business and suppress and
restrain all unlawful and disorderly conduct or practices therein;
   (I)   Enforce penalties for the violation of laws and ordinances in the
town;
   (J)   Arrest all persons guilty of violating any law or ordinance;
   (K)   Prevent, as far as possible, any injury to property and buildings,
streets and sidewalks;
   (L)   Report to the Board of Commissioners any repairs needed to any public
property;
   (M)   Serve all processes issued to them;
   (N)   Summon as many persons as may be necessary to assist them in the
duties herein outlined; and
   (O)   Perform any other duties that may be assigned to them by the Chief of
Police, Board of Commissioners or Mayor.
(1977 Code, § 24-6)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of police officers generally, see G.S. § 160A-285
§ 37.31  MAKING ARRESTS.
   (A)   When any person is arrested by a police officer for the violation of
any ordinance or law, it shall be the duty of the arresting officer to take the
accused immediately before a magistrate of the town.
   (B)   If bail is not allowed or if the accused is unable to post the
required bail, he or she shall be confined in the town jail to await trial.
(1977 Code, § 24-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.32  SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor may, when he or she deems it necessary, employ as many special
police officers as are necessary to preserve peace.
(1977 Code, § 24-8)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   REFUSE COLLECTION
         
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Yard rubbish
   
50.02   Other rubbish; discarded furniture and the like
   
50.03   Ashes; accumulation
   
50.04   Leaf collections
   
50.05   Collection rules
§ 50.01  YARD RUBBISH.
   (A)   Yard rubbish, as a collectable waste, includes grass clippings,
leaves, garden hedge trimmings and ordinary accumulation of tree prunings.
Leaves and grass clippings (except from October 15 to January 15) will be put
in bags, boxes or some other container.
   (B)   Bulky accumulations of yard rubbish, such as hedge and tree trimmings,
shall be cut into pieces not exceeding four feet in length, and tied and piled
in bundles along the curb. Anything larger or heavier than “one-man carry” will
not be picked up.
   (C)   All yard rubbish shall be placed between the curb and sidewalk (on
town property) only where alleys are not provided and shall be ready for
collection by 7:00 a.m. The household is responsible for the placement of
rubbish along the curb so that a safety hazard is not created. Yard rubbish is
not to be placed along the curb so as to prevent the flow of water or deny
sight to vehicular traffic. The collection of yard rubbish as stated above is
without charge.
   (D)   No yard rubbish other than leaves and grass clippings will be
collected during leaf-falling season (October 15 to January 15).
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-11-2021)
§ 50.02  OTHER RUBBISH; DISCARDED FURNITURE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Rubbish such as worn-out furniture, refrigerators, stoves, discarded
building materials generated by work done by the property owner or resident
(not a contractor), and other bulky items will be picked up by the Sanitation
Department on Mondays. These items may be placed along the curb, between 6:00
p.m. on Friday and 7:00 a.m. on Monday. Any property owner, in front of whose
property rubbish of this nature is placed between 7:00 a.m, on Monday and 6:00
p.m. on Friday, is subject to a $50 fine for each day it is placed and remains
along the curb.
   (B)   Owners of rental property are responsible for removing and disposing
of any and all rubbish generated as a result of rehabilitating or cleaning out
rental property between tenants. A property owner, in front of whose property
rubbish placed is in violation of this chapter, will be fined $100 for each day
the rubbish is placed and remains along the curb.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-11-2021)
§ 50.03  ASHES; ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   Occupants of premises who accumulate ashes as a residue of heating
units must furnish a sufficient number of metal receptacles to contain all
ashes which may accumulate during the usual interval between collections. Ashes
should be placed in a metal container not larger than a one-man carry. These
will be picked up at the regular garbage pick-up.
   (B)   Ashes should be kept dry and protected from rain and other elements.
Ashes should not be mixed with other refuse. Hot ashes will not be picked up.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.04  LEAF COLLECTIONS.
   During the leaf-falling season (October 15 to January 15) leaves may be
piled loosely at, but behind the curb line of the street for collection by
special leaf collection equipment. The machine operates similar to a vacuum
sweeper and any broken glass, cuttings, cans, rods or other debris should be
separated from the leaves. Precautions should be taken not to allow piles of
leaves to protrude into the street in a manner so as to cause a safety hazard,
or to prevent the flow of water along the curb line.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-11-2021)
§ 50.05  COLLECTION RULES.
   The town will make refuse collection according to these regulations.
   (A)   Refuse is not to be placed in the gutter so as to prevent the flow of
water.
   (B)   When scheduled collection falls on a holiday, the collection will be
made the next regular scheduled collection day.
   (C)   Collection of dirt, turf, rocks, trade waste, building materials and
the like materials or by-products generated by a contractor, will not be picked
up by the Sanitation Department.
   (D)   Collection of corncobs, husks, pea hulls, watermelon rinds and like
vegetable products should be placed in the garbage cans rather than along the
curb.
   (E)   Collectable refuse (as defined in this chapter) cannot be collected on
private property. It must be placed along the curb or alley.
   (F)   Collectable refuse, when possible, should be cut, tied or placed in
containers to facilitate loading and hauling.
   (G)   All yard rubbish generated by yard maintenance contractors or tree
surgeons will not be picked up by the Sanitation Department.
   (H)   Only trees, limbs and stumps left from work done by the property owner
or resident (not a contractor) will be hauled away by the town at a cost as
determined by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
   (I)   No roofing shingles will be picked up by the town, whether left by the
resident or a contractor.
   (J)   Dead animal removal from town streets is a town responsibility.
   (K)   All debris placed along the curb for collection must not create a
safety hazard.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-11-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51:  WATER AND SEWERS
Section
Generally
   
51.01   Prohibited use of or discharges into house sewers
   
51.02   Injuring or obstructing sewer system generally
   
51.03   Discharge of trade wastes for industrial processes into streams
   
51.04   Superintendent of Water Department
Connections and Service Policies
   
51.15   Procedure on receiving application for connection
   
51.16   Connections prerequisite to issuance of certificates of occupancy for
new construction
   
51.17   Owner to lay service pipes; separate connection for each tenant and
each premises
   
51.18   Connection permit; making connections; inspection/approval of work
   
51.19   Cross-connections with drainage system or soil or waste pipe
   
51.20   Size generally of water service pipe
   
51.21   Location of curb boxes and stops
   
51.22   Size of corporation stops; multiple stops for large services
   
51.23   Stopcocks required; access; unauthorized use; consumer to waive rights
to and control over
   
51.24   Meters; when read; when bills payable
   
51.25   Consumers outside town
   
51.26   Turning on water without authorization
   
51.27   Injuring, defacing or destroying water system
   
51.28   Annexation required when service requested
Sewers
   
51.40   Management and control; enforcement
   
51.41   Connections required; compliance with town standards and specifications
   
51.42   State Board of Health regulations to govern certain properties
   
51.43   Separate connections for separate structures; closet and sink required
for each family; frost-proof toilets
   
51.44   Connections from outside town
   
51.45   House sewers; permission to construct; supervision of construction
   
51.46   Materials and fittings
   
51.47   Prohibited substances
Rates and Charges
   
51.60   Tapping fees
   
51.61   Monthly service charges; water
   
51.62   Sewer service charges
   
51.63   Late payment or nonpayment
   
51.64   Restoration of service after discontinuance for nonpayment of bills
Cross-references:
   Buildings generally, see
Chapter 150
   Fire prevention generally, see
Chapter 92
   Improvements generally, see
Chapter 151
   Plumbing generally, see
Chapter 112
   Trailers and trailer parks generally, see
Chapter 152
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to acquire, construct, operate and the like water supply
and distribution and sewage collection and disposal systems, see G.S. § 160A-
312
GENERALLY
§ 51.01  PROHIBITED USE OF OR DISCHARGES INTO HOUSE SEWERS.
   No person shall use the house sewers for any other purpose or place in any
house sewer any foreign matter that may not be promptly dissolved by the sewage
or that may cause obstruction in the sewers.
(1977 Code, § 29-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02  INJURING OR OBSTRUCTING SEWER SYSTEM GENERALLY.
   No person shall injure, break, remove or obstruct any portion of any
manhole, lamphole, flush tank or any other part of the public sewer.
(1977 Code, § 29-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03  DISCHARGE OF TRADE WASTES FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES INTO STREAMS.
   No person shall discharge or permit the discharge into any stream or the
drainage area thereof, which stream or any part thereof passes through the
town, of any trade waste for industrial processes, such as dyes, bleaches,
fats, oils, greases, acids, alkalis, chemicals, gasoline or other explosives,
coal tar, creosote or any other trade waste, which does or may discolor the
water of the stream or give off any odor or which may be detrimental to health
or the use of property in the drainage area of the stream, except as provided
in §
51.04 below.
(1977 Code, § 29-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04  SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Office created. The Office of Superintendent of the Water Department
is hereby created.
(1977 Code, § 29-5)
   (B)   Powers and duties generally. The Superintendent of the Water
Department shall:
      (1)   Keep an account of all materials, supplies and fixtures purchased
by him or her for the waterworks, and of the names, time and wages of all hands
employed on the same;
      (2)   Report to the Board of Commissioners on the day preceding the
meeting of the Board, as to the general condition of the system and of all
materials, supplies, fixtures or labor contracted for under this section;
      (3)   Be the engineer in charge of the water system and, as such, have
general control of all lands, pipes, buildings and the machinery belonging
thereto, and be responsible for the proper operation of the same;
      (4)   In case of emergency, employ help as he or she may deem necessary
for the work, keeping an account of the names of those employed, the kind of
work done and the days of the week and month worked;
      (5)   Purchase materials, tools and supplies as may be needed, subject to
restrictions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners;
      (6)   Preserve a map of the location of mains, showing the course, size
and length of each of them, and whenever there is any extension made, mark on
the map the place of and the size and length of pipe used in making the
extension;
      (7)   Enter in a book kept for that purpose diagrams of the location of
all gates or other valves used for stopping the water from any portion of the
works, together with a diagram record of all service taps, showing the location
of the tap, distance of curb box, size of tap and any other information that
would be of service; and
      (8)   Do other and further acts as the Board of Commissioners requires.
(1977 Code, § 29-6)
   (C)   Right of entry. Every person occupying any lot or tenement into which
water is conveyed shall permit the Superintendent or his or her agent, or any
authorized agent of the town, to enter the lot or tenement at reasonable hours
to inspect the works therein or to see if the lot or tenement is in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 29-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CONNECTIONS AND SERVICE POLICIES
§ 51.15  PROCEDURE ON RECEIVING APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Upon receiving an application for a water or sewer connection, the
Superintendent of the Water Department shall cause the connection to the main
to be made and extend the lateral to the curb.
   (B)   No water shall be turned on or sewer connection made until all
required costs and charges have been paid, and the costs and charges shall
constitute a lien upon the property until discharged.
(1977 Code, § 29-8)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to require connections to water and sewer lines, see G.S.
§ 160A-317
§ 51.16  CONNECTIONS PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY FOR
NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued on any new construction within
the town until all water and sewer connections have been made as required by
this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 29-9)
Cross-reference:
   Certificate of occupancy generally, see
Chapter 155
§ 51.17  OWNER TO LAY SERVICE PIPES; SEPARATE CONNECTION FOR EACH TENANT AND
EACH PREMISES.
   (A)   Whenever, upon application of the property owner, a permit for the
introduction of town water has been issued, the owner of the premises shall lay
down the pipe conveying the water from the curb in the streets into and upon
the premises. The manner of the connection shall be governed by regulations set
forth in this chapter.
   (B)   No water shall be introduced upon any premises except through service
pipe, and there shall be a separate service pipe for each tenement used by a
different family or tenant upon the same premises.  In no case shall water be
introduced into two or more houses or tenements through one curb stop.
(1977 Code, § 29-10)
§ 51.18  CONNECTION PERMIT; MAKING CONNECTIONS; INSPECTION/APPROVAL OF WORK.
   (A)   Upon compliance with the conditions set out in §§
51.16 and
51.17(A) above, the Superintendent of the Water Department shall issue a
written permit granting the privilege upon the terms prescribed by this chapter
and other ordinances of the town.
   (B)   The introduction of water shall only be made under the direction of
the Superintendent of the Water Department and by a properly qualified plumber,
who shall use the pipe fixtures and fittings as are set forth in this chapter.
The plumber shall make a full report in writing to the Superintendent within 48
hours after completing work.
   (C)   Before any pipes are covered and before the water is turned on, the
Superintendent shall inspect and approve all pipes, connections and fixtures.
(1977 Code, § 29-11)
§ 51.19  CROSS-CONNECTIONS WITH DRAINAGE SYSTEM OR SOIL OR WASTE PIPE.
   No plumbing, plumbing fixture, construction or valve, fitting or device,
apparatus or connection shall be installed which will provide a cross-
connection between a distributing system of water supply for drinking and
domestic purposes and a drainage system or soil or waste pipe, so as to permit
or make possible the backflow of sewage or wastewater into the water supply
system.
(1977 Code, § 29-12)
§ 51.20  SIZE GENERALLY OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   The water service pipe of any building shall be of sufficient size to permit
a continuous and ample flow of water on all floors at any time.
(1977 Code, § 29-13)
§ 51.21  LOCATION OF CURB BOXES AND STOPS.
   All curb boxes and stops shall be located at or near the curb line of the
street from which water is conducted.
(1977 Code, § 29-14)
§ 51.22  SIZE OF CORPORATION STOPS; MULTIPLE STOPS FOR LARGE SERVICES.
   (A)   No corporation stops larger than one inch shall be used on mains of
four inches in diameter or more.
   (B)   When a large service is required, two or more stops may be used,
provided they are placed not less than ten inches apart, and all service pipes
shall be laid the same depth as the main in the street from the main to the
stopcocks at the curb line.
(1977 Code, § 29-15)
§ 51.23  STOPCOCKS REQUIRED; ACCESS; UNAUTHORIZED USE; CONSUMER TO WAIVE RIGHTS
TO AND CONTROL OVER.
   (A)   Stopcocks required. All services shall be provided with a stopcock on
the owner's premises so that, when necessary, water may be stopped without
opening the stop box in the street or sidewalk. Whenever a service not provided
with the stop needs repairing, the stop shall be provided before the water is
again turned on.
(1977 Code, § 29-16)
   (B)   Access; unauthorized use.
      (1)   Access to the stopcock at the curb shall only be had by the
Superintendent of the Water Department or his or her agent.
      (2)   No persons shall use the stopcock for any purpose whatever without
the written permission of the Superintendent.
(1977 Code, § 29-17)
   (C)   Consumer to waive rights to and control over. Any person contracting
for a supply of water shall waive any rights of control he or she may claim to
have over the stop box and stopcock of the service pipe between the main in the
street and his or her premises.
(1977 Code, § 29-18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.24  METERS; WHEN READ; WHEN BILLS PAYABLE.
   Water meters shall be read monthly, and bills therefor shall be payable on
or before the first day of each month.
(1977 Code, § 29-19)
§ 51.25  CONSUMERS OUTSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   Water shall not be furnished to consumers outside the town, except on
the terms and conditions as may be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All connections and all meters, meter boxes and other equipment
necessary for making the connections shall be paid for and kept in repair by
the consumer.
(1977 Code, § 29-21)
§ 51.26  TURNING ON WATER WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION.
   No person shall turn water into and upon any premises or tenement without
the authorization of the Superintendent of the Water Department.
(1977 Code, § 29-22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.27  INJURING, DEFACING OR DESTROYING WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall injure, deface or destroy any of the pipelines or any
part of the pipelines of the water system, or open, close, injure, deface or
destroy any cock, wheel, fire plug, gate, gate valve, flush gate or any fixture
connected with or pertaining to the waterworks of the town.
   (B)   Every person convicted of violating this section shall be penalized as
provided in §
10.99.
(1977 Code, § 29-23)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28  ANNEXATION REQUIRED WHEN SERVICE REQUESTED.
   No sewer or water service shall be provided to any property outside of the
municipal limits of the town, except upon compliance with one of the following:
   (A)   If the property is contiguous to the municipal limits of the town, the
property owners shall immediately petition for and obtain annexation of the
property into the municipal limits of the town; or
   (B)   If the property is not then contiguous to the municipal limits of the
town, the property owners shall enter into a written agreement with the town
for the annexation thereof at a future date as the property shall be contiguous
to the municipal limits of the town, or it is determined by the Board of
Commissioners that it is in the best interest of the town to satellite annex
the property.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2001)
SEWERS
§ 51.40  MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The sewerage system and all matters and things appertaining to its
use, management and control, in every manner and way, shall be under the
control of the Board of Commissioners and shall comply with regulations as the
Board of Commissioners may adopt from time to time.
   (B)   The duty of enforcing the provisions of all the regulations shall
devolve upon the officers or agents of the town as may be there unto assigned
by the Board of Commissioners, by ordinance or otherwise.
(1977 Code, § 29-24)
§ 51.41  CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN STANDARDS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every person owning a house, apartment house, storehouse, restaurant,
any building used for sleeping quarters or any building where persons are
employed, which building abuts or adjoins a street or alley along which there
is a public sewer, shall, within 30 days from the date of legal notice served
by the Building Inspector or other authorized deputy, have sewer and water
connections made to the building; provided, that a sewer and water main is
within 200 feet from the nearest point of building.
   (B)   All connections shall be made according to the town standards and
specifications.
(1977 Code, § 29-25)
§ 51.42  STATE BOARD OF HEALTH REGULATIONS TO GOVERN CERTAIN PROPERTIES.
   All properties not included under §
51.41 above shall be governed by the requirements of the State Board of Health.
(1977 Code, § 29-26)
§ 51.43  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS FOR SEPARATE STRUCTURES; CLOSET AND SINK REQUIRED
FOR EACH FAMILY; FROST-PROOF TOILETS.
   (A)   Each residence, apartment, office building or business structure shall
have a separate sewer connection if a main sewer in an abutting street or alley
is available.
   (B)   Every dwelling shall have a closet and sink in the house or on the
back porch for each family.
   (C)   The use of frost-proof toilets is prohibited.
(1977 Code, § 29-27)
§ 51.44  CONNECTIONS FROM OUTSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   Any person living outside of the town shall be permitted to make
connections with the sanitary sewer lines of the town only as follows:
      (1)   Permission to connect with town sewers shall be conditioned upon
the premises being supplied with town water and upon plumbing being installed
in accordance with the Plumbing Code of the town. All work installed shall be
done by persons qualified as required by §
112.02; and
      (2)   Applications for connections shall be made to the Water Department,
and water service shall not be turned on until a certificate from the Building
Inspector that the plumbing has been properly installed has been received.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to change the rate or refuse to give
service where conditions mentioned in this section are not met or where
conditions are such as to make the service impractical.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to obligate the town to
purchase any sewer lines that may be constructed outside the town.
(1977 Code, § 29-28)
§ 51.45  HOUSE SEWERS; PERMISSION TO CONSTRUCT; SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall construct any drain or sewer from his or her cellar or
lot to any common sewer without permission in writing from the Board of Health.
   (B)   Every drain or sewer shall be constructed under the direction of the
Superintendent of the Water Department, and in a manner that foul air cannot
escape from the sewer into the building.
(1977 Code, § 29-29)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.46  MATERIALS AND FITTINGS.
   (A)   No terra-cotta pipe shall be used in the connection of sewer lines
from the main town sewer to a building.
   (B)   No terra-cotta pipe shall be used in any place for the purpose of
draining sewage in and from the building.
   (C)   A "Y" branch fitting shall be located in the line at a distance of
approximately four feet from the edge of the building.
(1977 Code, § 29-30)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.47  PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No substance, either solid or liquid, shall be put into the public
sewers at manholes or in any other way than through a connection made as
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may prevent or discontinue any connection
with the public sewer which discharges any substance liable to injure the
sewers or obstruct the flow of sewage.
(1977 Code, § 29-31)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to fix and enforce water and sewer service rates and
charges, see G.S. § 160A-314
   Authority of town to fix charges for water and sewer connections, see G.S. §
160A-317
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.60  TAPPING FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The following schedule of fees for water and sewer taps for
single-family residential property, and commercial taps using three-fourths
inch meters, shall be charged:
         (a)   Minimum water tap: $250; and
         (b)   Minimum sewer tap: $250.
      (2)   Provided, that in the event the actual cost of the tap to the town
is more than $75, the applicant shall pay the actual cost.
   (B)   All other taps shall be charged for on the basis of actual cost to the
town, but in no event less than the minimum set forth in division (A) above.
The cost to the town shall be determined by the Superintendent of the Water
Department.
   (C)   The tapping fee required by division (A) above may be paid for in full
at the time that the tap is made or may be paid on the following schedule;
provided, that payment in full shall be made on all taps using meters larger
than three-fourths inch before the tap is made: a minimum of $30 down before
any tap is made, with the balance payable at $10 per month on the first day of
each month until the full amount has been paid. In the event that the monthly
payments are not paid, the property shall not be served with water until the
payment is received.
(1977 Code, § 29-32)
§ 51.61  MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGES; WATER.
   The monthly charges for water furnished by the town shall be as follows: as
determined by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
§ 51.62  SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   Sewer charges shall be as determined out by the Board of Commissioners from
time to time.
(1977 Code, § 29-34)
§ 51.63  LATE PAYMENT OR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   If water and sewer bills are not paid by the fifteenth day of the
month, a penalty as determined by the Board of Commissioners from time to time
shall be added.
   (B)   If bills are not paid by the twentieth day of the month, service shall
be discontinued, and will not be restored until all water rent due is paid in
full, together with any penalty which has accrued.
   (C)   Failure to receive a bill shall not relieve the consumer of any
liability.
(1977 Code, § 29-35)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish penalties or discontinue service for failure
to pay water and sewer service charges, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 51.64  RESTORATION OF SERVICE AFTER DISCONTINUANCE FOR NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   After water has been cut off as provided in §
51.63, it shall not be cut on again until all water rent due for the premises
affected is paid, together with a cut-on fee as determined by the Board of
Commissioners from time to time.
(1977 Code, § 29-36)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
         
72.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
         
73.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
         
74.   BICYCLES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Generally
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Authority of police in special cases
   
70.04   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.05   Applicability of chapter to authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.06   Persons propelling push carts, riding bicycles and the like
   
70.07   Pedestrians crossing streets between intersections
   
70.08   Duty to stay inside moving vehicles; hanging on to vehicles
   
70.09   Riding on vehicles not designated or intended for passengers
   
70.10   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without consent
   
70.11   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
Town Vehicle Registration
   
70.25   Application; fee; term
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Bicycles generally, see
Chapter 74
   Driving over fire hose, see §
92.03
   Firing or passing fire apparatus or parking near fire, see §
92.02
   Limitation on taxicab parking, see §
113.06
   Noises generally, see
Chapter 94
   Notification of injury of dogs by vehicles, see §
90.21
   Parades, picketing, demonstrations and the like, see
Chapter 95
   Streets and sidewalks generally, see
Chapter 97
   Taxicab driver permits, see §§
113.20 through
113.25
   Taxicabs and other vehicles for hire, see
Chapter 113
   Taxicabs standing on streets while waiting employment, cruising and the
like, see §
113.05
   Trailers and trailer parks generally, see
Chapter 152
   Unauthorized riding on Fire Department apparatus, see §
92.01
Statutory references:
   Authority of town as to traffic control generally, see G.S. § 160A-300
   Authority of town to impose annual license tax on motor vehicles, see G.S. §
160A-213
   Codification of certain traffic ordinances by appropriate entries upon
official map books, see G.S. § 160A-77(b)
   Limitations on annual license tax on motor vehicles, see G.S. § 20-97
   Motor vehicles and traffic generally, see G.S. §§ 20-1 et seq.
   Powers of local authorities generally, see G.S. § 20-169
GENERALLY
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK.  The length of a portion of any street which is located between two
adjacent street intersections.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more
of frontage thereon, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is occupied by
buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK.  The portion of a roadway which lies between the prolongation of
the lateral sidewalk or boundary lines over an intersection. Any portion of a
roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing, by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DRIVER.  Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HIGHWAY.  See STREET.
   INTERSECTION.  The area embraced within the prolongations of the lateral
curb or boundary lines of two or more roadways or highways which join or which
join and cross one another at an angle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include bicycles with helper motors rated less than one brake
horsepower which produce only ordinary pedaling speeds up to a maximum of 20
mph.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, markings and devices,
not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the Board
of Commissioners or an official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS.  Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK or PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a
street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, receiving or discharging passengers; loading or unloading
merchandise; in obedience to traffic regulations, signs or signals; or an
involuntary stopping of the vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of
the operator of the vehicle.
   PARKING LOT.  Any area within the town on which more than five automobiles
may be parked, and shall include public parking lots and those parking lots
which are for the principal purpose of providing parking during business hours
for shopping centers, stores, restaurants, drive-ins, theaters and other
business or commercial establishments.
   PARKING ZONE.  Any restricted street upon which time zones for parking are
posted.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every officer of the Town Police Department, or any officer
authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE.  Any vehicle which is engaged in the business of
transporting persons for fare.
   RAILROAD.  A carrier of persons or property, other than streetcars, with
cars operated on stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN.  A steam engine, electric or other locomotor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, but not including
streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to a highway, not comprising a
business district, when the frontage on a highway, for a distance of 300 feet
or more, is mainly occupied by residential dwellings but also by dwellings or
buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway, not
inconsistent with regulations and conditions.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of a street which has been improved and designed for
or which is ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE.  The area officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, which area is either protected or plainly marked
at all times while so set apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, exclusively intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNS.  See TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   STANDING.  Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP.  When required, a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING.  When prohibited, any stopping of a vehicle, except when
conflict with other traffic is imminent or when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire area between lateral property lines, which is
open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular
traffic,
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel,
   TRAFFIC SIGNS.  Authorized signs or markers which are assumed to be
permanently or temporarily placed or erected or installed at certain places and
which purport to give notice of direction or to convey a prohibition or
warning. The presence of these signs, though not compulsory, is generally
dictated by necessity or common sense, with a view to furtherance of public
safety.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in or upon which any person or property may be
transported, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon fixed
rails or tracks, but including a bicycle or ridden animal.
(1977 Code, § 17-1)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions relative to motor vehicles, see G.S. § 20-4.01
§ 70.02  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer made pursuant to this chapter or other ordinance relative to
motor vehicles and traffic.
(1977 Code, § 17-2)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Police generally, see
Chapter 37
§ 70.03  AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency or when it is necessary to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct
traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter.
(1977 Code, § 17-3)
§ 70.04  PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, the state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or the state statutes.
(1977 Code, § 17-4)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of traffic regulations to drivers of governmental vehicles,
see G.S. § 20-168
§ 70.05  APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall also apply to authorized emergency vehicles, but
unless otherwise directed by a police officer, a driver when operating any
vehicle in an emergency may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits, so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not protect the driver of any vehicle
from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of
others.
(1977 Code, § 17-5)
§ 70.06  PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS, RIDING BICYCLES AND THE LIKE.
   Every person propelling a pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter which are applicable to any driver of any
vehicle, except for those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(1977 Code, § 17-6)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Compliance of persons operating bicycles with traffic regulations and
traffic-control signals, duty to have bicycles under control and the like, see
§
74.03
Statutory references:
   Exemption of emergency vehicles from right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-171
§ 70.07  PEDESTRIANS CROSSING STREETS BETWEEN INTERSECTIONS.
   No pedestrians shall cross a street between intersections, unless he or she
can do so safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
(1977 Code, § 17-7)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians crossing streets at other than crosswalks, walking along
highways and the like, see G.S. § 20-174
§ 70.08  DUTY TO STAY INSIDE MOVING VEHICLES; HANGING ON TO VEHICLES.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give signals as
are by law required, and no person shall hang on to any vehicle whatsoever.
(1977 Code, § 17-8)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  RIDING ON VEHICLES NOT DESIGNATED OR INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle on that
portion not designated or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended
for merchandise.
(1977 Code, § 17-9)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT CONSENT.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(1977 Code, § 17-10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11  BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(1977 Code, § 17-11)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TOWN VEHICLE REGISTRATION
§ 70.25  APPLICATION; FEE; TERM.
   (A)   Every person residing in the town who is the owner of a motor vehicle
operated by either the owner of the motor vehicle or by another with the
owner's authority shall, for each motor vehicle, file in the office of the Town
Clerk and Treasurer an application for registration of the motor vehicle and
shall, at the time the application is filed, pay to the county a license fee.
   (B)   The license fee shall permit the operation of the motor vehicle in the
town for the period from January 1 to December 31 next following.
(1977 Code, § 17-12)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this code of ordinances regulating
the operation or parking of a vehicle shall be guilty of an infraction and
shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Traffic maps; erection and installation
   
71.02   Obedience to official traffic-control devices; no turn signs
   
71.03   When signs required for enforcement
   
71.04   Removing, molesting, destroying and the like
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to install traffic-control devices, see G.S. § 20-169
   Vehicle control signs and signals generally, see G.S. § 20-158
§ 71.01  TRAFFIC MAPS; ERECTION AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, by ordinance, from time to time, shall
designate, lay off and indicate upon maps to be appropriately marked and
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk and Treasurer the following: parking
spaces and zones, no parking zones, limited parking zones, loading zones,
safety zones, school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other
than the above, through streets, stop streets, yield right-of-way streets, one-
way streets, three and four lane streets, play streets, bus stops, parallel
parking, angle parking and parking under any other restrictions, together with
indications of intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by official
traffic signals, intersections at which left turns or right turns shall be
prohibited or at which left turns or right turns shall be allowed under certain
conditions and intersections at which markers, buttons, painted marks, signs or
other indications shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by
vehicles traversing or turning at the intersections.
   (B)   Whenever any designation is made in accordance with this section, the
designated town officials, or their agents, shall erect and install the signs,
markings, lines, signals and other traffic-control devices as may be necessary
to clearly indicate the designation and to put drivers of vehicles on notice of
the restriction, limitation or prohibition resulting from the designation.
(1977 Code, § 17-17)
§ 71.02  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; NO TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   Every driver of a vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in §
70.05 above.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions of any like sign.
   (C)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
direction of those indications.
   (D)   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed which indicate no
parking zones or safety zones, the driver of a vehicle shall obey the
regulatory indications.
(1977 Code, § 17-18)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  WHEN SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No provision of this chapter which provides for signs shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, the official sign is not in proper position or is insufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not stipulate signs, that section
shall be effective without signs being placed to give notice thereof.
(1977 Code, § 17-19)
§ 71.04  REMOVING, MOLESTING, DESTROYING AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall remove, deface, molest, change the position of, alter or
destroy any street or highway marker or traffic sign of any kind within the
town.
(1977 Code, § 17-20)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
Generally
   
72.01   Scratching off
   
72.02   Operation of minibikes, go-carts and the like
   
72.03   Driving on sidewalks generally
   
72.04   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
72.05   Driving through funeral processions
   
72.06   Procedure upon approach of authorized emergency vehicle
   
72.07   Turning; method of making left turns
   
72.08   No right or left turn intersections
   
72.09   U-turns
   
72.10   Limitations on backing
   
72.11   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
72.12   Obstructing intersections or crosswalks
   
72.13   Zones of quiet
   
72.14   Play streets
Specific Provisions
   
72.25   Speed limits generally
   
72.26   Stop before entering stop intersection
   
72.27   Yield right-of-way at certain intersections
   
72.28   One-way streets
   
72.29   School zones
   
72.30   Limitation on number of persons in front seat
   
72.31   Trucks restricted in certain areas
   
72.32   Through trucks to remain in right lane on certain streets
   
72.33   Use of roller skates, coasters and the like
   
72.34   Attaching bicycles and the like to moving vehicles
   
72.35   Riding on handlebars of bicycles and the like
Statutory reference:
   Operation of vehicles and rules of road generally, see G.S. §§ 20-138.1 to
20-171.2
GENERALLY
§ 72.01  SCRATCHING OFF.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner commonly
described as "scratching off" upon any public street, highway, road, alley,
drive or other public way, or upon the grounds and premises of any service
station, drive-in theater, store, restaurant or other business establishment
providing parking or loading and unloading automobile space for customers,
patrons or the public.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SCRATCHING OFF shall be defined as
operating a motor vehicle from a standing or parked position by rapid
acceleration or other mechanical means of operation so as to cause the wheels
of the vehicle to spin in place prior to or during the initial forward movement
of the vehicle, or operating a vehicle so as to cause the vehicle, in its
initial movement from a standing or parked position, to travel at a rate of
speed greater than is reasonable and necessary for the normal operation of a
motor vehicle according to accepted standard practices for vehicle operation,
or at a rate of speed or in a manner so that will endanger or be likely to
endanger persons or property, or in a heedless manner willfully disregarding
the rights of others and without due caution.
(1977 Code, § 17-21)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  OPERATION OF MINIBIKES, GO-CARTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall operate any minibike, go-cart or other unlicensed
motorized vehicle, other than a bicycle with a helper motor rated less than one
brake horsepower which produces only ordinary pedaling speeds up to a maximum
of 20 mph, on any street, alley or sidewalk within the town.
   (B)   Any vehicle so operated by the owner or other person lawfully in
custody thereof in violation of any provision of this chapter may be taken into
custody and impounded by the town for a period not exceeding 30 days, and until
disposed of under court order.
(1977 Code, § 17-22)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS GENERALLY.
   No vehicle shall be driven within any sidewalk area, except at a permanent
or temporary driveway.
(1977 Code, § 17-23)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on a roadway which has been clearly marked with
traffic lanes shall be driven, as nearly as practicable, entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved out of the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(1977 Code, § 17-24)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05  DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police vehicles and ambulances, and then only if they are
responding to calls.
(1977 Code, § 17-25)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  PROCEDURE UPON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle, the driver of every other vehicle shall
immediately drive the same to a position as near as possible and parallel to
the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in that position, unless otherwise directed by a police or
traffic officer, until the emergency vehicle has passed.
(1977 Code, § 17-26)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-157(a)
§ 72.07  TURNING; METHOD OF MAKING LEFT TURNS.
   In making left turns at street intersections, all traffic, when approaching
an intersection, shall keep close to the center line of the street, and the
left turn shall then be made beyond the center of the intersection, as may or
may not be indicated by buttons, markers or other directing signs, and shall
proceed in the new direction along the right-hand lane, except at intersections
which may be expressly otherwise marked.
(1977 Code, § 17-27)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Turning at intersections generally, see G.S. § 20-153
§ 72.08  NO RIGHT OR LEFT TURN INTERSECTIONS.
   Where signs are posted giving notice thereof at those intersections
designated as locations for the signs on the official traffic maps, no person
shall make a right or left turn at any like intersection.
(1977 Code, § 17-28)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09  U-TURNS.
   No driver shall make a complete turn so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, or U-turn, at any street intersection.
(1977 Code, § 17-29)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10  LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle into any intersection or
over a crosswalk, nor shall he or she back it otherwise, unless the movement
can be made in safety and unless ample warning has been given by hand, horn or
other signal.
(1977 Code, § 17-30)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11  EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to reaching the sidewalk or the sidewalk
areas extending across any alleyway, and upon entering the roadway, he or she
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1977 Code, § 17-31)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Entering highway from alley, building entrance, private road or driveway,
see G.S. § 20-156
§ 72.12  OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   No driver shall move his or her vehicle across an intersection or a marked
crosswalk, unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate his or her vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, although a traffic-control signal
may be indicating his or her right to proceed.
(1977 Code, § 17-32)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13  ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed which indicate a zone of quiet, no
person operating a motor vehicle within any like zone shall sound the horn or
any other warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(1977 Code, § 17-33)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14  PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed which prescribe any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any prescribed
street, except persons who have business or who reside within the prescribed
area, and any person driving on the street shall exercise the greatest care.
(1977 Code, § 17-34)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 72.25  SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle within a residential district, on
those streets or highways which are not a part of the state highway system and
which are not state maintained, at a speed greater than 25 mph.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle within the business district at a
speed greater than 20 mph.
   (C)   Elsewhere within the town, unless otherwise directed or unless
otherwise provided by this chapter or other ordinance, the speed limit shall be
35 mph.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, no vehicle shall ever
be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
circumstances then existing.
(1977 Code, § 17-35)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed restrictions generally and authority of town to impose certain speed
limits, see G.S. §§ 20-141, 20-144, 20-145, 20-169
§ 72.26  STOP BEFORE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   When stop signs are placed upon highways which intersect a through street,
as designated on the official traffic maps, every driver shall bring his or her
vehicle to a stop before entering the intersection, and he or she shall not
proceed into or across the through street until he or she has first determined
that no conflict with traffic will ensue.
(1977 Code, § 17-40)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.27  YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   When yield right-of-way signs have been placed at those intersections
designated as locations for the signs on the official traffic maps, no person
shall fail to yield the right-of-way at the signs before entering the
intersections.
(1977 Code, § 17-41)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to erect yield right-of-way signs, see G.S. § 20-158.1
§ 72.28  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets designated as one-way streets on
the official traffic maps of the town, no person shall operate a vehicle except
in the indicated direction when signs have been placed, erected or installed
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(1977 Code, § 17-42)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.29  SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or part thereof as a school zone, all drivers of motor vehicles using
any street or part thereof shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon the
street or part thereof, for the protection of children.
(1977 Code, § 17-43)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.30  LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PERSONS IN FRONT SEAT.
   No driver or other person in charge of any motor vehicle shall permit more
than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the front or driver's seat
of a motor vehicle.
(1977 Code, § 17-44)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Overloaded or overcrowded vehicles generally, see G.S. § 20-140.2
§ 72.31  TRUCKS RESTRICTED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a vehicle of any kind having a gross weight in excess of seven tons, upon, over
or across any street or alley in the city unless the street or alley is
designated as a "truck lane".
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked a
vehicle of any kind having a gross weight in excess of seven tons, upon any
street or alley in the city for a time in excess of two hours.
   (C)   In the event it is impossible for a vehicle having a gross weight in
excess of seven tons to reach its destination within the city by "truck lanes",
or if the vehicle is going to be parked upon a street or alley in excess of the
two-hour time limit, for any reason including loading, unloading and
incapacitation, then the operator(s) of the vehicle shall obtain permission
from the Chief of Police of the town or from one given authority by him or her
before operating the vehicle upon, over or across any street or alley not
designated as a "truck lane" or before parking the vehicle on any street or
alley in excess of the time limit.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and maintained at all
approaches to the parts of streets on which trucks are prohibited signs of
dimensions and at locations as shall be approved by him or her, directing that
no trucks are allowed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1977 Code, § 17-45)  (Ord. passed 3-22-1988)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.32  THROUGH TRUCKS TO REMAIN IN RIGHT LANE ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   All through trucks shall remain in the right lane on those portions of U.S.
Highway 158 (Roanoke Rapids Road) and Second and Third Streets within the town.
(1977 Code, § 17-46)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.33  USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS AND THE LIKE.
   No person on roller skates or riding in any coaster, toy vehicle or similar
device shall go upon any roadway, other than a street set aside as a play
street, except while crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection.
(1977 Code, § 17-47)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.34  ATTACHING BICYCLES AND THE LIKE TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the vehicle or himself or herself to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(1977 Code, § 17-48)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.35  RIDING ON HANDLEBARS OF BICYCLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No operator of a motorcycle or bicycle upon a street shall carry any
person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of his or her vehicle, nor shall any
person so ride upon any like vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall ride a motorcycle or bicycle on any street, alley or
highway in the town without having his or her hands upon the handlebars.
(1977 Code, § 17-49)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Stopping in streets generally
   
73.02   Standing so as to obstruct passage of other vehicles
   
73.03   Prohibited in specified places
   
73.04   Prohibited for certain purposes
   
73.05   Method of parking generally
   
73.06   Vehicles backed up to curb
   
73.07   Within lines
   
73.08   Parking over 12 inches from curb
   
73.09   Parking in more than one marked space
   
73.10   Reserved parking areas
   
73.11   Standing in street travel lanes
   
73.12   Lights on parked vehicles
   
73.13   Moving cars from parked positions
   
73.14   Moving vehicles of other operators into prohibited areas
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate on-street parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
   Off-street parking facilities, see G.S. § 160A-302
   Stopping, standing and parking generally, see G.S. §§ 20-161 to 20-163
§ 73.01  STOPPING IN STREETS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary:
      (1)   By the approach of fire apparatus;
      (2)   By the approach of a funeral or other procession which is given the
right-of-way;
      (3)   By the stopping of a public conveyance;
      (4)   By the lowering of railway gates;
      (5)   By countermanding traffic signals;
      (6)   By the passing of some other vehicle or a pedestrian; and/or
      (7)   By some emergency.
   (B)   In all cases covered by these exceptions, the vehicle shall stop so as
not to obstruct any footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street
intersection, if it can be avoided.
(1977 Code, § 17-50)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02  STANDING SO AS TO OBSTRUCT PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(1977 Code, § 17-51)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03  PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when conflict with
other traffic is imminent or when so directed by a police officer or traffic-
control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or on the space between the sidewalk and the curb;
   (B)   Within an intersection or within five feet of any intersection;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   On either side of any street leading to a railroad underpass or an
overhead bridge or within 50 feet in any direction of the outer edge of the
underpass or overhead bridge;
   (F)   On either side of any street leading to a grade crossing, within 50
feet of the closest rail. Where existing permanent structures are located
closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of the structures,
unless otherwise prohibited, and if the parking does not block the view in
either direction of the approach of a locomotive or train;
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, if the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (H)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (I)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building;
   (J)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing or parking at
the edge or curb of a street;
   (K)   Within 15 feet of any fire hydrant; or
   (L)   At those places specified on the official traffic maps and at which
signs are placed which prohibit parking or when the curbing has been painted
yellow in lieu of the signs.
(1977 Code, § 17-52)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04  PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons;
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has been
disconnected;
   (E)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another; or
   (F)   Advertising.
(1977 Code, § 17-53)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05  METHOD OF PARKING GENERALLY.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter, all vehicles shall park
parallel to the curb.
(1977 Code, § 17-55)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06  VEHICLES BACKED UP TO CURB.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except while
actually loading or unloading.
(1977 Code, § 17-56)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07  WITHIN LINES.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for vehicles, the same shall be parked between the lines.
(1977 Code, § 17-57)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08  PARKING OVER 12 INCHES FROM CURB.
   No person shall park a vehicle more than 12 inches from the curbing.
(1977 Code, § 17-58)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09  PARKING IN MORE THAN ONE MARKED SPACE.
   No person shall use more than one parking space on the streets marked for
angle or parallel parking.
(1977 Code, § 17-59)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10  RESERVED PARKING AREAS.
   When signs are posted at locations designated on the official traffic maps
giving notice thereof, no vehicle shall be parked in any area reserved for
buses, taxicabs, automobiles or public drays for hire or law enforcement
vehicles.
(1977 Code, § 17-60)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11  STANDING IN STREET TRAVEL LANES.
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle standing attended or unattended on the
travel lane of any street.
(1977 Code, § 17-61)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12  LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Parking lights upon a vehicle, when the vehicle is lawfully parked at night
on a street in accordance with this chapter, shall not be required,  except
where there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200
feet upon such highway or where specifically demanded by the town.
(1977 Code, § 17-62)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to enact ordinances dealing with lights on parked
vehicles, see G.S. § 20-134
§ 73.13  MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction in which they
are most nearly headed.
(1977 Code, § 17-63)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.14  MOVING VEHICLES OF OTHER OPERATORS INTO PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by him or her into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from a curb to make the distance unlawful.
(1977 Code, § 17-64)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74:  BICYCLES GENERALLY
Section
   
74.01   Signaling devices and other equipment
   
74.02   Riding on sidewalks and the like
   
74.03   Compliance with traffic regulations and signals
Cross-references:
   Prohibited operation of mini-bikes, go-carts and the like, see §§
72.02,
72.33,
72.34
   Riding on handlebars and the like of bicycles or riding without hands on
handlebars, see §
72.35
Statutory reference:
   State Bicycle and Bikeway Act of 1974, see G.S. §§ 136-71.6 to 136-71.13
§ 74.01  SIGNALING DEVICES AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Sirens or whistles. A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any
person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (B)   Brake. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
   (C)   Lights. Every bicycle operated on any street or sidewalk in the town,
during the period from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise, shall display at least one white light, visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front, and a red light or reflector on the rear, visible
from a distance of at least 200 feet.
(1977 Code, § 5-1)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Lamps and reflectors on bicycles, see G.S. § 20-129(e)
§ 74.02  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk or pedestrian walkway in
any area zoned for business in the town.
(1977 Code, § 5-2)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Driving on sidewalks generally, see §
72.03
§ 74.03  COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AND SIGNALS.
   Every person operating a bicycle shall observe traffic regulations and
traffic-control signals in the same manner as required of motor vehicles and
shall have the bicycle under complete control before entering any arterial
highway within the town.
(1977 Code, § 5-3)
Cross-reference:
   Applicability of provisions relative to motor vehicles and traffic to
persons riding bicycles, see §
70.06
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
         
91.   CEMETERIES
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
93.   LIBRARIES
         
94.   NOISE REGULATIONS
         
95.   PARADES; PICKETING; DEMONSTRATIONS
         
96.   GENERAL NUISANCES
         
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
Generally
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals
   
90.03   Inhumane treatment prohibited
   
90.04   Animals running at large
   
90.05   Keeping certain animals
   
90.06   Vicious animals
   
90.07   Impoundment of animals found in violation of chapter
   
90.08   Bird sanctuary
   
90.09   Grazing, tying up, feeding and the like animals on public or private
property
Dogs and Cats
   
90.20   Rabies vaccination required; vaccination tag
   
90.21   Dogs and cats running at large
   
90.22   Barking and howling dogs
   
90.23   Teasing, molesting or baiting
   
90.24   Stray dogs and cats; notice to police
   
90.25   Duties of police
   
90.26   Impoundment; destruction
   
90.27   Enforcement
   
90.28   Notification of injury by vehicle
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate dangerous animals, see G.S. § 160A-187
   Authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
GENERALLY
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Off the premises of the owner or other person having possession,
custody or control and not under control of that owner or other person, or a
member of his or her immediate family, by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
      (2)   Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when he or she is off the
property of his or her owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   CAT.  Both male and female cat.
   DOG.  Both male and female dog.
   KENNEL, DEALER, BREEDER or PET SHOP.  Any person, group of persons, firm,
partnership or corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding
animals.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal.
   RESTRAINT.  An animal is under RESTRAINT  if he or she is controlled by
means of a chain, leash or other like device; or is sufficiently near the owner
or handler to be under his or her direct control and is obedient to that
person's commands; or is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or is
within a secure enclosure.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.  An animal that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts of the skin; or who
habitually or repeatedly attacks farm stock or other pets.
(1977 Code, § 4-1)
§ 90.02  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to mistreat, drive or work, or allow to be worked
any beast of burden that is physically disabled for labor or work. It shall be
the duty of the Chief of Police, or any officer appointed by him or her, to
pass upon the physical condition and fitness of all beasts of burden for work
and to inspect them.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to work, or allow to be worked, any beast of
burden, or to compel it to work after having been notified by the Chief of
Police or the officer appointed by him or her to discontinue or stop the
working of that animal, or after any animal has been condemned.
(1977 Code, § 4-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to define, prohibit abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-182
§ 90.03  INHUMANE TREATMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep animals under unsanitary
or inhumane conditions; to fail to provide proper food and water daily, shelter
from the weather, reasonably clean quarters, and proper medical attention for
sick, diseased or injured animals, as well as adequate inoculation against
disease, according to the species of the animal kept.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal or to cause or procure that action.
      (2)   The words TORTURE, TORMENT or CRUELTY shall be held to include
every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering
or death is caused or permitted, but these terms shall not be construed to
prohibit proper authorities or their agents or veterinarians from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
(1977 Code, § 4-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person owning or having control of any animal or fowl, other than dogs
and cats which are covered by the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.28 below shall permit that animal or fowl to run at large within the
corporate limits.
(1977 Code, § 4-4)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit running at large of any domestic animal, see G.S. §
160A-186
§ 90.05  KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep any pigs, hogs, cows, horses, mules, sheep, goats or
chickens within the corporate limits.
(1977 Code, § 4-5)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce or dangerous
animal within the town corporate limits, unless it is confined within a secure
building or enclosure, or unless it is securely muzzled and under restraint by
a competent person who, by means of a leash, chain or rope, has the animal
firmly under control at all times.
(1977 Code, § 4-6)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS FOUND IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any animal which is found running at large or staked, hitched or fastened in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be seized and impounded by
the Police Department and delivered to the proper county authority.
(1977 Code, § 4-7)
§ 90.08  BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area within the corporate limits is hereby designated as a
bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to kill, trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or
molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests; provided, that this section shall not be construed as protecting any
birds classified as unprotected by the State Wildlife Commission or by law.
(1977 Code, § 4-8)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  GRAZING, TYING UP, FEEDING AND THE LIKE ANIMALS ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall stake or otherwise fasten any animal for grazing
purposes on any of the streets, sidewalks, parks, squares or cemeteries.
   (B)   No person shall feed any animal upon or in any of the streets,
sidewalks, parks or squares.
   (C)   No person shall graze or tie up on any vacant lot, within 50 feet of
any dwelling or street, any cattle, sheep or other animal.
(1977 Code, § 4-9)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.20  RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED; VACCINATION TAG.
   (A)   Every person owning, having or possessing any dog or cat, male or
female within the corporate limits shall have the same vaccinated to prevent
rabies each year or from time to time as provided by the General Statutes of
North Carolina, and any changes and amendments thereto.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the person to see that the metal tag is
furnished by the rabies inspector or veterinarian showing that the dog or cat
has been vaccinated, and that the serial number and the year issued is securely
fastened to and worn by the dog or cat at all times.
(1977 Code, § 4-19)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person having custody or
control of any dog or cat to knowingly suffer or permit any dog or cat to run
at large on the streets or sidewalks within the corporate limits, unless the
dog or cat shall be under the immediate control or restraint of an owner or
other competent person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody or
control of a dog or cat to knowingly permit the dog or cat to run at large
within the corporate limits on or upon the land or property of a person other
than the owner or person having custody of the dog or cat without the
permission of the owner of the land or property on or upon which any dog or cat
is running at large.
(1977 Code, § 4-20)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  BARKING AND HOWLING DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog within
the corporate limits when that dog habitually barks, howls or whines so as to
cause annoyance to persons residing within a reasonable distance of the
location where the dog is kept or maintained and when the barking, howling or
whining interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment of property owned or
occupied by persons living within a reasonable distance of the location where
the dog is kept or maintained.
   (B)   Upon a written and signed complaint being made to the Police
Department by any resident pursuant to division (A) above, and upon a
determination by the Police Department, after an investigation, that the
complaint is valid, a representative of the Police Department shall notify the
person against whom the complaint is directed that a complaint has been
received, and thereupon the person shall remedy the unlawful condition within
24 hours from the time of notification.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to remedy the unlawful condition found
to exist pursuant to this section within 24 hours from the time of notification
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 4-21)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  TEASING, MOLESTING OR BAITING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to tease,
molest or bait any dog or cat not belonging to that person or being legally
under the control of that person.
(1977 Code, § 4-22)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  STRAY DOGS AND CATS; NOTICE TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the corporate limits to knowingly and
intentionally harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement or otherwise, any
dog or cat which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within 24
hours from the time the dog or cat came into his or her possession, notified
the Police Department.
(1977 Code, § 4-23)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25  DUTIES OF POLICE.
   It is declared to be the duty of the Police Department when it is notified
or becomes aware of any dog or cat running at large in violation of §
90.21 above to ascertain by whatever available means the identity of the person
owning or having possession of that dog or cat found running at large and, upon
ascertaining the identity of the proper person, to notify that person that he
or she is in violation of §
90.21 above. Persons violating §
90.21 for the first time shall be issued a written notice of warning, persons
violating §
90.21 above for the second or subsequent times shall be deemed, upon
conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor, and that violation shall be punishable,
upon conviction, as provided in §
90.99.
(1977 Code, § 4-24)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26  IMPOUNDMENT; DESTRUCTION.
   If the identity of the person owning or having possession of a dog or cat
running at large within the corporate limits of the town cannot be reasonably
ascertained, the Police Department shall deliver the dog or cat to the proper
county authority, and the dog or cat shall be impounded. Any dog or cat found
running at large within the corporate limits of the town which presents a
dangerous and immediate threat to the health, safety and welfare of the public
in general and if the person owning or having possession of the dog or cat
cannot be immediately notified, then in that event, the dog or cat shall be
subject to impoundment by any available means or destruction by the Police
Department.
(1977 Code, § 4-25)
§ 90.27  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department and the Town Animal Control shall be charged with the
responsibility of enforcing laws, ordinances and resolutions relating to dogs
and cats, and to their care, custody and control.
(1977 Code, § 4-27)
§ 90.28  NOTIFICATION OF INJURY BY VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring a dog or cat, by running over
or into the same or coming into contact with the same with an automobile,
motorcycle, bicycle or other vehicle, to fail to notify immediately the owner
of the dog or the Town Police Department.
(1977 Code, § 4-26)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is specified shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not
to exceed $50.
   (B)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by injunction,
restraining order or order of abatement in a court of competent jurisdiction,
as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(d) and (e).
(1977 Code, § 4-99)
CHAPTER 91:  CEMETERIES
Section
Generally
   
91.01   Burial required
   
91.02   Reopening graves for interment of additional bodies
   
91.03   Disinterment permit
   
91.04   Depth of graves
   
91.05   Sizes and prices of lots
   
91.06   Damaging, defacing and the like
   
91.07   Sales of merchandise
   
91.08   Using as playgrounds
   
91.09   Discharge of firearms
   
91.10   Rules and regulations
Cemetery Commission
   
91.20   Created
   
91.21   Composition; appointment and terms of members
   
91.22   Duties generally
Cross-reference:
   Driving through funeral processions, see §
72.05
   Zoning generally, see
Chapter 155
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to cemeteries generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-341 to 160A-
348
   Cemeteries generally, see G.S. §§ 65-4 et seq.
GENERALLY
§ 91.01  BURIAL REQUIRED.
   No person shall bury or inter a human corpse except in the town cemeteries
or in church maintained cemeteries.
(1977 Code, § 7-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02  REOPENING GRAVES FOR INTERMENT OF ADDITIONAL BODIES.
   No grave shall be reopened for the interment therein of an additional body.
(1977 Code, § 7-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03  DISINTERMENT PERMIT.
   No person shall disinter the remains of any human body, without first having
obtained written permission from the proper authorities allowing the
disinterment.
(1977 Code, § 7-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04  DEPTH OF GRAVES.
   (A)   All graves over four and one-half feet in length shall be a minimum of
six feet in depth.
(1977 Code, § 7-4)
   (B)   All graves shall be dug and interments made in the manner prescribed
by the town. The depth of each grave shall be not less than four feet. The
uppermost part of a burial vault shall be a minimum of 18 inches below the
ground surface. (Senate Bill 506, May 1995).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05  SIZES AND PRICES OF LOTS.
   The sizes and prices of lots in the town cemeteries shall be as determined
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners. A current schedule of lot
sizes and corresponding prices shall be maintained on file in the office of the
Town Clerk and Treasurer.
(1977 Code, § 7-5)
§ 91.06  DAMAGING, DEFACING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No person shall in anyway disturb any grave, deface, pull up or
remove anything put or placed to mark a grave or for the ornamentation thereof
or any paling or wall around a grave or remove any plant, post or timbers in a
graveyard, except by order or with the permission of the person in charge of
the graveyard or of the owner of the grave.
      (2)   No person shall destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or remove any
tomb, monument, gravestone or other structure or thing placed in the
cemeteries, or any fence, railing or other work for the protection or
ornamentation of any tomb, monument, gravestone or other structure, or for the
ornamentation or protection of any cemetery, or unlawfully and wilfully
destroy, cut, break, remove or injure any tree, shrub or plant that may have
been planted or that may be growing in any cemetery, or commit any other
depredation within the limits of any cemetery.
   (B)   Fixtures. No person shall unlawfully and wilfully disturb or remove
any vase, jardiniere or other receptacle for flowers or shrubs or other thing
placed on or by any grave for the ornamentation thereof.
   (C)   Flowers. No person shall wantonly or wilfully injure or destroy any
flowers, either wild or cultivated, in any cemetery.
(1977 Code, § 7-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07  SALES OF MERCHANDISE.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any article of merchandise or any
fruit, drink or beverage or any other thing of value within the limits of any
cemetery.
(1977 Code, § 7-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08  USING AS PLAYGROUNDS.
   No person shall use any part of any cemetery as a playground.
(1977 Code, § 7-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Playing games in the streets, see §
97.11
§ 91.09  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall discharge any firearms in any cemetery, except for
authorized military funeral services.
(1977 Code, § 7-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Firing firearms for sport or amusement generally, see §
130.08
§ 91.10  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Lots and lot owners.
      (1)   Lots sold shall be duly recorded and platted in the office of the
Register of Deeds of Halifax County and a copy on file in the Town Clerk's
office.
      (2)   The grade of all lots is established by the town and no change will
be permitted.
      (3)   The lots are permanently marked, without expense to the purchaser,
with corner and number markers, defining the lot to correspond with the plat.
      (4)   A lot may be held in joint ownership, but in such case where one
co-owner is a non-resident, the lot shall be sold according to non-resident
price.
      (5)   No person will be recognized as owner or part owner of a lot unless
his or her name appears on the records on file in the Town Clerk's office.
      (6)   Each lot owner should immediately notify the Town Clerk of any
change of residential address.
      (7)   (a)   Lots in the cemetery are generally divided into four classes:
            1.   Single grave lots, approximately five feet by ten feet;
            2.   Two grave lots, approximately ten feet by ten feet;
            3.   Four grave lots, approximately ten feet by 20 feet;
            4.   Eight grave lots, approximately 20 feet by 20 feet.
         (b)   Eight grave lots may be divided in half and so sold by the town,
and each of the halves shall be designated by the letter A/B after the number
of the lot.
      (8)   A person has the option to purchase one, two, three or four lots.
No sale shall be made for more than four grave lots to any family household
without approval of Board of Commissioners.
      (9)   When the owner of the grave lot desires to assign or transfer to
another person to space owned by him or her, he or she shall obtain the
signature of the Town Clerk to the deed of transfer to the new owner. Transfer
from town to non-town residents shall require payment to the town of equal to
the difference in current town and non-town rates.
      (10)   Non-residents of the town may purchase lots in the town cemetery
according to the price schedule set by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Funeral an interments.
      (1)   Funerals, while withing in town cemeteries, will be under the
control of the Cemetery Supervisor or one of his or her assistants.
      (2)   If an owner requests additional burial space on any lot and space
is available, the current fees for a single grave site shall be charged at the
time of the opening.
      (3)   No interment will be permitted without proper death certificate or
burial permit as required by the health authorities.
      (4)   The town may require of any person, not the lot owner, authority
satisfactory to it before permitting the opening of a grave or an interment.
The town shall not be liable for the opening of a grave or an interment which
it permits, relying on good faith upon the application of any member of the lot
owner's family or other person apparently acting upon the proper authority.
      (5)   The town shall be notified promptly of the hour fixed for
interments, and if necessary, on account of previous conflicting arrangements,
the town may require the hour to be changed.
      (6)   Not more than one body shall be interred in one grave, except a
parent and an infant child, an adult and one cremation, two children buried at
the same time in one casket, or two cremations in one grave. If the burial of
cremated remains is to be on an occupied grave site, then the standard fee for
a single grave shall not be charged.
      (7)   All graves when thoroughly settled will be sodded or seeded without
charge to the lot owner, and shall be level with the surrounding lawn.
      (8)   Funeral home directors shall be responsible for settlement of
graves for a period of 30 days.
      (9)   Scattering of ashes across the grave site is prohibited.
      (10)   All cremations shall be placed in a town approved container, and
the uppermost part of the burial container shall have a minimum of 18 inches of
cover.
   (C)   Disinterments and removals.
      (1)   All disinterments shall be performed according to cemetery
supervision at the expense of the lot owner, and only upon written consent of
the lot owner, the town and the nearest living relative or relatives of the
person or persons whose remains are to be disinterred.
      (2)   Remains removed from other cemeteries must be accompanied by the
proper papers as required by law.
      (3)   In the case of disinterment for the removal of remains from the
cemetery, no allowance will be made on the grave vacated and the regular charge
shall be made for the disinterment.
CEMETERY COMMISSION
§ 91.20  CREATED.
   A Cemetery Commission is hereby created.
(1977 Code, § 7-10)
§ 91.21  COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The Cemetery Commission shall consist of five members, who shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners. One of the members shall be appointed
for a term of one year, one for a term of two years, one for a term of three
years, one for a term of four years and one for a term of five years.
(1977 Code, § 7-11)
§ 91.22  DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Cemetery Commission shall supervise and maintain all town-owned
cemeteries, subject to the control of the Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 7-12)
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Unauthorized riding on Fire Department apparatus
   
92.02   Following or passing fire apparatus; parking near fire
   
92.03   Driving over fire hose
   
92.04   False fire alarms
   
92.05   Interfering with firefighters generally; using or damaging Fire
Department equipment
   
92.06   Congregating near fires
   
92.07   Outside burning; generally
   
92.08   Fires on woodlands or public property; guard
   
92.09   Flammable fluids; selling of
   
92.10   Duty of persons loading/unloading to stay in vicinity
   
92.11   Substances subject to spontaneous combustion
   
92.12   Chimneys, smokestacks and the like
   
92.13   Obstructing exists, passageways and the like
   
92.14   Fire extinguishers
Fire Department
   
92.25   Composition
   
92.26   Authority at fires
   
92.27   Appointment of Fire Chief
   
92.28   Duties of Fire Chief; generally
   
92.29   Inspections, records and reports
   
92.30   Assistant Chief
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.45   Adopted; where copies filed
   
92.46   Municipality defined
   
92.47   Enforcement
   
92.48   Modifications
   
92.49   Appeals
   
92.50   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  UNAUTHORIZED RIDING ON FIRE DEPARTMENT APPARATUS.
   No person, except a member of the Fire Department, shall ride on any truck,
vehicle or apparatus of the Department, except by permission of the Fire Chief.
(1977 Code, § 10-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Buildings generally, see
Chapter 150
   Fire limits, see §
150.03
   Plumbing generally, see
Chapter 112
   Police generally, see
Chapter 37
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to fire protection generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 to
160A-293
   Fire protection generally, see G.S. Ch. 58, Arts., 79 through 83
   Rural fire protection districts, see G.S. § 69-25.1 through 69-25.17
§ 92.02  FOLLOWING OR PASSING FIRE APPARATUS; PARKING NEAR FIRE.
   No person shall follow any fire apparatus which is responding to a call, in
an automobile or any other vehicle, unless the following vehicle is used for
transporting firefighters to the scene of fire, at a distance closer than one
town block, or pass the apparatus or park within the same block in which the
fire is in progress.
(1977 Code, § 10-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Following, parking near and the like fire apparatus generally, see G.S. §
20-157(b)
§ 92.03  DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any hose of the Fire Department, when it is
being used at any fire or elsewhere, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(1977 Code, § 10-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving over fire hose, see G.S. § 20-157(d)
§ 92.04  FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall give or cause to be given any false alarm of fire.
(1977 Code, § 10-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   False fire alarms, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 92.05  INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS GENERALLY; USING OR DAMAGING FIRE
DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall interfere with the activities of the
firefighting crew, or use or damage any apparatus of the Fire Department,
including fire hydrants.
(1977 Code, § 10-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see G.S. § 58-82-1
§ 92.06  CONGREGATING NEAR FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to congregate on the streets, alleys or squares near a
fire in a manner which would interfere with the activities of the Fire
Department.
(1977 Code, § 10-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  OUTSIDE BURNING; GENERALLY.
   No outside burning, exclusive of small fires for cooking purposes only,
shall be permitted within the town for any purpose whatsoever, without prior
permission of the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
(1977 Code, § 10-19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08  FIRES ON WOODLANDS OR PUBLIC PROPERTY; GUARD.
   (A)   No person shall maintain fires on any woodlands or public property,
except by consent of the Mayor or the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   No person shall maintain fires on any property, unless someone has
been placed on guard to prevent an undue spread of the fire.
(1977 Code, § 10-20)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09  FLAMMABLE FLUIDS; SELLING OF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the sale of any flammable
fluids at any establishment in the town that does not have an attendant on duty
at the time that the sale is made.
   (B)   Each sale shall constitute a separate offense.
(1977 Code, § 10-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10  DUTY OF PERSONS LOADING/UNLOADING TO STAY IN VICINITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, who is loading or unloading flammable
fluids at any establishment in the town, to leave the immediate vicinity while
the loading or unloading is in progress.
(1977 Code, § 10-22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11  SUBSTANCES SUBJECT TO SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION.
   (A)   Ashes, smoldering coals or embers, greasy or oily substances and all
other matter which is subject to spontaneous combustion, unless kept in
metallic or noncombustible receptacles, shall not be deposited within 15 feet
of any wooden or plastered wall, partition, fence, wooden floor, rubbish or
other combustible material.
   (B)   The receptacles, unless resting on the ground outside of a building,
shall be placed in noncombustible stands and shall be kept free from any wall
or partition by at least two feet.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the deposit of cold or wet
ashes and cinders for purposes of improving an unpaved alley or walkway.
(1977 Code, § 10-23)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12  CHIMNEYS, SMOKESTACKS AND THE LIKE.
   All chimneys, smokestacks or similar devices for conveying smoke or gases to
the outer air from stoves, furnaces, fireboxes or ovens shall not only be
constructed and located in accordance with the Town Building Code, but shall
also be maintained in a manner so that they do not endanger adjacent property
or create a fire hazard.
(1977 Code, § 10-24)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13  OBSTRUCTING EXITS, PASSAGEWAYS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall obstruct in any way any fire escape, balcony or
ladder intended as a means of escape from fire, or the passageways, doors and
aisles in theaters, churches and other places of public assemblage.
      (2)   The latter shall be well lighted for the entire duration of shows,
balls and the like.
   (B)   All exit doors shall open outward and shall be so fastened as to be
easily opened from within.
(1977 Code, § 10-25)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.14  FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Hand or other portable fire extinguishers shall be installed and maintained
in sufficient number in every store, factory, garage or other public place.
(1977 Code, § 10-26)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.25  COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, an Assistant Chief and a
sufficient number of voluntary, part-time or full-time firefighters to maintain
and operate the Department.
(1977 Code, § 10-7)
§ 92.26  AUTHORITY AT FIRES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or his or her designated agent shall
be the officer in command at the scene of a fire, and his or her commands shall
be promptly obeyed.
   (B)   The officer in command shall have authority to summon aid, and no
citizen so summoned may refuse help in extinguishing the fire or in protecting
exposed property.
   (C)   During the continuance of a fire the Fire Chief, his or her assistant
or the Mayor shall have authority to call upon any citizen to render assistance
in pulling down or demolishing any building or in removing goods or furniture
from a building on fire or in danger of fire. No building may be pulled down or
in any way destroyed by anyone without the advice and consent of the majority
of the members of the Board of Commissioners as may be present, or if none are
present, without the consent of the officer of the Fire Department or the
Police Department who may be in charge.
   (D)   In the event of an alarm of fire, the apparatus of the Fire Department
responding to the alarm shall have the right-of-way in and upon all streets,
lanes, alleys, squares and railroad crossings.
(1977 Code, § 10-8)
§ 92.27  APPOINTMENT OF FIRE CHIEF.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners after their election and
qualification or as soon thereafter as possible, the Board shall appoint a Fire
Chief.
(1977 Code, § 10-9)
§ 92.28  DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF; GENERALLY.
   The Fire Chief shall:
   (A)   Supervise and direct the extinguishing of fires;
   (B)   Preserve and keep safe all equipment of the Fire Department;
   (C)   Compel, when necessary, all officers of the town or other persons to
aid in the extinguishing of fires;
   (D)   Enforce all rules and provisions of this code, and other ordinances
relative to fire prevention;
   (E)   Perform the duties assigned to the Fire Inspector;
   (F)   Inspect all equipment of the Fire Department and report all needed
repairs to the Board of Commissioners;
   (G)   Report all violations of this chapter or any other fire prevention
provisions;
   (H)   Annually report to the Board of Commissioners the names, residences
and occupations of all firefighters, the number and locality of fires which
have occurred during the year, the causes thereof if they can be ascertained,
the name of the owner and the value of the property destroyed, insurance
coverage and other matters pertaining to the Fire Department, its organization
and operation as he or she deems best; and
   (I)   Do other and further things necessary for the proper and efficient
operation of his or her Department and for the prevention of fire.
(1977 Code, § 10-10)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief generally, see G.S. § 160A-292
§ 92.29  INSPECTIONS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Generally. Subject to supervision by the Mayor or the Board of
Commissioners, the Fire Chief shall be the Fire Inspector. As such, he or she
or his or her designated agent shall have authority to enter all premises at
any reasonable time for the purposes of inspection.
   (B)   Routine inspections.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall make monthly inspections of all boarding
houses and other buildings which are two or more stories in height.
      (2)   He or she shall make an annual inspection of all other structures
located within the fire district.
   (C)   Inspections upon complaint. The Fire Chief shall, upon receipt of a
complaint, forthwith investigate.
   (D)   Investigations, records and reports of causes of fires. The Fire Chief
shall investigate the causes of fires and shall keep records of his or her
findings as to origin, location, owner, extent of damage and injury and amount
of insurance carried. These findings shall be reported to the State Insurance
Commissioner at regular intervals.
   (E)   Orders to remove fire hazards. The Fire Chief shall cause the removal
of fire hazards by serving proper order to the owner of the premises in
question or his or her agent, the order to state a reasonable time limit.
Failure to comply with the order shall be considered a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 10-11)
§ 92.30  ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform all
duties required of and shall be clothed with the same authority as the Chief.
(1977 Code, § 10-12)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.45  ADOPTED; WHERE COPIES FILED.
   There is hereby adopted by the Board of Commissioners, for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code of
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the current edition
thereof and the whole thereof, save and except those portions as may be
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three
copies are filed in the office of the Town Clerk and Treasurer, and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the town.
(1977 Code, § 10-13)
Cross-references:
   Building Code, see §
150.04
   Electrical Code, see §
150.05
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to adopt certain published technical codes by reference,
see G.S. § 160A-76
§ 92.46  MUNICIPALITY DEFINED.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall
be held to mean the Town of Weldon.
(1977 Code, § 10-14)
§ 92.47  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Prevention Code adopted in this chapter shall be enforced by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
(1977 Code, § 10-15)
§ 92.48  MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code;
provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of the modification, when granted or allowed, and the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be entered upon the
records of the Department, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(1977 Code, § 10-16)
§ 92.49  APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Fire Prevention Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the code has been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Board of
Commissioners within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1977 Code, § 10-17)
§ 92.50  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by the Board of Commissioners or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally, for each
violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in §
10.99. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue, and all those persons shall be required to
correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not
otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1977 Code, § 10-18)
CHAPTER 93:  LIBRARIES
Section
   
93.01   Free public library established
   
93.02   Library trustees
Cross-references:
   Fire prevention generally, see
Chapter 92
   Zoning generally, see
Chapter 155
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to libraries generally, see G.S. §§ 153A-261 to 153A-
271
§ 93.01  FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   A free public library is hereby established.
(1977 Code, § 15-1)
§ 93.02  LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
   The library trustees shall consist of six members, elected by the Board of
Commissioners for terms as follows: two for two years, two for four years and
two for six years. Thereafter, the trustees shall be replaced or reappointed
for the same term they previously had or their predecessors had. The library
trustees shall have powers and duties as may be delegated to them by the Board
of Commissioners, pursuant to G.S. § 153A-266.
(1977 Code, § 15-2)
CHAPTER 94:  NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Loud, disturbing noises prohibited, generally
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Noise measurement
   
94.04   Particular sounds prohibited
   
94.05   Sounds impacting residential life
   
94.06   Amplified sound
   
94.07   Permits
   
94.08   Motor vehicles
   
94.09   Exceptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 94.01  LOUD, DISTURBING NOISES PROHIBITED, GENERALLY.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
94.03 through
94.09, it shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating any
unreasonably loud, disturbing noise in the town taking into consideration the
volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics of the sound.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMPLIFIED SOUND.  Any sound using amplifying equipment, whose source is
outside or whose source is inside and the sound propagates to the outside or to
other dwellings or interior locations under separate ownership or occupancy.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL.  The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighing network. The level so read is
designated dB(A).
   DECIBEL (dB).  A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micronewtons per square meter.
   EMERGENCY WORK.  Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
existing or imminent peril.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  Any vehicle propelled on land by a motor, such
as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semi-trailers,
campers, go-carts, automobiles, motorcycles or buses. It shall exclude trains
and emergency response vehicles, such as police, fire and rescue vehicles.
   NOISE.  Unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels taking into consideration
the volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics of the sound.
   NOISE CONTROL OFFICER.  Any police officer or other person so designated by
the Town Board or the Mayor.
   PERSON.  Any individual, association, partnership or corporation including
any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentally of the United
States, the state or any political subdivision thereof.
   SLOW RESPONSE.  A measuring technique to obtain an average value when
measuring a noise level that fluctuates over a range of four dB or more. By way
of illustration only, a sound level meter set on SLOW RESPONSE would record a
sound level between two and six decibels less than the reading for a steadying
signal of the same frequency and amplitude when a tone of 1,000 Hz and for a
duration of one-half second is applied.
   SOUND.  An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression, and rarefaction of that medium. The description of SOUND may
include any characteristic of the sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
   SOUND LEVEL.  The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
sound level meter and frequency weighing network, such as A, B or C as
specified in American National Standards Institute Specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI S1.41971 or the latest approved version thereof). If the
frequency weighing employed is not indicated, the A-weighing shall apply.
   SOUND-LEVEL METER.  An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier,
RSM detector, integrator or time average, output meter and weighing network
used to measure sound pressure levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.  Twenty times the logarithms to the base ten of the
ratio of the root mean squared (RMS) sound pressure to the reference pressure
of 20 micronewtons per square meter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.03  NOISE MEASUREMENT.
   For the purpose of determining db(A)s as referred to in this chapter, sound
levels shall be measured on the A-weighing scale on a sound level meter of
standard design and quality having characteristics established by the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.04  PARTICULAR SOUNDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following acts and activities, among others, are hereby declared
to be unreasonably loud and disturbing sound levels in violation of §
94.01 above.
   (B)   This enumeration shall not be construed to be an exclusive list of
activities or acts which violate §
94.01 above:
      (1)   The use of any gong, bell or siren upon any motor vehicle;
      (2)   The keeping of any animal or bird which makes frequent or long
continued sounds, so that a reasonably prudent person would recognize as likely
to unreasonably disturb the comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity;
      (3)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (4)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat engine,
except through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents
unreasonably loud and disturbing or explosive sounds therefrom;
      (5)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the sounds created effectively muffled and reduced;
      (6)   The sounding of any chime, bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of any person in the vicinity
thereof;
      (7)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of a residential neighborhood; and
      (8)   The firing or discharging of any kind of gun and the firing,
discharge or ignition of squibs, firecrackers, gunpowder or other pyrotechnics,
except with a permit as set forth in §
94.07 below, which shall be subject to the approval of the Chief of Police,
provided that squibs, firecrackers and other pyrotechnics may only be fired,
discharged or ignited at public events.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  SOUNDS IMPACTING RESIDENTIAL LIFE.
   (A)   The following acts and activities shall be unlawful in any
residentially zoned area of the town or within 300 feet of any occupied
residential structure in all zoning districts of the town:
      (1)   Operating a front-end loader or other truck for refuse collection
except on Monday through Friday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
The violator is the operator of the front-end loader or truck, the employer of
the operator or the person which possesses or controls the front-end loader or
truck used by the operator;
      (2)   Performing construction work or operating construction machinery
except on Monday through Friday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on Saturdays and holidays
which are observed by the state, except in the case except in the case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only
with a permit as set forth in §
94.07 below, which permit may be issued for periods up to seven days. There
shall be no construction work on Sunday;
      (3)   Operating any garage or service station so as to cause unreasonably
loud, disturbing sound to be emitted between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. on any day;
      (4)   Operating lawn mowers and other motor driven domestic tools out-of-
doors between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day; and
      (5)   Creating or causing any sounds to be created or emitted which
sounds register more than 60 db(A) at any point on or within the nearest
complainant's property line.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to: acts and activities which are carried
on in a manner or in a location so as not to create sound exceeding 60 db(A)
within any residentially zoned area or within 300 feet of any occupied
residential structure in all zoning districts; or to any emergency operations
designed to protect the public health or safety.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification equipment
so as to create sounds registering 60 db(A) or greater between the hours of 9:
00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or 50 db(A) or greater between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
as measured anywhere within the boundary line of the nearest residentially
occupied property, except in accordance with a permit obtained from the town.
To determine if this limit is being exceeded, sounds may be measured from any
point on or within the property line of the nearest residentially occupied
property;
      (2)   As to multi-family structures, including town homes, apartments,
condominiums or other residential structures or arrangements where property
line cannot readily be determined, it shall be unlawful to operate or allow the
operation of any sound amplification equipment so as to create sounds
registering 60 db(A) or greater between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or 50 db(A) or
greater between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., as measured from any
point within the interior of another residential unit in the same complex or
within the boundary line of the nearest residentially occupied property, except
in accordance with a permit obtained from the town;
      (3)   As to places of public entertainment, to operate or allow the
operation of any sound amplification equipment so as to create sounds
registering more than 65 db(A) between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or 50 db(A)
between 9:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. as measured anywhere within the boundary line
of the nearest residentially occupied property, hotel, motel, hospital or rest
home, except in accordance with a permit obtained from the town;
      (4)   Operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification equipment
for advertising purposes or otherwise to attract customers so as to cast sounds
which are unreasonably loud and disturbing or which register more than 60 db(A)
at or on the boundary of the nearest public right-of-way or park; or
      (5)   Operate or allow the operation for personal use of any sound
amplification equipment on the public right-of-way, including streets or
sidewalks, or in the public parks so as to produce sounds registering more than
60 db(A) at any point 50 feet or more from any electro-mechanical speaker
emitting sound between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or 50 db(A) 50
feet or more from any electro-mechanical speaker between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations on the operation of sound amplification
equipment shall not apply to the operation of horns, siren, loud speakers or
other emergency warning devices actually being used in emergency circumstances.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07  PERMITS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   The application for a permit under §
94.04(B)(8) above, or for additional amplification under §
94.06(A)(1) above, shall be submitted to the Noise Control Officer at least 15
working days in advance of the planned use, except in case of emergency.
      (2)   The application for a permit to perform construction work under §
94.05(A)(2) above shall be submitted to the Town Clerk.
      (3)   The application shall designate an individual person or persons who
shall be in control of the amplification in the case of a permit for §
94.06(A)(1) above; in control of the firing or discharge of a gun or
pyrotechnics in the case of a permit under §
94.04(B)(8) above; in control of the construction in the case of permit under §
94.05(A)(2) above, and who shall be responsible for seeing that the activity
complies with the terms of the permit.
   (B)   Notice of tentative approval.
      (1)   In the case of permits for additional sound amplification pursuant
to §
94.06(A)(1) above, if the permit is tentatively approved, the applicant shall
be responsible for mailing or otherwise delivering to the occupants of each
property within a 1,000-foot radius of the property or facility for which the
permit has been granted, as shown on the county tax maps, a notice on a form
provided by the Noise Control Officer showing the date and hours of the event.
      (2)   The notice shall be delivered at least 72 hours in advance of the
event. The permit will not be approved and issued by the town until the
applicant submits an affidavit to the Noise Control Officer confirming that the
notices have actually been mailed or otherwise delivered.
   (C)   Number of hours.
      (1)   In the case of excess amplification under §
94.06(A)(1) above, no permits shall be issued which shall have the effect of
allowing more than 20 hours of excess amplification per year at any place of
public entertainment or ten hours of excess amplification at any other
location.
      (2)   Permits shall be tentatively approved and subsequently granted by
the Noise Control Officer in the order of receipt unless permits for 20 or more
hours have previously been issued for the same or other locations within a
1,000-foot radius of the facility in the same calendar year, in which event the
applicant shall elect whether to limit his or her request so as to keep the
year's accumulated hours of excess amplification in that location between 20
hours or select another location.
   (D)   Not permitted in residentially occupied boundaries. In no event shall
a permit be granted which allows the creation of sounds registering more than
70 db(A) at any point on or within the boundary line of the nearest
residentially occupied property.
   (E)   Denial; exceptional permit.
      (1)   If an applicant has been denied a permit under this section and
believes the denial is illegal by virtue of applicable state or federal law,
the applicant shall promptly submit a copy of the denied permit application
together with a short statement of the reasons the applicant believes he or she
is entitled to a permit to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall have discretion to grant an exceptional permit
waiving locational, time and/or db(A) requirements, upon the determination of
the Town Manager that the applicant has made a substantial showing of legal
entitlement. Any such exception permit shall be promptly reported to the Town
Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.08  MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any motor vehicle
in the town:
   (A)   Which has had its muffler-exhaust and/or other noise-control equipment
removed, altered or maintained in disrepair as to create unreasonable loud and
disturbing noises;
   (B)   By engaging in jackrabbit starts, spinning tires, racing engines or
other operations which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises;
   (C)   Off the boundaries of a public street for racing or other operations
which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises; or
   (D)   The amplified sound produced by a radio, tape player, compact disk
player or other sound making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle
so that the sound is:
      (1)   Plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the motor
vehicle; or
      (2)   Louder than necessary for the convenient hearing by the persons
inside the vehicle in areas adjoining churches, schools or hospitals. This
division (D)(2) shall not apply to motor vehicles used for business or
political purposes which, in the normal course of conducting business, use
sound making devices.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09  EXCEPTIONS.
   The following acts and activities are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Sound emanating from scheduled outdoor athletic events;
   (B)   Noise of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief
valves and all church bells. For purposes of this section, the term CHURCH
BELLS shall not include electronic devices or artificial sound reproduction
systems intended to sound like church bells;
   (C)   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle;
   (D)   Noise resulting from parades, lawful picketing or other public
demonstrations protected by the U.S. Constitution or federal law, or for which
a local permit has been granted by the town, provided the activity is of a
temporary duration lasting no longer than two hours during any 24-hour period.
Regulation of noise emanating from activities under permit shall be according
to the conditions and limits stated in this chapter and according to any
additional conditions stated on the permit;
   (E)   Unamplified and amplified sound at street fairs or other celebrations
conducted, sponsored or sanctioned by the town;
   (F)   Unamplified and amplified sound at community concerts conducted,
sponsored or sanctioned by the town;
   (G)   Noise from noisemakers on holidays and fireworks on holidays or at
times allowed under a pyrotechnics permit issued pursuant to G.S. Ch. 14, Art.
54;
   (H)   All noise coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
aircraft, but not including scale model aircraft;
   (I)   Lawn mowers and agricultural equipment used between daylight hours 7:
00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturer's standard
mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (J)   Practice sessions or performances by marching bands;
   (K)   All noise emissions from the operation of railroads are governed under
the Noise Control Act of 1972, 42 U.S.C. § 4916(c) and the regulations
promulgated thereunder in 40 C.F.R. Part 201;
   (L)   Emergency work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an existing or
imminent peril; and
   (M)   Noise created by the normal operations of the Parks and Recreation,
Police, Public Works and Utilities Departments of the town including firearms
training for police officers.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty in the amount of $100 per day the violation continues to be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within 72 hours of receipt of the citation by the
offender. A police officer, Noise Control Officer or Animal Control Officer may
issue a citation.
   (B)   Criminal penalty. In addition to, or in lieu of, the civil penalties
or other remedies, violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor,
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175 and G.S. § 14-4, as amended, punishable for each
day the violation continues by a fine of up to $500 and/or incarceration for up
to 30 days. A police officer or Animal Control Officer may initiate the
criminal process.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 95:  PARADES; PICKETING; DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
Parades, Processions and Meetings
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Permit; required
   
95.03   Application; authority of Police Chief to designate route of parade or
procession and the like
   
95.04   Interfering with, addressing abusive language to participants and the
like
   
95.05   Conduct; generally
   
95.06   Abusive and the like, language by participants
Picketing
   
95.20   Permitted; conditions
   
95.21   Interference with pickets
   
95.22   Authority of police
   
95.23   Maintenance of free passage
PARADES, PROCESSIONS AND MEETINGS
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING.  Any assembly together or concert of action between or among five
or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making known any
position or promotion of those persons, or of or on behalf of any organization
or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to the
assembly.
   PARADE or PROCESSION.  Any assemblage of five or more persons participating
in, or three or more vehicles being operated in, any march, ceremony, show,
exhibition or procession of any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks,
alleys, parks or other public grounds or places, not including a bona fide
funeral procession.
(1977 Code, § 21-11)
§ 95.02  PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No procession or parade shall occupy, march or proceed along any street,
sidewalk or any other public place, nor shall any person conduct any public or
private meeting on any street, sidewalk or other public place in the town,
except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and other
regulations as are set forth in this chapter which may apply.
(1977 Code, § 21-12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03  APPLICATION; AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF TO DESIGNATE ROUTE OF PARADE OR
PROCESSION AND THE LIKE.
   A written application shall be made to the Chief of Police by any person
desiring to have a parade, procession or meeting, setting forth the object,
time, place and route of the parade or procession or the object, time and place
of the meeting. The Chief of Police shall have authority to designate the route
of the parade or procession and the portion of the streets or other public
places to be used in a way so as to avoid as much as possible the obstruction
or impediment of public travel or public business. The Chief of Police may
refuse to issue a permit for a parade, procession or meeting, unless
application therefor is filed with him or her at least 24 hours before the time
thereof. In the absence of the Chief of Police, the ranking officer of the
Police Department present shall act in his or her name and stead. If the
parade, procession, or meeting violates the noise control ordinance of the town
(Chapter 94 of this Code), a noise permit must also be obtained.
(1977 Code, § 21-13)
§ 95.04  INTERFERING WITH, ADDRESSING ABUSIVE LANGUAGE TO PARTICIPANTS AND THE
LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
processions, marches or meetings, or with the persons lawfully engaged therein
in the use of any street, sidewalk or other public place, or to address
profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language or other fighting words to
or at the participants, which would tend to provoke the participants or others
to a breach of the peace.
(1977 Code, § 21-15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05  CONDUCT; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any parade,
procession or meeting of a character, extent and duration, or of a nature, so
as to create a public disturbance, to operate as a nuisance or to tend to
create or threaten rioting, disorderly conduct or public or private mischief.
(1977 Code, § 21-16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06  ABUSIVE AND THE LIKE, LANGUAGE BY PARTICIPANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting or participating in any
parade, procession or meeting to address profane, indecent, abusive or
threatening language or other fighting words to or at any person, which would
tend to provoke the person or others to a breach of the peace.
(1977 Code, § 21-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PICKETING
§ 95.20  PERMITTED; CONDITIONS.
   Peaceful picketing, including demonstrating, in the furtherance of a lawful
purpose shall be permitted in the town, provided the same is done under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Picketing shall be conducted only on the sidewalks or other town owned
area normally used or reserved for pedestrian movement, including easements and
rights-of-way, and shall not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use the sidewalks within one block in the town at any one time.
   (C)   The pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding two feet in width and two feet in height promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done; provided, that the words used are not defamatory
in nature and would not tend to produce violence. The staff on which the
placard is carried shall not exceed 40 inches in length, must be made of wood,
shall not exceed three-fourths of an inch in diameter at any point and must be
blunt at each end.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and may not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and the use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis, but each group shall
be permitted to picket subject to the provisions of this section at least once
every two hours.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any picket to address profane, indecent,
abusive or threatening language to or at any person, which would tend to
provoke the person or others to a breach of the peace.
(1977 Code, § 21-18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21  INTERFERENCE WITH PICKETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with pickets in
the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening
language to or at the pickets, which would tend to provoke the pickets or
others to a breach of the peace.
(1977 Code, § 21-19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.22  AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The police officers of the town may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in numbers as to tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful
objective, through numbers alone or through the use of inflammatory words,
direct the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest any person who
fails to absent himself or herself from the place of the assemblage when so
directed by the police.
(1977 Code, § 21-20)
§ 95.23  MAINTENANCE OF FREE PASSAGE.
   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall be
obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing the crowd shall disperse or move
on when so directed by a police officer as provided in §
95.22 above.
(1977 Code, § 21-21)
CHAPTER 96:  GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
Generally
   
96.01   Nuisances declared; enumeration
   
96.02   Investigation
   
96.03   Notification of property owner or occupant; failure or refusal to
abate; abatement by town generally
   
96.04   Costs of abatement by town to be billed to property owner
   
96.05   Lien
   
96.06   Provisions of chapter cumulative
   
96.07   Right to appeal
Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
96.20   Administration
   
96.21   Definitions
   
96.22   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
96.23   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
96.24   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
96.25   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
96.26   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
96.27   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
96.28   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
96.29   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
96.30   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
96.31   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
96.32   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
96.33   Exceptions
   
96.34   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Boarded up Structures
   
96.45   Purpose and authority
   
96.46   Definitions
   
96.47   Requirements; time limit
   
96.48   Grace period
   
96.49   Registration
   
96.50   Notices
   
96.51   Violations
   
96.52   Not an infraction or misdemeanor
   
96.53   Notice of violation; penalties
   
96.54   Adjudicatory hearing
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Animals and fowl generally, see
Chapter 90
   Garbage and refuse, see
Chapter 50
   Noises generally, see
Chapter 94
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. §
160A-193
GENERALLY
§ 96.01  NUISANCES DECLARED; ENUMERATION.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of eight inches, causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, junk, building materials such as
lumber, bricks, steel, parts and the like, and related products not being used
for specific building project at the present time/requiring building permits,
tires or related car parts, fencing not being used for a specific use which
causes or threatens to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause
the accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or
may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health. Above items (in divisions
(A) through (C)) are not allowed to remain on residential property unless
stored in a closed building in the backyard;
   (D)   No household furniture such as sofas, chairs, tables, washers, dryers,
refrigerators and all other appliances and the like, will not be allowed on the
front porch or in the front yard. No exercise equipment, including, but not
limited to, weight benches, weights, barbells, exercise bicycles, treadmills
and the like will not be allowed on the front porch or in the front yard. Solid
heating fuel including, but not limited to, wood, coal and the like, shall be
stored in back yard, either in an enclosed building or screened from public
view with appropriate screening;
   (E)   Properties must be kept maintained by removal of all underbrush, tree
stumps and fallen trees. Removal of dead standing trees/limbs that are a safety
hazard to the public, streets and adjoining properties; and
   (F)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
(1977 Code, § 19-1)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02  INVESTIGATION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notice from any person of the existence of any
of the conditions described in §
96.01 above, shall cause to be made by the appropriate county health department
or town official an investigation as may be necessary to determine whether, in
fact, the conditions exist as to constitute a public nuisance as described in §
96.01 above.
(1977 Code, § 19-2)
§ 96.03  NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY OWNER OR OCCUPANT; FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO
ABATE; ABATEMENT BY TOWN GENERALLY.
   (A)   Upon a determination that conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Building Inspector shall notify, in writing, the owner occupant or
person in possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting
the public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within three
days from receipt of the written notice.
   (B)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within three days from receipt of the order, the Building Inspector shall cause
the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the
town go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Mayor.
   (C)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within
the time allowed by this section, request the town, in writing, to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(1977 Code, § 19-3)
§ 96.04  COSTS OF ABATEMENT BY TOWN TO BE BILLED TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land upon
which the nuisance exists. It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to mail a
statement of the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the
premises, with instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days
from receipt thereof.
(1977 Code, § 19-4)  (Ord. passed 1-11-2021)
§ 96.05  LIEN.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
96.04 above, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where
the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided
in G.S. § 160A-193.
(1977 Code, § 19-5)
§ 96.06  PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER CUMULATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may exist under law for the abatement of public nuisances, and
this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a criminal action
against any person violating the provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
(1977 Code, § 19-6)
§ 96.07  RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   If any citizen feels that compliance with this subchapter would cause an
undue burden on them, they can appeal to the Town Board of Commissioners and
they will address each appeal on an individual basis.
(1977 Code, § 19-7)
ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 96.20  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and Town Building Inspector of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be "abandoned" on the public
streets and highways within the town, and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Town Building Inspector shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of "abandoned", "nuisance" or "junked motor vehicles"
located on private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking:
      (2)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Building Inspector, respectively, designated to authorize the removal
of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE.  A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.22  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.23  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after is has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Building Inspector may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.24  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Building Inspector may order the removal
of a junked motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing
that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens
imposed on the private property owner. The finding shall be based on a
balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding
gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area
appearance. The following among other relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values:
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.25  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
96.26 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed.
   (B)   If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to
be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on
the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (C)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Commissioners, and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.26  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   Those findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records.
   (C)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determines that
immediate removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.27  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the notice
to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.28  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   (A)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked
motor vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled
to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for
removing the vehicle.
   (B)   A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests.
   (C)   The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.29  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.30  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in accordance
with G.S. Ch. 44A.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.31  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Building Inspector.
   (B)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.32  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.33  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard, or junkyard, as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
§ 96.34  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1990)  Penalty, see §
96.99
BOARDED UP STRUCTURES
§ 96.45  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town by establishing reasonable regulations for
boarded up structures in order to prevent their detrimental effects in the
town's neighborhoods.
   (B)   The Department's Code Enforcement Official shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter. The
Code Enforcement Official or designee(s) shall have the following authority:
      (1)   To inspect the properties;
      (2)   To obtain administrative search and inspection warrants, if
necessary, as provided in G.S. § 15-27.2; and
      (3)   To issue notices of violation and impose civil penalties.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.46  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD UP.  The boarding up of any means of egress and ingress, including,
without limitation, windows and doors, to an unoccupied residential structure.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.  The person who has been designated, in writing,
by the Board of Commissioners to enforce this subchapter.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Code Enforcement Department.
   OWNER.  The holder of title in fee simple.
   STRUCTURE.  Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, intended to be used for human habitation and includes any
appurtenances therewith.
   UNOCCUPIED. A structure that is not occupied or that is occupied by
unauthorized person. In the case of a multi-unit residential structure,
UNOCCUPIED means when any one unit is unoccupied or occupied by unauthorized
persons.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.47  REQUIREMENTS; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   An owner who registers a boarded up structure pursuant to §
96.49 below must comply with the guidelines for boarding up structures
established from time to time by the Department.
   (B)   An owner's registration of a boarded up structure shall expire six
months from the date of registration with the Department and may not be
renewed.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.48  GRACE PERIOD.
   Any owner who has boarded up a structure prior to the effective date of this
subchapter shall comply with the regulations contained herein within six months
after the effective date of this subchapter. If after six months, an owner has
failed to register the structure, the owner shall be in violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.49  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No owner shall board up a structure without registering the structure
with the Department no later than 48 hours after boarding it up.
   (B)   An application for registration must be made by the owner of the
boarded up structure on a form prescribed by the Department, and submitted to
the Department. The completed registration form shall contain at a minimum the
following information:
      (1)   The full true name and mailing address of the owner;
      (2)   The full true address and tax parcel number of the structure to be
boarded;
      (3)   An accurate telephone number at which the owner may be reached;
      (4)   If the owner is a partnership or corporation, the owner shall
designate one of its general partners or officers to act as its agent and
provide the present residence and business addresses and telephone numbers for
the agent;
      (5)   The owner's plan for the occupancy, repair or demolition of the
structure;
      (6)   The owner's plan for regular maintenance during the period the
structure is boarded up; and
      (7)   Such other information as the Department shall from time to time
deem necessary.
   (C)   The owner, under this section, shall have a continuing duty to
promptly supplement registration information required by this section in the
event that the information changes in any way from what is stated on the
original registration.
   (D)   Registration of a boarded up structure does not excuse the owner from
compliance with any other applicable ordinance, regulation, or statute,
including, without limitation, §§
96.01 through
96.07. By accepting an owner's registration, the Department has not determined
that the structure being registered is in compliance with any applicable local
or state regulation or law.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.50  NOTICES.
   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Department under this
subchapter to the owner may be given either by personal delivery or by first
class United States mail, postage prepaid, the most current address as
specified in the registration which has been received by the Department or to
the address listed for the responsible person in the county property tax record
if an owner has not registered with the Department. Notices mailed as above
shall be deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail and shall be
deemed to have been received on the third regular postal delivery day
thereafter.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.51  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a boarded up structure to fail
to register the structure with the Department as required by §
96.49 above, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner who has registered a boarded up
structure to leave the structure boarded up after the expiration of the
registration as set forth in §
96.47 above.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to board up a structure in a manner
that does not comply with the Department's guidelines unless the owner has
obtained the Department's prior written approval for an alternative method of
boarding up a structure.
   (D)   A structure may be boarded up with the use of shutter or plywood
milled to have the appearance of shutters and painted.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.52  NOT AN INFRACTION OR MISDEMEANOR.
   A violation of any provision of this subchapter shall not constitute an
infraction or misdemeanor punishable under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 14-188.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.53  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; PENALTIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Code Enforcement
Official or designee(s) shall notify the owner or a boarded up structure of a
violation of any provision of this subchapter and the owner shall have ten days
from the date of notice of violation to correct the violation. Any owner who
fails to correct the violation within the time specified shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $500 for the first day of noncompliance and $50
each day thereafter until the owner complies. The civil penalty may be
recovered in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty within
30 days of assessment of the civil penalty.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.54  ADJUDICATORY HEARING.
   (A)   An owner who has been assessed a civil penalty for a violation of this
subchapter may request a hearing with the Department's Code Enforcement Officer
or his or her designee. The request must be made in writing, filed with the
Department within ten days of the notice of assessment, and state the reasons
why the civil penalty should not have been assessed. Failure to request a
hearing in the time and manner specified shall constitute a waiver of the right
to contest the penalty.
   (B)   An owner requesting a hearing must post a $500 bond with the
Department before an appeal hearing will be scheduled. Once the bond is posted,
the hearing will be scheduled within 15 business days.
   (C)   The Department's Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall
serve as the hearing officer. An owner against whom a decision of the hearing
officer is made may seek judicial review of the decision by filing a written
petition within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of the decision,
but not thereafter, with the superior court of the county. The proceeding in
superior court shall be in the nature certiorari.
(Ord. 35, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is set out, is subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
96.01(A) shall be punished by a fine of $100 with $200 for additional
violations at the same location within three months following the initial
violation.
      (2)   Any violation of §
96.01(B) through (E) shall be punished by a fin of $50 and each and every day
violation exist shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 97:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Regulations
   
97.01   Streets and sidewalks; injury generally
   
97.02   Injury to street lights, trees and the like
   
97.03   Encroachments generally
   
97.04   Gates
   
97.05   Awnings
   
97.06   Signs
   
97.07   Obstructions generally
   
97.08   Permitting wood or coal to remain on street or sidewalk after delivery
   
97.09   Cellar doors and vaults
   
97.10   Assemblies on streets
   
97.11   Playing games in streets
   
97.12   Using sidewalks to display merchandise
   
97.13   Snow and ice removal
Street Commissioner
   
97.25   Office created
   
97.26   Appointment
   
97.27   Duties generally
Excavations
   
97.40   Permit required
   
97.41   Work to be done by town; permittee to pay costs
   
97.42   Breaking curb for driveway
   
97.43   Warning flags and lights
   
97.44   Refilling and resurfacing
Cross-references:
   Consuming or serving alcoholic beverages in or on public streets, boulevards
and the like, see §
111.02
   Hitching animals to trees, lamp posts and the like, see §
90.07
   Garbage and refuse generally, see
Chapter 50
   Improvements generally, see
Chapter 151
   Parades, picketing, demonstrations and the like, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control by town of streets, sidewalks, alleys and the like
generally, see G.S. § 160A-296
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 97.01  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; INJURY GENERALLY.
   No person shall injure, deface or mar in any manner whatsoever any of the
streets or sidewalks of the town. The town shall have the right to repair any
injury, defacement or mar and assess the cost thereof against the offender.
(1977 Code, § 26-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Marking or painting on streets or sidewalks generally, see §
130.02
§ 97.02  INJURY TO STREET LIGHTS, TREES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall break, destroy or in any manner injure any light, pump, well
or tree in any street or public place in the town or deface or in any manner
injure any building belonging to the town.
(1977 Code, § 26-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Wilful and wanton injury to real property generally, see G.S. § 14-127
§ 97.03  ENCROACHMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall notify all persons about to erect any
buildings, sidewalks, walls or fences near any street, public way or alley not
to encroach upon the street, public way or alley.  If, in the opinion of the
Mayor and Board of Commissioners, any obstruction is being or has been
constructed on any street or public alley, the Mayor shall cause a survey of
the line of the street or alley to be made by a competent surveyor, and if the
survey shall show that the street or alley is obstructed by any building,
sidewalk, wall or fence, the owner shall be required to pay the costs of the
survey and be required to remove all obstructions at once.
   (B)   Every person who shall be found to have encroached on any street or
public way or alley by any building, sidewalk, wall or fence shall remove the
same upon notice from the Mayor, within one week from the date thereof.
   (C)   Whenever authorized signs or markings are duly placed, erected or
installed indicating "No Through Traffic", "Street Closed", "Safety Zone", "No
Entrance", "No Trucks", "No Bicycles", "No Trespassing" (applying to vehicular
traffic), "Do Not Enter", "Failure to Stop and Remain for Audible and/or Visual
Warning Signals at Railroad Crossings", no driver of any vehicle shall disobey
the regulations in connection therewith. Note: a $25 fine will be assessed to
those drivers cited on town ordinance citations. This fine will apply to each
violation.
(1977 Code, § 26-3)  (Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.04  GATES.
   No gate to any residence, lot or other enclosure in the town shall swing or
open outward over the street or sidewalk.
(1977 Code, § 26-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.05  AWNINGS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any shelter, sunshade or awning in front
of any building, which shall extend over the sidewalk, which shall be less than
seven feet above the level of any sidewalk or which shall extend more than ten
feet from the building to which it may be attached; provided, that stationary
awning arms shall not be less than eight feet above the level of the sidewalk.
(1977 Code, § 26-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.06  SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall hang or suspend any sign over or above the sidewalks
or streets at less than eight feet from the ground over the sidewalk and less
than 15 feet from the ground above the street.
   (B)   The sign shall be kept securely fastened at all times.
(1977 Code, § 26-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.07  OBSTRUCTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No brick, stone, wood or other substances obstructing the streets
shall be suffered to lie in the streets of the town.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall place in any street, alley or sidewalk any
boxes, casks, crates, barrels or other obstructions.
      (2)   Building material, earth and other obstructions of like character
may, by permission of the Mayor, in writing, be allowed under the restrictions
as he or she may impose; provided, that in erecting buildings, no sidewalk
shall be so obstructed as to prevent the free passage of pedestrians.
(1977 Code, § 26-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.08  PERMITTING WOOD OR COAL TO REMAIN ON STREET OR SIDEWALK AFTER
DELIVERY.
   No wood or coal shall be allowed to remain on any street for longer than 24
hours after the coal or wood shall have been delivered to the person ordering
the same, nor shall any street or sidewalk be used as a woodpile.
(1977 Code, § 26-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.09  CELLAR DOORS AND VAULTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a house which has a cellar door or vault in a public
footway shall keep the same closed, except when in temporary use.
   (B)   When a cellar door or vault is regularly used, the owner shall, under
the supervision of the Street Commissioner, place a substantial guard rail on
each side of the opening.
   (C)   The owners of the cellar doors and vaults shall keep the same in good
repair.
(1977 Code, § 26-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.10  ASSEMBLIES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall hold any auction sale on any street, except at
designated places, without permission of the police or the Mayor.
   (B)   No person shall attract a crowd on any street, sidewalk or public
thoroughfare so as to impede travel thereon.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the preaching of the
Salvation Army, other similar preaching of the gospel, speech-making or
serenading on occasion of public rejoicing, or in political campaigns, under
the control of the police.
(1977 Code, § 26-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.11  PLAYING GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall play baseball, town ball, football or other games of a
similar nature in any public street.
(1977 Code, § 26-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Using cemeteries as playgrounds, see §
91.08
§ 97.12  USING SIDEWALKS TO DISPLAY MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   The sidewalks of the town may be used to display merchandise with the
express permission of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display on the sidewalks in the
town any goods or merchandise of any kind whatsoever, if the display in any way
blocks or restricts traffic on the sidewalks.
(1977 Code, § 26-12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Crying out articles or events on streets or sidewalks, see §
130.01
§ 97.13  SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   No occupant of a lot, in front of which the sidewalk is paved with stone,
brick, asphalt or cement, shall neglect or refuse to remove snow, ice or other
substances from the sidewalk within six hours after notice from the Chief of
Police.
(1977 Code, § 26-13)
STREET COMMISSIONER
§ 97.25  OFFICE CREATED.
   The Office of Street Commissioner is hereby created.
(1977 Code, § 26-14)
§ 97.26  APPOINTMENT.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners after its election and
qualification, or as soon thereafter as possible, they shall appoint a Street
Commissioner.
(1977 Code, § 26-15)
§ 97.27  DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Street Commissioner, under the direction of the Board of Commissioners,
shall:
   (A)   Employ and superintend all the laborers put to work upon the streets
and other public works;
   (B)   Examine and keep in good repair all streets, bridges, trunks and
waterways, and do all acts necessary therefor;
   (C)   Report to the Board of Commissioners each month, more often if
required, concerning:
      (1)   The time each employee has worked;
      (2)   The cost of labor and material; and
      (3)   All other expenses incurred by him or her on behalf of the town.
   (D)   Perform other duties as may be required of him or her from time to
time by the Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 26-16)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.40  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavations, cut or make any other opening in any
of the streets or sidewalks of the town, without first having obtained a permit
therefor from the Building Inspector, with the approval of the Board of
Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 26-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.41  WORK TO BE DONE BY TOWN; PERMITTEE TO PAY COSTS.
   After the permit required by §
97.40 above has been obtained, all excavations, cuts or openings in any street
or sidewalk shall be made by the Street Department, and the person requesting
that the excavation or cut be made shall pay therefor the cost of materials,
plus 10%, and the cost of the labor, including the cost of replacing the
sidewalk or street.
(1977 Code, § 26-18)
§ 97.42  BREAKING CURB FOR DRIVEWAY.
   (A)   No person shall break the curb for a driveway unless a concrete apron
extending at least 18 inches back is constructed.
   (B)   The work shall be done under the direction of the Street Commissioner.
(1977 Code, § 26-19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.43  WARNING FLAGS AND LIGHTS.
   Any person excavating or opening any street or sidewalk within the town
shall protect the same with a sufficient number of red flags during the daytime
and red lights at night.
(1977 Code, § 26-20)
§ 97.44  REFILLING AND RESURFACING.
   (A)   Any opening made in any street or sidewalk under the provisions of
this chapter shall, immediately upon the completion of the work, be filled in
and the surface thereof made flush with the adjacent surfaces.
   (B)   Any hard surface, macadam or asphalt removed shall be replaced by the
town at the expense of the applicant granted permission to open the street or
sidewalk.
(1977 Code, § 26-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   PLUMBING; LICENSING
         
113.   TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
         
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
115.   MOBILE AND ITINERANT BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING
Section
Generally
   
110.01   Purpose and construction of license taxes
   
110.02   License taxes annual; commencement of tax year
   
110.03   False statements in license applications
   
110.04   When license taxes delinquent; duty to obtain license before
conducting business or exercising privilege; failure to obtain license
   
110.05   Town Clerk to issue licenses
   
110.06   Display of license
   
110.07   Term and expiration of licenses
   
110.08   License required for each separate business
   
110.09   License required for each place of business
   
110.10   Continuing in business after expiration of license
   
110.11   Commencing business without license
   
110.12   Itinerants
   
110.13   Schedule of license taxes
   
110.14   License tax on businesses and the like not enumerated in schedule
   
110.15   Tent shows prohibited
GENERALLY
§ 110.01  PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION OF LICENSE TAXES.
   The taxes set out in this chapter shall be imposed as license taxes for the
privilege of carrying on the business, exercising the privilege or doing the
act named, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person
from the payment of the prescribed tax.
(1977 Code, § 16-1)
§ 110.02  LICENSE TAXES ANNUAL; COMMENCEMENT OF TAX YEAR.
   The license taxes imposed and the rates specified in this chapter are annual
taxes and shall apply to the subjects taxed on and after July 1 of every year.
(1977 Code, § 16-2)
§ 110.03  FALSE STATEMENTS IN LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   Any person who shall wilfully make any false statement in any application
for a license under this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1977 Code, § 16-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  WHEN LICENSE TAXES DELINQUENT; DUTY TO OBTAIN LICENSE BEFORE
CONDUCTING BUSINESS OR EXERCISING PRIVILEGE; FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   (A)   If license taxes are not paid by July 1 of each year, after that date
they shall be deemed delinquent, and subject to the remedies and prosecutions
as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   If any person begins any business or the exercise of any privilege
requiring a license under this chapter after June 30 of any year, and prior to
June 30 of the following year, the person shall apply for and obtain a town
license for conducting the business or exercising the privilege in advance and
before the beginning of the business or the exercise of the privilege. A
failure to so apply and obtain a license shall be and constitute a delinquent
payment of the town license tax due, and the person shall be subject to the
remedies and prosecutions set out in this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 16-4)
§ 110.05  TOWN CLERK TO ISSUE LICENSES.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be issued by
the Town Clerk.
(1977 Code, § 16-5)
§ 110.06  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person required to pay a license tax under the provisions of this
chapter shall post his or her license conspicuously in the place where he or
she conducts his or her business and keep the same so posted, or if the
licensee has no fixed place of business, the licensee shall keep the license
wherever the business is being operated and in a place where it can be seen at
any time by an official desiring to inspect the same.
(1977 Code, § 16-6)
§ 110.07  TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall be for 12 months, unless
otherwise specifically provided in any section imposing a tax, and shall expire
on June 30 next following its issuance.
(1977 Code, § 16-7)
§ 110.08  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   Any person dealing in two or more of the articles or engaged in two or more
of the businesses, callings or vocations set out in this chapter, for each of
which a license is required, shall, unless it is otherwise provided in this
chapter, pay for and take out a license for each line of business, vocation,
calling or profession.
(1977 Code, § 16-8)
§ 110.09  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   If the business made taxable or the privilege to be exercised under this
chapter is carried on at two or more separate places in the town, a separate
license tax for each place or location of the business shall be required.
(1977 Code, § 16-9)
§ 110.10  CONTINUING IN BUSINESS AFTER EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If any person shall continue any business, trade, employment or
profession or do any act for which a license has been issued after the
expiration of the license, without obtaining a new license, he or she shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99, but the fine shall be not less than 20% of the tax in addition to the
tax and cost.
   (B)   If the failure to apply for and obtain a new license is continued, the
person shall pay an additional tax of 5% of the amount of the town tax which
was due and payable on July 1 of the current year, in addition to any state tax
imposed by the General Statutes of North Carolina, for every 30 days that the
town license tax remains unpaid from the date that the same is due and payable.
The additional tax shall be assessed by the Tax Collector and paid with the
town license tax and shall become a part of the license tax.
(1977 Code, § 16-10)
§ 110.11  COMMENCING BUSINESS WITHOUT LICENSE.
   When a license tax is required by this chapter for any business, trade,
employment or profession or for doing any act, it shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in the business, trade, employment, profession or act without
obtaining the license.
(1977 Code, § 16-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12  ITINERANTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, any person who does not list
property for taxation in the town shall be deemed an "itinerant" and shall be
subject to the taxes levied herein on itinerants.
   (B)   If no tax is specified for itinerants, the tax shall be double the
rate provided for persons listing property for taxation in the town, unless the
double rate exceeds the tax permitted under state law, in which case the tax
shall be the maximum amount which may be levied under state law.
(1977 Code, § 16-12)
§ 110.13  SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall prepare and levy from time to time a
schedule of license taxes on the trades and occupations as may be deemed
necessary and not inconsistent with state law.
   (B)   A permanent copy of the same shall be kept on file in the office of
the Town Clerk, and this permanent copy shall constitute the official license
tax levy.
(1977 Code, § 16-13)
§ 110.14  LICENSE TAX ON BUSINESSES AND THE LIKE NOT ENUMERATED IN SCHEDULE.
   Upon every business, trade, vocation or profession not enumerated in the
schedule of license taxes referred to in §
110.13 above, there shall be paid an annual license in an amount to be
determined from time to time as necessary by the Board of Commissioners by
ordinance, which shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Administrator/
Finance Officer.
(1977 Code, § 16-14)
§ 110.15  TENT SHOWS PROHIBITED.
   No tent show shall be exhibited, shown or carried on within the town.
(1977 Code, § 16-15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Sale of beer and wine permitted on Sunday
   
111.02   Consuming or serving in or on public streets, boulevards, buildings
and the like
§ 111.01  SALE OF BEER AND WINE PERMITTED ON SUNDAY.
   Beer and wine may be sold and dispensed within the town on Sunday after 1:00
p.m., subject to state ABC regulations.
(1977 Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited hours of sale of malt beverages and wine, see G.S. § 18B-1004
§ 111.02  CONSUMING OR SERVING IN OR ON PUBLIC STREETS, BOULEVARDS, BUILDINGS
AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall consume or serve wine, beer, whiskey or alcoholic beverages
of any kind in or on the public streets, boulevards, alleys, parks, sidewalks
or public buildings within the town.
(1977 Code, § 3-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  PLUMBING; LICENSING
Section
Generally
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Water and sewer connections and the like to be done by licensed
plumbers or journeymen
   
112.03   License required
Plumbing Permits
   
112.15   Required
   
112.16   Application
   
112.17   Fee
   
112.18   Prerequisites to issuance for work in unsewered areas
   
112.19   Issuance to be to licensed plumbers only
   
112.20   Changes in work after issuance
   
112.21   Expiration by limitation
   
112.22   Revocation
   
112.23   Records
Inspections
   
112.35   Requests
   
112.36   Roughing-in inspections
   
112.37   Final inspection
   
112.38   Work to be left uncovered until inspected and approved
   
112.39   Condemnation of defective work; willfully hidden defects grounds for
revocation of license
   
112.40   Extra inspections
Cross-references:
   Buildings generally, see
Chapter 150
   Licenses and business regulations generally, see
Chapter 110
   Trailers and trailer parks generally, see
Chapter 152
   Water and sewers generally, see
Chapter 51
GENERALLY
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXTURE.  Any receptacle for the reception of house sewage.
   HOUSE DRAIN.  The horizontal pipes laid from the sewer to or near the
building, and there connected with the pipes constituting the interior drainage
system.
   SEWER.  The pipes, conduits, mains or lateral pipes laid in the streets or,
in certain places for topographic reasons, laid through private lands.
   SOIL PIPE.  Any pipe conveying the discharge of a water closet, with or
without the addition of smaller fixtures.
   STACK.  A vertical line or pipe.
   TRAP.  A specially curved pipe or receptacle, so placed in a line of soil or
waste pipe that enough passing water will be held to completely fill the
channel and thus seal it to prevent the passage of air or gas through the trap.
   VENT PIPE.  Any pipe provided to ventilate pipes, traps or fixtures and to
prevent back pressure and siphonage of traps.
   WASTE PIPE.  Any pipe conveying the discharge of any fixture, other than a
water closet, to the house drain or soil pipe.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION PIPE.  The pipe which conveys water from the service pipe
to the plumbing fixture.
   WATER SERVICE PIPE.  The pipe from the water main to the building which it
serves.
(1977 Code, § 23-1)
§ 112.02  WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS AND THE LIKE TO BE DONE BY LICENSED
PLUMBERS OR JOURNEYMEN.
   All plumbing installation and repair work and all water, drain and sewer
connections shall be done by licensed plumbers or their journeyman plumbers.
(1977 Code, § 23-2)
§ 112.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Before any person shall engage in the business of master plumber or do or
cause to be done any plumbing work within the town, the person shall purchase a
license from Town Clerk and Treasurer on approval of the Building Inspector.
(1977 Code, § 23-3)
PLUMBING PERMITS
§ 112.15  REQUIRED.
   No person shall proceed with any plumbing, drainage or sewerage work, or
extend or alter old or new work, except necessary repairs such as leaks in
pipes, traps and cocks, opening up traps and drains through cleanout only or
repairing broken fixtures, without first obtaining a permit.
(1977 Code, § 23-4)
Cross-reference:
   Building permits, see §§
150.40 through
150.48
§ 112.16  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for plumbing permits shall be made upon blank forms
prepared and furnished by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Applications for plumbing permits shall be made on or before the date
work is begun and shall state the correct lot, block or street number where the
work is to be performed, and the name of the owner of the property, together
with a readable drawing of the work, if required, indicating pipe sizes and
character of materials.
   (C)   If the application is for a plumbing permit to install or build any
septic tank, cesspool or other type of disposal plant, a certificate of
approval of the location of the tank, from the County Health Department, shall
accompany the application.
(1977 Code, § 23-5)
§ 112.17  FEE.
   A fee, updated from time to time, shall be paid for each plumbing permit for
each of the following items:
   (A)   Closets;
   (B)   Bathtubs;
   (C)   Showers;
   (D)   Lavatories;
   (E)   Electric water heaters;
   (F)   Gas water heaters;
   (G)   HW storage tanks;
   (H)   Drinking fountains;
   (I)   Kitchen sinks;
   (J)   Slop sinks;
   (K)   Urinals;
   (L)   Laundry tubs;
   (M)   Clothes washers;
   (N)   Dishwashers;
   (O)   Soda fountains;
   (P)   Sewage ejectors;
   (Q)   Floor drains;
   (R)   Grease traps;
   (S)   House sewers;
   (T)   Changes of sewers; and
   (U)   Replacement of fixtures.
(1977 Code, § 23-6)
§ 112.18  PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE FOR WORK IN UNSEWERED AREAS.
   Permits for the installation of kitchen sinks, lavatories, commodes and
bathtubs that are to be installed in buildings in unsewered areas shall in no
case be granted unless it is clearly shown that the discharge from the same is
handled in a manner so as not to cause a nuisance, or calculated to be or
become offensive or annoying to the neighboring citizens or in any manner
jeopardize the health or comfort of the community in which the installation is
made.
(1977 Code, § 23-7)
§ 112.19  ISSUANCE TO BE TO LICENSED PLUMBERS ONLY.
   Plumbing permits shall be issued only to persons licensed under the
provisions of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 23-8)
§ 112.20  CHANGES IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   If, after a plumbing permit has been issued, it is desired to alter or
deviate in any manner from the terms of the application and drawing submitted
at the time of securing the permit, notice of that intention shall be given to
the Building Inspector and a correct drawing furnished before any inspection is
made.
(1977 Code, § 23-9)
§ 112.21  EXPIRATION BY LIMITATION.
   Each plumbing permit shall lapse by limitation and become void if the work
is not prosecuted within 12 months from the date of issuance.
(1977 Code, § 23-10)
§ 112.22  REVOCATION.
   Any plumbing permit shall be revoked by the Building Inspector for any
material departure from the approval, application and drawing or in case any
false statement or representation was made in securing the permit.
(1977 Code, § 23-11)
§ 112.23  RECORDS.
   The Building Inspector shall keep suitable records of all plumbing permits
issued.
(1977 Code, § 23-12)
INSPECTIONS
§ 112.35  REQUESTS.
   Requests for inspection shall be filed in the Building Inspector's office on
or before 9:30 a.m. in order to receive attention the same day.
(1977 Code, § 23-13)
§ 112.36  ROUGHING-IN INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing, drain and sewer pipes shall be inspected when the
plumbing has been roughed-in.
   (B)   As soon as the various pipes and traps are connected, they shall be
tested by the plumber in the presence of the Inspector, by filling them
entirely with water.
(1977 Code, § 23-14)
§ 112.37  FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   When all fixtures are connected and ready for use, a final inspection
shall be made by the Inspector, to show that the work is in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   The plumber in charge of the work may be required to subject the
plumbing to an approved smoke or peppermint test.
   (C)   When the work is ready for the entire test, notice shall be given to
the Inspector, who shall promptly make the test.
(1977 Code, § 23-15)
§ 112.38  WORK TO BE LEFT UNCOVERED UNTIL INSPECTED AND APPROVED.
   All plumbing work shall be left uncovered and convenient for inspection
until after it has been inspected and approved.
(1977 Code, § 23-16)
§ 112.39  CONDEMNATION OF DEFECTIVE WORK; WILLFULLY HIDDEN DEFECTS GROUNDS FOR
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall promptly condemn and order the removal of
any defective material or work.
   (B)   The presence of any willfully hidden defects shall be sufficient cause
for the revocation of the plumber's license.
(1977 Code, § 23-17)
§ 112.40  EXTRA INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Extra plumbing inspections shall be charged as set forth in the town
schedule of fees.
   (B)   EXTRA PLUMBING INSPECTIONS shall mean additional inspections or
inspection trips made by the Plumbing Inspector, or his or her assistants, made
necessary through the failure of any plumbing contractor or certified plumber
in charge of the work to properly specify the location of the work, or failure
to install plumbing or apparatus in the proper manner, or any other creation of
conditions making additional inspection trips necessary.
(1977 Code, § 23-18)
CHAPTER 113:  TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Generally
   
113.01   Annual taxicab license
   
113.02   Display of taxicab rates
   
113.03   Insurance
   
113.04   Certification of taxicab insurance
   
113.05   Standing while awaiting employment, cruising and the like
   
113.06   Limitation on taxicab parking
   
113.07   Riding without paying prescribed fare
   
113.08   Authority of drivers to demand prepayment; duty of drivers to convey
orderly passengers; extra passengers
Drivers’ Permits
   
113.20   Required
   
113.21   Application generally
   
113.22   Investigation and report by Chief of Police
   
113.23   Issuance
   
113.24   Display
   
113.25   Revocation
Statutory reference:
   Filing of proof of financial responsibility by taxicab operators, see G.S. §
20-280
GENERALLY
§ 113.01  ANNUAL TAXICAB LICENSE.
   Every person operating any taxicab within the town or between the town and
points, not incorporated, within five miles thereof shall apply to and secure
from the Town Clerk an annual license for the privilege of operating each
taxicab, and shall pay for the annual license a tax set forth in the schedule
of fees for each taxicab operated.
(1977 Code, § 27-1)
§ 113.02  DISPLAY OF TAXICAB RATES.
   Every taxicab operated within the town or between the town and any point,
not incorporated, within five miles thereof shall have at all times prominently
posted and displayed in the taxicab, so as to be visible to the passengers
therein, the rates or fares for the use of the cab.
(1977 Code, § 27-2)
§ 113.03  INSURANCE.
   No persons shall operate or cause to be operated any jitney bus or taxicab
or any motor vehicle used for transporting passengers for fare over the
streets, without first taking out and keeping in effect at all times policies
of insurance in some insurance company duly licensed to do business in the
state, as set forth in G.S. § 20-280.
(1977 Code, § 27-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04  CERTIFICATION OF TAXICAB INSURANCE.
   The Town Administrator/Finance Officer shall certify a taxi operator has in
force public liability insurance in the amounts specified in G.S. § 20-280.
(1977 Code, § 27-4)
§ 113.05  STANDING WHILE AWAITING EMPLOYMENT, CRUISING AND THE LIKE.
   No taxicab, while awaiting employment, shall stand upon any street, except
in places designated as taxicab stands, or cruise about the streets at a speed
which will obstruct traffic, or pass and repass any theater or public building
without driving at least two blocks therefrom before turning and repassing.
(1977 Code, § 27-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06  LIMITATION ON TAXICAB PARKING.
   Not more than two taxicabs owned by the same company shall be parked in one
block at the same time, unless parked in established taxi stands.
(1977 Code, § 27-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07  RIDING WITHOUT PAYING PRESCRIBED FARE.
   No person, except persons entitled to free transportation, shall ride upon
any bus, taxicab or other public conveyance without paying therefor the fare
prescribed or allowed by law.
(1977 Code, § 27-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Attending amusements without paying prescribed fee, see §
130.05
§ 113.08  AUTHORITY OF DRIVERS TO DEMAND PREPAYMENT; DUTY OF DRIVERS TO CONVEY
ORDERLY PASSENGERS; EXTRA PASSENGERS.
   (A)   Every driver of a taxicab shall have the right to demand payment of
the legal fare in advance and may refuse employment unless so prepaid, but no
driver of a taxicab shall otherwise refuse or neglect to convey any orderly
person upon request anywhere within the town, unless previously engaged or
unable to do so.
   (B)   No driver of a taxicab shall carry any person other than the passenger
first employing the taxicab, without the consent of the first passenger.
(1977 Code, § 27-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
DRIVERS' PERMITS
§ 113.20  REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the town or between the town and any point, not incorporated,
within five miles thereof, unless he or she shall have first applied to and
secured from the Board of Commissioners a permit to operate the taxicab.
(1977 Code, § 27-9)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to require taxicab drivers' permits, see G.S. § 160A-304
(a)
§ 113.21  APPLICATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   The application for a permit to drive a taxicab shall be made upon
blanks furnished by the town for that purpose and shall, among other things,
state the name, address, physical condition, physical description, former
employers, court record and state chauffeur's license number of the applicant.
   (B)   The application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
   (C)   The applicant shall further appear at the office of the Police
Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints and photograph
taken both of which shall constitute apart of his or her application.
(1977 Code, § 27-10)
§ 113.22  INVESTIGATION AND REPORT BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall investigate the facts stated in each application
for a permit under this subchapter, and shall report his or her findings and
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 27-11)
§ 113.23  ISSUANCE.
   If the Board of Commissioners finds that the applicant has not been
convicted of a felony or of a violation of any federal or state statute
relating to the use, possession or sale of narcotic drugs or to prostitution,
and that the applicant is a citizen of the United States and is not a habitual
user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs and that he or she has not been
a habitual violator of traffic laws, the Board shall issue a permit to the
applicant to drive a taxicab.
(1977 Code, § 27-12)
§ 113.24  DISPLAY.
   The driver of every taxicab shall, at all times while operating the taxicab,
prominently post and display in the taxicab, so as to be visible to passengers
therein, his or her permit to drive the taxicab.
(1977 Code, § 27-13)
§ 113.25  REVOCATION.
   At any time after the issuance of a permit to any person to drive a taxicab,
the Board of Commissioners may revoke the permit if the person holding the
permit is convicted of a felony, a violation of any federal or state statute
relating to the use, possession or sale of intoxicating liquors, a violation of
any federal or state statute relating to the use, possession or sale of
narcotic drugs, repeated violations of the traffic laws or ordinances or a
violation of any federal or state statute relating to prostitution, or if he or
she shall become a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs.
(1977 Code, § 27-14)
CHAPTER 114:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Application for licenses
   
114.04   Application procedures
   
114.05   Prohibited acts and conduct
   
114.06   License; posting and display
   
114.07   Inspections
   
114.08   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
114.09   License renewal
   
114.10   Transfer of license
Regulations for Operation
   
114.25   Locational restrictions
   
114.26   Nonconforming uses
   
114.27   Adult motels
   
114.28   Escort agencies
   
114.29   Nude model studios
   
114.30   Exhibition of explicit films, videos and live performances
   
114.31   Exterior portions of businesses
   
114.32   Signage
   
114.33   Massages or baths administered by a person of the opposite sex
   
114.34   Hours of operation
   
114.35   Exemptions
   
114.36   Notices
   
114.37   Injunction
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol regulations, see
Chapter 111
   General licensing provisions, see
Chapter 110
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located within the town. Adult
establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and experiences that are
relevant to the state have shown that lower property values and increased crime
rates tend to accompany and are brought about by adult establishments. The
Board of Commissioners finds that regulations of these uses is necessary to
ensure that these adverse secondary effects do not contribute to the blighting
of surrounding neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions or conditions
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare and the peace and dignity of the
town. Regulation to achieve these purposes can be accomplished by the
procedures set forth hereinafter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually, oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specific sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section or other periodicals, videotapes, compact
discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other imaging
medium); and/or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications, including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that on a regular, sporadic or transient basis features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or "specified sexual activities";
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.  An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, escort agency,
exotic car wash, exotic maid service, nude modeling studios, sexual encounter
center or any other sexually oriented business that is similar in nature or
intent to any other adult entertainment business as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.  Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.  Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This shall apply
whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic or transient
basis.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films;
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation of patrons therein.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the person is paid a salary,
wage or other compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as a
patron or customer.
   ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The increase in floor areas
occupied by the business by more than 10%, as the floor areas exist at the time
of the effective date of this chapter.
   ENTERTAINER.  Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult
establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for entertainment
and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an employee or
an independent contractor.
   EROTIC.  Refers to any seductive, titillating, lustful, immodest, indecent,
suggestive, passionate, or similar reference, act, service or deed.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration and whose advertisements,
promotions or obvious intent to the public is sexual in nature.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   EXOTIC CAR WASH.  A facility that offers a car cleaning or washing service
performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   EXOTIC MAID SERVICE.  Any cleaning service for a residence or business where
the employee is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   LICENSED DAY CARE CENTER.  A facility licensed by the state, whether
situated within the city or not, that provides care, training, education,
custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of
age, where the children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the
owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of
whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the
services it offers.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY.  The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, public area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than fully opaque covering; or human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   PREMISES.  The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including but not
limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways and
parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
114.04 below.
   SEMI-NUDE.  The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line
across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or her wearing apparel, provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Any businesses or enterprises that have as one
of their principal business purposes or as a significant portion of their
business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing or related to
anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in G.S. § 14-202.10. This
term may be used interchangeably with ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES.  Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or a device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   TOWN.  Town of Weldon, North Carolina.
   TOWN CLERK.  Chief administrative town official. The TOWN CLERK is
responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP or CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Business license.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the town unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the town. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate the business after the license has been revoked or suspended
by the town or has expired.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the town.
      (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained a license. In addition, it shall be
prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that the
business was not licensed.
   (B)   Entertainer license. It is unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the town, or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
the person's license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the town or has
expired.
   (C)   License classification and fees.
      (1)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and establishment by the Town Board of
Commissioners. Payment shall be made by certified or cashier's check or money
order. No application shall be considered complete until all fees are paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall be issued for a specific location and/or person
and shall be non-refundable and nontransferable.
      (3)   The license fees shall be set as by the Town Board of Commissioners
from time to time and be recorded in the Town Board of Commissioners meeting
minutes at which they are set.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adult establishment business license.
      (1)   All persons desiring to secure a license to conduct, operate or
maintain an adult establishment under the provisions of this chapter shall make
a verified application to the Town Clerk. All applications shall be submitted
in the name of the person proposing to conduct, operate or maintain the adult
establishment.
      (2)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the Town
Clerk and shall require the following information:
         (a)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by
which the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and
the residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, social security number, driver's
license number and a recent photograph of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the
adult entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the
owner of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the
business address and the county parcel identification number on which the
business resides.
            2.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of
land in division (A)(2)(b)1. above is/are not also the owner(s) of the
establishment, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract,
lease option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable
right of the owners or proposed owners of the adult establishment to have or
obtain the use and possession on the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the purpose of the operation of an adult establishment.
            3.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared
within 30 days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified; the property
lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school, library or
public park or playground, licensed daycare center, entertainment business that
is oriented primarily towards children within 1,500 feet of the property to be
certified and any dwelling or residential zoning district within 500 feet to be
certified. For the purposes of this section, a use shall be considered EXISTING
or ESTABLISHED if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
            4.   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
Town Clerk with the original application or previous renewals thereof remain
correct and current.
         (c)   The name, residence addresses for the past two years, social
security number and date of birth of the owner, if the applicant is a sole
proprietorship; and the names, residence addresses for the past two years,
social security numbers and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant
is a partnership; and if the applicant is a corporation, the same information
for all corporate officers, directors and individuals having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation;
         (d)   1.   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or
from each corporate officer, director or 10% shareholder that each person has
not been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted
from prosecution on:
               a.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately
preceding the application; or
               b.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application.
            2.   Where the felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state or any
other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other
state.
         (e)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of
existence issued by the State Secretary of State;
         (f)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments;
         (g)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a town police
officer. The fingerprint card shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
Town Police Department; and
         (h)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant(s) consents to
investigation of his or her background by the town to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant(s) agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her
expense, a criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the
applicant has resided during the five preceding years.
      (3)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by
this division shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be
processed until complete.
   (B)   Adult entertainer license.
      (1)   All persons desiring to secure a license under the provisions of
this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified application to the Town
Clerk. All applications shall be made in person to the Town Clerk or his or her
designee.
      (2)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the Town
Clerk and shall require the following information:
         (a)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by
which the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and
the residence addresses for the past two years, the home telephone number, date
and place of birth, social security number and any stage names or nicknames
used in entertaining;
         (b)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the
applicant intends to work as an entertainer;
         (c)   A statement from the applicant that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted from
prosecution on:
            1.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
            2.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where the felony or misdemeanor criminal act
involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse
of a child, pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the
state, or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or laws of
any other state.
         (d)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the Town Clerk or
his or her designee and the Town Clerk shall have the photographs processed and
retain the copies;
         (e)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a town police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
Town Police Department;
         (f)   The applicant shall present to the Town Clerk for copying
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years at the time
the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted as
documentation of age:
            1.   A motor vehicle operator's license issued by the state,
bearing the applicant's photograph and date of birth;
            2.   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant's
photograph and date of birth;
            3.   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
            4.   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
            5.   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the Town Clerk; or
            6.   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the Town
Clerk.
         (g)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his or her background by the town to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her expense,
a criminal history from the Clerk of Court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five preceding years.
      (3)   Failure to provide the information required by this division shall
constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be processed until
complete.
   (C)   Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment license or for an entertainer license, the Town Clerk shall
immediately commence investigation of the application as follows:
      (1)   In the case of an application for a license for an adult
establishment, the Town Clerk shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Zoning Administrator
and to the Police Chief;
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall report to the Town Clerk no later
than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by the Town Clerk
whether or not a proposed adult establishment complies with the requirements of
the zoning ordinance regarding location of the adult establishment, building,
fire, health or similar state or local code(s). In the event the Zoning
Administrator fails to report to the Town Clerk within this time period, the
Town Clerk shall proceed with processing the application;
         (c)   The Police Chief shall report to the Town Clerk no later than 15
working days after the receipt of the application by the Police Chief the
results of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event that the
Police Chief fails to report to the Town Clerk within the time period, the Town
Clerk shall proceed with processing the application; and
         (d)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
applicable license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Zoning
Administrator and the Police Chief (or upon expiration of the time periods
referenced above without receiving a report), the Town Clerk shall determine
whether or not a license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for
determination by the Town Clerk exceed 45 working days from the date the
application is received by the Town Clerk, unless consented to by the
applicant.
      (2)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
Town Clerk shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Police Chief;
         (b)   The Police Chief shall report to the Town Clerk no later than
ten working days after receipt of the application by the Police Chief the
results of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event that the
Police Chief fails to report to the Town Clerk within this time period, the
revenue manager shall proceed with processing the application; and
         (c)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Police Chief (or
upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without
receiving a report), the Town Clerk shall determine whether or not a license
shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by the
Town Clerk exceed 15 days from the date the application is received by the Town
Clerk, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (D)   Reasons for disapproval. The Town Clerk must deny the license
application for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers,
directors and shareholders where applicable), has been convicted of a crime in
the local, state or federal court systems for any violations listed in this
section;
      (3)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable), has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a town background investigation
or by any other lawful means; and/or
      (4)   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Notice of approval or disapproval.
      (1)   Upon a determination by the Town Clerk of the disapproval or
approval of the application, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant by
personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address
of the applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the application
is disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for the disapproval.
      (2)   In the event the application is disapproved, the applicant shall
have 30 days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the Superior Court of the county.
   (F)   Changes to application. All applicants shall notify the Town Clerk of
any changes to the application within five working days of the date the change
occurs.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.05  PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall appear "bottomless" or in a state of nudity while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in this
chapter, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which stimulates
any specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or patron
of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers, whether the
specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed, while on
the premises of the adult establishment
   (F)   There shall be a minimum separation of 24 inches between any
entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (G)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall mix, dispense or serve
any alcoholic beverage while in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (H)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall solicit, receive or
accept nor shall any customer, or patron give, offer or provide any gratuity,
tip, payment of any other form of compensation for entertainment for or while
either or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains
to the purchase of an unrelated item that includes a "free" dance, act or
service.
   (I)   No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon premises or knowingly allow
or permit a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06  LICENSE; POSTING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post the license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (B)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for the inspection by town authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.07  INSPECTIONS.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the police, fire,
zoning or other town or state departments or agencies acting in their official
capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the business is
complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.08  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or not a
license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within ten
working days of his or her knowledge that:
      (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under those circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that the violations were
committed;
      (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the
application for the license, or renewal thereof;
      (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced, or is being or
was used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than
that identified on the license, or for a use or type other than that for which
the license was issued;
      (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all
information in the application for the license, or renewal thereof;
      (6)   The owner or operator, any partner, any corporate officer or
director holding an adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter; or
      (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the Town Clerk shall take, within five working days
after the hearing, any of the following actions:
      (1)   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
      (2)   Revoke the license;
      (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation for a period
of up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of this chapter
occur during the period of probation; or
      (4)   Take no action.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall provide written notice of his or her decision to
the applicant by certified mail, returned receipt requested. The notice shall
be sent immediately after the Town Clerk determines what action to take, as
described above.
   (D)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Superior Court of the county within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or probation.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.09  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the Town Clerk on
application forms provided for that purpose. Any license issued under this
chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12-month period from the date of its
issuance, and renewal applications for the licenses shall be submitted no
sooner than 45 days prior to expiration and no later than the town business day
immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in full
of the license fee, the Town Clerk shall issue to the applicant a receipt
showing the date of the renewal application and granting to the applicant a
temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or until the
application for renewal is approved or disapproved.
      (1)   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
renewed by issuance of a new license for an additional 12-month period.
      (2)   All applications for renewal of license shall be processed in the
manner provided for the issuance of the initial license.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.10  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION
§ 114.25  LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses may by permitted in certain zoning districts as
permitted by the town's Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 155), provided that:
   (A)   The sexually oriented business may not be located or operated:
      (1)   Within 1,500 feet of:
         (a)   A church, synagogue or regular place of worship;
         (b)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
         (c)   A public library;
         (d)   A public park or playground;
         (e)   A licensed day-care center;
         (f)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
children; or
         (g)   Another sexually oriented business.
      (2)   Within 500 feet of:
         (a)   Any building used as a dwelling; or
         (b)   A boundary of any residential zoning district.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the lot line used as part of the premises where a sexually
oriented business is conducted, to the nearest lot line of the premises of any
use listed in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.26  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
      (1)   The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period
not to exceed two years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of 30 days or more.
      (2)   The nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended
or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
      (3)   If two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,500 feet
of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later-established business(es) is
nonconforming.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license. This provision applies only
to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.27  ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person, and within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.28  ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.29  NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this chapter if
the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if
the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
visible by any other person.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.30  EXHIBITION OF EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS AND LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises a viewing
room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, other
video reproduction or live performance that depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Town Clerk may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Town Clerk or his or her
designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner so
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two or more manager's stations designed, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in a manner so that there is an unobstructive
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required
in this division may be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times, and
to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that
has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (4) above is in
violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.31  EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of the individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in a way so as to be a component
of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial multi-unit
center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.32  SIGNAGE.
   Signage for sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the town's Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.33  MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY A PERSON OF THE OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of those services by a person of the opposite sex. Violation of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.34  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.35  EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (B)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)
§ 114.36  NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Town Clerk or any
other town office, division, department or other agency under this chapter to
any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be given
either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the Town Clerk. Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that
any notice by mail is returned by the postal service, the Town Clerk or his or
her designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to the
establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Town Clerk by any
person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Town Clerk in writing of
any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.37  INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license or in violation of this chapter, is subject to
a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each day
a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: MOBILE AND ITINERANT BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Application for licenses
Regulations for Operation
   
115.25   Locational restrictions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public safety and orderly
movement of pedestrians and, where designated, drivers who use town rights-of-
way and/or town property.
   (B)   Protect the town’s business community by eliminating the inequity
faced by stationary businesses that compete with itinerant and mobile
businesses that may be operating without town business licenses and outside
regulatory authority of the town, which unfair competition threatens to erode
town tax revenue and undermine the strength of its commercial life.
§ 115.02  DEFINITIONS.
   ITINERANT VENDOR.  A person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent,
consignee, or employee, whether a resident of the town or not, who engages in a
business of selling goods, ware, food, fishing bait or gear, merchandise of any
kind or description and who commonly conducts such business either:  a) in or
about a structure that is not permanently affixed to real property, or b) by
traveling from place to place, customer to customer, or client to client for
the purpose of conducting business with customers or clients located with the
Town of Weldon.
   MOBILE VENDOR. Itinerant business operator or vendor who conducts business
from a vehicle.
§ 115.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Mobile and Itinerant Business License.  A person, firm, or corporation
desiring to secure a license as an itinerant or mobile vendor shall make
application to the Town Clerk on forms approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners.  In addition to any items required, which shall be kept on file
by the Town Clerk, such application shall provide:
      (1)   The name or names and address of the applicant, vehicle license
number(s) if the applicant proposes to conduct business from a vehicle,
description of the general type of goods, wares, merchandise or food proposed
to be sold by the applicant; the place where the applicant proposes to engage
in business.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied with the applicable
application and/or license fee as established by the Town Board of
Commissioners, which fee schedule shall be on file with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Application processing.  Upon receipt of a complete application for a
mobile or itinerant business license, the Town Clerk shall immediately commence
investigation of the application as follows:
      (1)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall report to the Town Clerk no later
than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by the Town Clerk
whether or not a proposed business complies with the requirements of the zoning
ordinance regarding location, building, fire, health or similar state or local
code(s).  In the event, the Zoning Administrator fails to report to the Town
Clerk within this time period, the Town Clerk shall proceed with processing the
application.
      (3)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
applicable fees and upon receipt of the report of the Zoning Administrator, the
Town Clerk shall determine whether or not a license shall be issued.  In no
event shall the time period for determination by the Town Clerk exceed 30
working days from the date the application is received, unless consented to by
the applicant.
   (C)   Notice of approval or disapproval.
      (1)   Upon determination by the Town Clerk of the approval or disapproval
of the application, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant by personal
delivery or mail to the address of the applicant as shown on the application. 
In the event that the application is disapproved, the notification shall state
the basis for the disapproval.
REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION
§ 115.25  LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Mobile and Itinerant Vendors may be permitted in certain zoning districts as
permitted by the town’s Zoning Ordinance (See Table of Uses – Section 304 and
Developmental Standards – 504), provided that:
      No mobile or itinerant vendor shall conduct business:
      (1)   So as to violate any ordinances of the town, including those
regulating traffic and right-of- way, as now in effect or hereafter amended.
      (2)   Within 300 feet of the entrance to a business establishment which
is open for business and is offering for sale the same or similar product as an
item offered for sale by the mobile or itinerant vendor.
      (3)   Within any Residential Zoning District.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Advertising; crying out articles or events
   
130.02   Marking or painting on streets or sidewalks
   
130.03   Posting notices on trees and the like
   
130.04   Posting on property of others
   
130.05   Amusements; attending without paying prescribed fee
   
130.06   Disorderly conduct
   
130.07   Fireworks; firearms
   
130.08   Medicine samples; leaving at dwelling houses and the like
   
130.09   Projectiles; archery ranges
   
130.10   Whistles, horns, sirens and the like
   
130.11   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activity
§ 130.01  ADVERTISING; CRYING OUT ARTICLES OR EVENTS.
   No person shall advertise any article or event of any kind by crying out the
same or by using therefor any megaphone, bell, horn or other noise-making
device on any street or sidewalk.
(1977 Code, § 20-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Using sidewalks to display merchandise, see §
97.12
§ 130.02  MARKING OR PAINTING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall advertise, or attempt to advertise, by marking or painting
on any of the streets or sidewalks.
(1977 Code, § 20-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  POSTING NOTICES ON TREES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall tack or affix any notice of any nature, except road highway
direction signs, on any tree, telephone or electric light post or pole of any
kind, on the streets.
(1977 Code, § 20-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful posting, painting and the like, of advertisements generally, see
G.S. § 14-145
§ 130.04  POSTING ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   No person shall post any bills, signs or advertisements on any buildings,
fences or other property belonging to another, without the consent of the owner
thereof. The consent shall be secured in writing, and the written consent shall
be exhibited by the person having the same to any police officer on demand.
(1977 Code, § 20-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  AMUSEMENTS; ATTENDING WITHOUT PAYING PRESCRIBED FEE.
   No person shall attend any show or other amusement in the town without
paying therefor the prescribed fee.
(1977 Code, § 20-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Riding taxicabs without paying prescribed fare, see §
113.07
§ 130.06  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following shall be
guilty of disorderly conduct:
      (1)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his or her life,
limb or health;
      (2)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in
danger of being destroyed or damaged;
      (3)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence or threats of bodily harm;
      (4)   Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl
or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of
another or public property;
      (5)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl;
      (6)   Any person who shall collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in
unlawful activities;
      (7)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
and engage or attempt to engage in gaming;
      (8)   Any person who shall frequent any public place and obtain money
from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device, or
attempt to do so;
      (9)   Any person who assembles with another or others and engages in any
fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or
from any person, or attempts to do so;
      (10)   Any person who utters, in a public place or any place open to the
public, any obscene words or epithets;
      (11)   Any person who frequents any place where gaming or the illegal
sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is
practiced, allowed or tolerated;
      (12)   Any person who shall use "fighting words" directed towards any
person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil;
      (13)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
and do bodily harm to another;
      (14)   Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with
another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
      (15)   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on
any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
who shall refuse to clear the public way when ordered to do so by a peace
officer or other person having authority; and
      (16)   Any person who damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the
property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically
offensive condition.
   (B)   Any person convicted of disorderly conduct, as defined in this
section, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1977 Code, § 20-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct generally, see G.S. § 14-288.4
§ 130.07  FIREWORKS; FIREARMS.
   (A)   No pyrotechnical display of any kind shall be allowed in the town,
unless a permit is obtained by Town of Weldon and Halifax County.
   (B)   The sale of fireworks of any kind is strictly prohibited, unless a
permit is obtained by Town of Weldon and Halifax County.
   (C)   No person shall fire any pistol, gun or other firearm, or any
fireworks or other pyrotechnics, for sport or amusement.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of a child to knowingly permit the
child to discharge any fireworks, pyrotechnics, firearm, gun, pistol, rifle,
slingshot or any like instrument used to eject a pellet or projectile.
(1977 Code, § 20-8)  (Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Discharge of firearms in cemeteries, see §
91.09
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate, restrict or prohibit discharge and the like,
of firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
   Authority of town to restrict, regulate or prohibit storage, sale, use and
the like, of explosive or inflammable substances, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 130.08  MEDICINE SAMPLES; LEAVING AT DWELLING HOUSES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall leave any sample of medicine of any kind at the dwelling
house or in the yard of any person, unless the same is left with or in care of
some person of sufficient age and discretion to properly care for the same.
(1977 Code, § 20-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09  PROJECTILES; ARCHERY RANGES.
   No person shall shoot or project any stone, rock, shot or other hard
substance by means of a slingshot, bean shooter, air rifle, popgun, bow or
other similar contrivance, provided, that archery shooting may be engaged in on
grounds as may be set aside and approved therefor by the Board of
Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 20-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate use of mechanisms and the like, designed or
used to project missiles with less than deadly force, see G.S. § 160A-190
§ 130.10  WHISTLES, HORNS, SIRENS AND THE LIKE.
   No person, without special authority from the Police Department or Fire
Department, shall carry or use any whistle, bell, horn or siren similar in
appearance or sound to the whistles, horns or sirens used by the Police
Department or Fire Department.
(1977 Code, § 20-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11  LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER.  A person who has, within
the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within this
state of any violation involving the use, possession or sale of any of the
substances referred to in the State Controlled Substances Act, Article 5 of
G.S. Chapter 90, being G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq., or has been convicted of any
violation of any substantially similar laws of any political subdivision of
this state or of any other state or of federal law.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza,
park, driveway, parking lot or transportation facility, or the doorways and
entrance ways to any building which fronts on any of those places, or a motor
vehicle in or on any of those places, or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to
engage, in a violation of any subdivision of the State Controlled Substances
Act, Article 5 of G.S. Chapter 90, being G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq.
      (1)   Those circumstances shall include:
         (a)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-
by, or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
         (b)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
         (c)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
         (d)   The persons is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
         (e)   The person behaves in a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful
drug-related activity;
         (f)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
         (g)   The person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a
police officer;
         (h)   The person is at a location frequented by persons who use,
possess or sell drugs; or
         (i)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug
user, possessor or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-
related activities.
      (2)   A violation of any provisions of this section shall subject the
offender to the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1989)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   IMPROVEMENTS
         
152.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
         
153.   LAND USE PLAN
         
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
155.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Generally
   
150.01   Scope of chapter and regulatory codes
   
150.02   Contractors; registration
   
150.03   Fire limits
   
150.04   Building Code adopted
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.06   Compliance
   
150.07   Official copies
   
150.08   House number; duty of owner to display
Inspection Department
   
150.20   Composition
   
150.21   Duties; generally
   
150.22   Conflicts of interest
   
150.23   Records; reports
   
150.24   Inspection procedure
   
150.25   Powers of Building Inspector
   
150.26   Oversights and dereliction of duty not to legalize violation
Permits
   
150.40   Generally
   
150.41   Applications; generally
   
150.42   Accompanying plans and specifications
   
150.43   Limitations on issuance
   
150.44   Issuance
   
150.45   Revocation
   
150.46   Time limitations on validity
   
150.47   Changes in work after issuance
   
150.48   Fees
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.60   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.61   Duty of owner; failure/refusal to act
   
150.62   Notification of owner; hearing
   
150.63   Order to remedy or demolish
   
150.64   Appeal; finality if not appealed
   
150.65   Report upon failure of owner to comply or appeal
   
150.66   Action by Board of Commissioners; assessment of cost of removal and
the like; lien
   
150.67   Notice of hearing by Board of Commissioners
   
150.68   Presumption of public danger necessitating summary abatement
   
150.69   Willful failure or refusal to comply with orders
Cross-references:
   Excavations generally, see §§
97.40 through
97.44
   Fire prevention generally, see
Chapter 92
   Garbage and refuse generally, see
Chapter 50
   Noises generally, see
Chapter 94
   Plumbing generally, see
Chapter 112
   Trailers and trailer parks generally, see
Chapter 152
   Water and sewers generally, see
Chapter 51
   Zoning generally, see
Chapter 155
Statutory reference:
   Building Code Council and North Carolina State Building Code generally, see
G.S. §§ 143-136 to 143-143.5
   State law as to buildings and building inspection generally, see G.S. §§
160A-411 to 160A-438
GENERALLY
§ 150.01  SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND REGULATORY CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure; and
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1977 Code, § 6-1)
§ 150.02  CONTRACTORS; REGISTRATION.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor or electrical
contractor within the town shall register at the office of the Inspection
Department, giving his or her name and place of business.
(1977 Code, § 6-2)
§ 150.03  FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the town shall include all territory embraced within the
corporate limits.
(1977 Code, § 6-4)
Statutory reference:
   Law as to authority of town as to establishment and the like of fire limits,
see G.S. §§ 160A-435 to 160A-438
§ 150.04  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The current edition of the State Building Code, General Construction, as
adopted by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Building Code of the town,
to the extent the code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of
construction, minimum standards and use of materials in buildings or structures
erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(1977 Code, § 6-5)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see §§
92.45 through
92.50
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of State Building Code within all municipalities, see G.S. §
143-138(e)
   Authority of town to adopt certain technical or regulatory codes by
reference, see G.S. § 160A-76
§ 150.05  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the State Electrical Code (North Carolina State
Building Code, Electrical), adopting by reference the National Electrical Code
of the National Fire Protection Association, as adopted by the State Building
Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though
set forth herein as the Electrical Code for the town.
(1977 Code, § 6-6)
§ 150.06  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are constructed, reconstructed,
erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or moved shall
conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions of the
State Building Code, General Construction, Volume I, to the extent that the
code is applicable to the construction or other work.
   (B)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the State Electrical Code
(North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(1977 Code, § 6-7)
§ 150.07  OFFICIAL COPIES.
   (A)   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted in this chapter, and
official copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office
of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the
amendments.
(1977 Code, § 6-8)
§ 150.08  HOUSE NUMBER; DUTY OF OWNER TO DISPLAY.
   (A)   Each building within the corporate limits of the town shall display a
house number, of a size and contrasting color that it can be easily
distinguished.
   (B)   The duty to display the number shall be on the owner of the property,
and it shall be the duty of the owner not only to put the number in place, but
to maintain the same in the manner set forth in division (A) above. In the
event that there is any building in the town that does not have a number, a
number will be assigned by the Building Inspector of the town, in compliance
with this section and with existing postal regulations which require numbers on
all buildings where mail is delivered.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to allow his or her
building to be without a number as herein prescribed after the effective date
of this section. Any person convicted of violation of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1984)  Penalty, see §
10.99
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.20  COMPOSITION.
   The Inspection Department shall consist of a Building Inspector and the
other inspectors or deputy or assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the
Board of Commissioners.
(1977 Code, § 6-9)
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing inspection generally, see §§
112.35 through
112.40
§ 150.21  DUTIES; GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein, and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met.
(1977 Code, § 6-10)
§ 150.22  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof which
he or she inspects or in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless
he or she is the owner of the building. No officer or employee of the
Inspection Department shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his
or her duties or with the interests of the town.
(1977 Code, § 6-11)
§ 150.23  RECORDS; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Inspection Department and each Inspector shall keep complete,
permanent and accurate records in convenient form of all applications received,
permits issued, inspections and re-inspections made and all other work and
activities of the Inspection Department.
   (B)   Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners and
to other agencies, as required.
(1977 Code, § 6-12)
§ 150.24  INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections required. The Inspection Department shall inspect all
buildings and structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has
been issued as often as necessary, in order to determine whether the work
complies with this chapter and the appropriate codes.
      (1)   When deemed necessary by the Inspector, materials and assemblies
may be inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or inspections may
be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations; provided, that no
approval shall be based upon reports of the organizations, unless the same are
in writing and certified by responsible officers of the organizations.
      (2)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the
Inspection Department at each of the following stages of construction, so that
approval may be given before work is continued.
         (a)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
         (b)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is
in place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed, and after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are
installed, but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in
place concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
         (c)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to
be protected by fireproofing are lathed but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
         (d)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung and fixtures set and is ready for occupancy, but before the
building is occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspections.
      (1)   Requests for inspections may be made to the office of the
Inspection Department.
      (2)   The Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as
practicable after request is made therefor; provided, that the work is ready
for inspection at the time the request is made.
      (3)   Re-inspections may be made at the convenience of the Inspector. No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection.
      (4)   Approval or rejection of the work shall be furnished by the
Inspector in the form of a notice posted on the building or given to the permit
holder or his or her agent. Failure to call for inspections or proceeding
without approval at each stage of construction shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines and the like.
      (1)   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or
structure on the line of any street, alley or other public place, he or she
shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley or other public place
adjacent to the property upon which the building or structure is to be erected
before proceeding with construction of the building or structure.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley or other public place.
(1977 Code, § 6-13)
§ 150.25  POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Authority. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes
herein adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Building Inspector shall have the right of entry
on any premises within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted
at reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the
requirements of this chapter and the regulatory codes, upon presentation of
proper credentials.
   (C)   Stop orders.
      (1)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a hazardous
manner or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other town
ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit issued therefor, or in a
manner as to endanger life or property, the Building Inspector may order the
work to be immediately stopped.
      (2)   The order shall be in writing to the owner of the property or to
his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the reasons
therefor and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
(1977 Code, § 6-14)
§ 150.26  OVERSIGHTS AND DERELICTION OF DUTY NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(1977 Code, § 6-15)
PERMITS
§ 150.40  GENERALLY.
   No person shall commence or proceed with the installation, extension,
alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring, devices, appliances or
equipment, without a written permit therefor from the Building Inspector;
provided, that no permit shall be required for minor repair work, such as the
replacement of lamps or the connection of portable devices to suitable
receptacles which have been permanently installed; provided further, that no
permit shall be required for the installation, alteration or repair of the
electrical wiring, devices, appliances and equipment installed by or for an
electrical public utility corporation for the use of the corporation in the
generation, transmission, distribution or metering of electrical energy, or for
the use of the corporation in the operation of signals or the transmission of
intelligence.
(1977 Code, § 6-16)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1979)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.41  APPLICATIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department.
   (B)   The application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative and, in
addition to other information as may be required by the Inspector to enable him
or her to determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall show
the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of the owner;
      (2)   Name, residence and business address of the authorized
representative or agent, if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for the contractors, if that is required for the work involved in the
permit for which application is made.
(1977 Code, § 6-17)
§ 150.42  ACCOMPANYING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
a permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in
excess of $90,000, and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the Inspector in order for him or her to
determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate regulatory
codes.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and specifications
together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that the work
proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate
regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a copy of the
same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have been
completed and approved by the Inspector.
(1977 Code, § 6-18)
§ 150.43  LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure, the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $30,000, unless the plans bear the state seal of a registered
architect or a registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provision of the General Statutes of North Carolina or of
any ordinance requires that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of
any kind, no permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed
by the licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications
have been provided.
(1977 Code, § 6-19)
§ 150.44  ISSUANCE.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the Inspector is
satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with the provisions
of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she shall issue the
permit, upon payment of the proper fee.
(1977 Code, § 6-20)
§ 150.45  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
   (B)   Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the Inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(1977 Code, § 6-21)
§ 150.46  TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY.
   (A)   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six
months after the date of issuance, if the work authorized by the permit has not
been commenced.
   (B)   If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire.
   (C)   No work authorized by any permit which has expired shall thereafter be
performed until a new permit therefor has been secured.
(1977 Code, § 6-22)
§ 150.47  CHANGES IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein shall not be made, until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the Inspector.
(1977 Code, § 6-23)
§ 150.48  FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontracts, if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the town, as determined by the Inspector. Permit fees shall be as established
by the Board of Commissioners. A schedule of the fees shall be maintained by
the Inspection Department and be available for public inspection during the
normal office hours of the Inspection Department.
(1977 Code, § 6-24)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.60  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition so as to be dangerous to
life, health or other property or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a
public nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   The unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire, exits or any other
hazardous conditions or circumstances.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall have authority, and it shall be his or
her duty, to declare all the buildings or structures unsafe and to take
appropriate action to have the conditions corrected or removed.
   (D)   The declaration by the Building Inspector shall constitute an order of
condemnation for the purposes of this subchapter.
(1977 Code, § 6-25)
§ 150.61  DUTY OF OWNER; FAILURE/REFUSAL TO ACT.
   Whenever any building or structure has been condemned by the Building
Inspector and the existence of the building or structure in a dilapidated state
of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and determined by the
Building Inspector or, upon appeal from or report by the Building Inspector as
hereafter provided, by the Board of Commissioners to be dangerous to life,
health or other property or is in a condition as to constitute a fire or safety
hazard or a public nuisance, the owner of the building or structure shall be
required to demolish and remove the same and remedy the conditions under the
regulations and procedures herein provided. In the event the owner fails or
refuses so to do within the time directed by the Building Inspector or by the
Board of Commissioners as hereinafter provided, the Board of Commissioners may,
in its judgment, cause the same to be demolished and removed or other steps
taken as it may find to be necessary to suppress and abate the nuisance and
remove the fire or safety hazard and the danger to life, health or other
property found to exist and specially assess the cost and expense of doing the
work against the lot or parcel of land on which the building or structure is
located.
(1977 Code, § 6-26)
§ 150.62  NOTIFICATION OF OWNER; HEARING.
   (A)   Before any building or structure may be ordered to be demolished and
removed as provided in §
150.61 above, the Building Inspector shall notify the owner thereof, in
writing, by certified or registered mail to the last known address of the
owner, or by personal service of the notice by the Building Inspector or his or
her assistant or by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that the building
or structure is in a condition as appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard
or danger to life, health or other property, or to be a public nuisance and
that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a designated place
at a time not less than ten days after the date of the written notice, at which
time and place the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
upon all legal or factual questions relating to the matter and shall be
entitled to offer evidence as he or she may desire which is relevant or
material to the questions sought to be determined or the remedies sought to be
effected.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice herein referred to shall be considered properly and
adequately served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or
structure in question at least ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing
and a notice of the hearing is published one time in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least one week prior to the date fixed for the
hearing. The notice shall state the address or location of the building or
structure and the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(1977 Code, § 6-27)
§ 150.63  ORDER TO REMEDY OR DEMOLISH.
   If, upon the hearing as provided in §
150.62 above, the Building Inspector shall find that the building or structure
in question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property or is a public nuisance, he or she shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of the building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the conditions so found to exist by demolishing and removing the
building or structure or taking other steps as may be necessary to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards, within that period, not less than 60 days, as
the Building Inspector may prescribe.
(1977 Code, § 6-28)
§ 150.64  APPEAL; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   (A)   The owner of any building or structure ordered by the Building
Inspector to be demolished and removed, or who is directed by the Building
Inspector to take any other steps to abate a nuisance or remove hazards found
by the Building Inspector to exist, shall have the right of appeal from the
orders to the Board of Commissioners; provided, that the owner gives notice of
appeal to the Building Inspector at the time of the hearing at which the order
is made or, within ten days after the order is made, files with the Building
Inspector a written notice of the appeal.
   (B)   Notice of appeal shall state the grounds therefor. Unless an appeal is
taken within the time and in the manner herein prescribed, the action of the
Building Inspector shall be deemed final, subject only to action as the Board
of Commissioners may take as herein elsewhere provided.
   (C)   Where an appeal has been properly taken and notice thereof given in
accordance with the provisions of this section, it shall be the duty of the
Building Inspector to report the same to the Mayor, who shall cause the matter
to be placed on the agenda for action by the Board of Commissioners at its next
ensuing regular meeting. The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to
continue the hearing of the appeal from time to time, in its discretion.
(1977 Code, § 6-29)
§ 150.65  REPORT UPON FAILURE OF OWNER TO COMPLY OR APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event the owner does not appeal from the final order or
direction of the Building Inspector requiring that the building or structure be
demolished and removed or the taking of other steps as may be required to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, and fails or refuses to comply with the
order and direction, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to file a
written report thereof with the mayor, who shall cause the report to be placed
on the agenda for action by the Board of Commissioners at its next ensuing
regular meeting or to some subsequent meeting to which the Board of
Commissioners may continue the same.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall mail a copy of the report by certified or
registered mail to the owner at his or her last known address or have a copy of
the report delivered to the owner. The report shall specify the date of the
meeting of the Board of Commissioners for which the matter will be docketed for
action.
(1977 Code, § 6-30)
§ 150.66  ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; ASSESSMENT OF COST OF REMOVAL AND
THE LIKE; LIEN.
   (A)   In all cases referred to in this chapter which reach the Board of
Commissioners for action, either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of
the Building Inspector or upon report of the Building Inspector that the owner
fails or refuses to comply with his or her order or direction, the Board of
Commissioners shall hear the matter, and if it finds and determines that the
building or structure in question is in such a dilapidated or substandard state
of disrepair as to constitute a fire or safety hazard, or to be dangerous to
life, health or other property, or is a public nuisance, and that the owner of
the building or structure has failed or refused to abate the nuisance and has
failed or refused to have the building or structure demolished and removed or
has failed or refused to take other steps as may be necessary to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards found to exist, it may cause the demolition and
removal of the building or structure to be done or effect other remedies as may
be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards and specially assess
the cost of the work against the lot or parcel of land on which the building or
structure was situated.
   (B)   The assessment shall constitute a specific lien upon the lot or parcel
of land, which may be enforced by an action instituted in the name of the town
in the nature of special assessments as provided by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article
10.
(1977 Code, § 6-31)
§ 150.67  NOTICE OF HEARING BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   In cases in which the Building Inspector has been unable to give the owner
actual notice of hearing in the manner provided in this subchapter and has
given the notice by posting and publishing the same as authorized in §
150.62 above, and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or
direction of the Building Inspector to demolish and remove the building or
structure or take other remedial action as will remove the hazards, and that
case is referred to the Board of Commissioners for action, the Board of
Commissioners shall, before taking action, cause to be posted on the outside of
the building or structure in question at least ten days prior to the date fixed
for the hearing, and published one time in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least one week prior to the date fixed for the
hearing, a written notice stating the address or location of the building or
structure involved, the time, place and purpose of the hearing and other
information as the Board of Commissioners may deem advisable.
(1977 Code, § 6-32)
§ 150.68  PRESUMPTION OF PUBLIC DANGER NECESSITATING SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   In all cases in which the Board of Commissioners, under authority of this
subchapter, causes the demolition and removal of any building or structure to
be carried out or directs other remedial steps to be taken as may be necessary
to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be conclusively presumed
that the public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard and danger to life,
health or other property created and maintained by the continued presence of
the building or structure in the condition as is found to exist constitute a
clear and present danger amounting to a situation of emergency involving the
public health, safety and general welfare, which requires entry upon private
property for the summary abatement and removal of the danger, in the public
interest.
(1977 Code, § 6-33)
§ 150.69  WILLFUL FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or Board of
Commissioners made by virtue and in pursuance of this article, and any person
violating this subchapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided by
G.S. § 14-4 for the violation of municipal ordinances, and every day the person
shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any final order or direction of
the Building Inspector or Board of Commissioners made by virtue and in
pursuance of this article shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1977 Code, § 6-34)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151:  IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
151.01   Authority to make, levy assessments and the like; when petition not
required
   
151.02   Petition generally
   
151.03   Preliminary resolution
   
151.04   Assessments; ascertainment; assessment roll
   
151.05   Levy
   
151.06   Filing of assessment roll; notice of hearing
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 97
§ 151.01  AUTHORITY TO MAKE, LEVY ASSESSMENTS AND THE LIKE; WHEN PETITION NOT
REQUIRED.
   The town shall have power, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners, upon
petition made as provided in §
151.02 below, to cause local improvements to be made and to defray the expense
of improvements by local assessments, by general taxation and by borrowing, as
provided in this chapter. No petition shall be necessary for the ordering or
making of private water and sewer connections, nor shall a petition be
necessary for the making of sidewalk improvements by the town when other laws
authorize the sidewalk improvements to be made without petition.
(1977 Code, § 14-1)
§ 151.02  PETITION GENERALLY.
   (A)   The petition for local improvement shall be signed by at least a
majority in number of the owners, who shall represent at least a majority of
all the lineal feet of frontage of the lands (a majority in interest of owners
of undivided interests in any piece of property to be deemed and treated as one
person for the purposes of the petition) abutting upon the street proposed to
be improved.
   (B)   The petition shall cite the General Statutes of North Carolina
relative to local improvements, and shall designate by a general description
the local improvement to be undertaken and the street or part thereof whereon
the work is to be effected.
   (C)   The petition shall be lodged with the Town Tax Collector, who shall
investigate the sufficiency thereof, submit the petition to the Board of
Commissioners and certify the result of his or her investigation.
   (D)   The determination of the Board upon the sufficiency of the petition
shall be final and conclusive.
(1977 Code, § 14-2)
§ 151.03  PRELIMINARY RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Generally. The preliminary resolution determining to make a local
improvement shall, after its passage, be published. The resolution shall
designate by a general description the improvement to be made, the street or
part thereof whereon the work is to be effected, the proportion of the cost
thereof to be assessed upon abutting property and the terms and manner of the
payment.
   (B)   Sidewalk improvements. If the resolution shall provide for a sidewalk
improvement, it may, without petition, direct that the owners of the property
abutting on the improvement shall make the sidewalk improvement, and that
unless the same shall be made by the owners on or before a day specified in the
resolution, the Board of Commissioners may cause the sidewalk improvement to be
made.
   (C)   Improvements affecting railroads. If the resolution shall provide for
a street improvement, it shall direct that any railroad company having tracks
on the street or part thereof to be improved, shall make the street
improvement, with the material and of a character as may be approved by the
Board, in that part of the street which the Board may prescribe, not to exceed,
the space between the tracks, the rails of the tracks and 18 inches in width
outside of the tracks of the company; and that unless the improvement shall be
made on or before a day specified in the resolution, the Board will cause the
improvement to be made. Where any company shall occupy the street under a
franchise or contract which provides otherwise, the franchise or contract shall
not be affected by this section, except insofar as may be consistent with the
provisions of the franchise or contract.
   (D)   Water and sewer connections. If the resolution shall provide for a
street or sidewalk improvement, it may, but need not, direct that the owners of
all property abutting on the improvement shall connect their several premises
to water and sewer lines in the manner prescribed in the resolution, and that
unless the owners shall cause the connection to be made on or before a day
specified in the resolution, the Board will cause the same to be made.
(1977 Code, § 14-3)
§ 151.04  ASSESSMENTS; ASCERTAINMENT; ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   Upon completion of any local improvement, the Board of Commissioners
shall compute and ascertain the total cost thereof.
   (B)   In the total cost shall be included the interest paid or to be paid on
notes or certificates of indebtedness issued by the town to pay the expense of
the improvement, according to the provisions of this chapter and incident to
the improvement and assessment therefor.
   (C)   The Board shall thereupon make an assessment of the total cost,
pursuant to the provisions of §
151.06 below, and for that purpose, shall make out an assessment roll in which
shall be entered the names of the persons assessed, as far as they can
ascertain the same, and the amount assessed against each person respectively,
with a brief description of the lots and parcels of land assessed.
(1977 Code, § 14-4)
§ 151.05  LEVY.
   (A)   One-half on abutting property; exceptions. One-half of the total cost
of a street or sidewalk improvement made by the town, exclusive of so much of
the cost as is incurred at the street intersections and the share of railroads,
shall be specifically assessed upon the lots and parcels of land abutting
directly on the improvement, according to the extent of their respective
frontage, unless the petition for the street or sidewalk improvement shall
request that a larger proportion of the cost, specified in the petition, be so
assessed, in which case the larger proportion shall be so assessed, and the
remainder of the cost shall be borne by the town at large. No assessment for
streets and sidewalks shall be made against abutting property on any street or
sidewalk until the street or sidewalk has been definitely laid out and the
boundaries of the same definitely fixed.
   (B)   Assessments after default; upon railroads. The cost of that part of a
street improvement required to be borne by a railroad company and made by the
town after default by a railroad company in making the same, as provided in §
151.03 above, shall be assessed against the company and shall be collected from
abutting property owners, and the assessment shall be a lien on all of the
franchises and property of the railroad company.
   (C)   For sidewalks. The entire cost of a sidewalk improvement required to
be made by owners of property abutting thereon and made by the town after
default by the property owners in making same, as provided in §
151.03 above, shall be assessed against the lots and parcels of land abutting
on that side of the street upon which the improvement is made and directly on
the improvement, according to their respective frontages thereon, by an equal
rate per foot of the frontage.
   (D)   Water and sewer connections. The entire cost of each water and sewer
connection required to be made by the owner of the property for or in
connection with which the connection was made, but made by the town after
default by the property owner in making the same, as provided in §
151.03 above, shall be specially assessed against the particular lot or parcel
of land for or in connection with which it was made.
   (E)   Exemptions. No lands within the town shall be exempt from local
assessment.
(1977 Code, § 14-5)
§ 151.06  FILING OF ASSESSMENT ROLL; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Immediately after the assessment roll has been completed, the Board
shall cause the roll to be deposited in the office of the Town Tax Collector
for inspection by parties interested, and shall cause to be published a notice
of the completion of the assessment roll, setting forth a description in
general terms of the local improvement and the time fixed for the meeting of
the Board for the hearing of allegations and objections in respect to the
special assessment, the meeting not to be earlier than ten days from the first
publication or posting of the notice.
   (B)   Any number of assessment rolls may be included in one notice.
(1977 Code, § 14-6)
CHAPTER 152:  TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Conflicting provisions
   
152.03   Placement of trailers in trailer parks or on private lots
   
152.04   Permit for construction, maintenance or use
   
152.05   Location
   
152.06   Site requirements
   
152.07   Facilities for trailer occupants; generally
   
152.08   Water supply
   
152.09   Sewer connections
   
152.10   Cleanliness/maintenance of required facilities; discharge of wastes
§ 152.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER.  A house car, camp car, house trailer, trailer home, mobile home or
other similar vehicle mounted on wheels, skids or rollers, whether self-
propelled or propelled by other means, including any dismounted vehicle which
has been placed on a masonry or other stationary foundation and which is used
or designed to be used for permanent or semipermanent living or sleeping
quarters. The word TRAILER shall not include vehicles primarily designed for
the transportation of goods.
   TRAILER PARK.  Any lot, tract or parcel of land used, maintained, leased or
rented, or intended to be used, maintained, leased or rented, for occupancy by
one or more trailers, together with accessory structures provided in connection
therewith. The term TRAILER PARK shall not include trailer sales lots on which
unoccupied trailers are parked for the purposes of inspection and sale.
(1977 Code, § 28-1)
§ 152.02  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In the event the State or County Board of Health has adopted
regulations governing trailers or trailer parks in conflict with this chapter,
the more stringent requirements shall govern.
   (B)   Should there be any conflict between the provisions of this chapter
and the provisions of
Chapter 155, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(1977 Code, § 28-2)
§ 152.03  PLACEMENT OF TRAILERS IN TRAILER PARKS OR ON PRIVATE LOTS.
   (A)   No person shall place or maintain any trailer used for human
habitation or use any trailer for living, sleeping or business purposes on any
premises within the town except upon premises located within a trailer park;
provided, that individual trailers may be placed on lots within the town with
the permission of the Board of Commissioners, if the trailers are connected
with the town water system and sanitary sewer system or an approved septic
tank.
   (B)   One trailer may be parked or temporarily stored on any premises within
the town but outside of a trailer park for not exceeding 72 hours, if no living
quarters are maintained and no business conducted therein while the trailer is
so parked or temporarily stored.
   (C)   Trailers which are not occupied or used for business may be parked on
the owner's lot for a longer period of time, if the trailer owner shall acquire
a permit from the town, to be issued by the Mayor, which permit shall terminate
at the will of the town.
(1977 Code, § 28-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04  PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OR USE.
   (A)   No person shall construct, maintain or use any lot or other parcel of
land within the town for a trailer park until application has been made and a
permit therefor has been issued by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall, prior to issuing a permit, determine
that the applicant has complied with all the requirements of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 28-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05  LOCATION.
   A trailer park shall be located only within those zoning districts where a
trailer park is a permitted use.
(1977 Code, § 28-5)
§ 152.06  SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Trailer parks shall comply with the area, location and other
dimensional requirements of this section. Prior to granting a permit for a
trailer park, the Board of Commissioners may require the owner or developer to
submit a complete plan of the proposed park, showing the location of the
boundaries of the trailer park property, proposed vehicle exits, entrances and
off-street parking spaces, trailer space layout and other information as the
Board may deem necessary to determine if all requirements of this code and
other applicable ordinances are to be met.
   (B)   Site requirements for all trailer parks shall be as follows.
      (1)   Minimum lot size; trailer parks. The minimum size lot, tract or
parcel of land to be used for a trailer park shall be 10,000 square feet, and
the site shall have an average width of not less than 100 feet.
      (2)   Individual trailers. The minimum size trailer site or lot to be
occupied by one trailer shall be 25 feet by 50 feet, and the site shall be
identified by markers placed at each corner thereof.
      (3)   Distance between trailers. No trailer shall be placed within five
feet of its individual trailer site or lot line as established in division (B)
(2) above, or within ten feet of any other trailer, side to side or less than
14 feet of any other trailer, end to end.
      (4)   Distance between trailers and streets and the like. No trailer
shall be located within 15 feet of any street or exterior boundary line of a
trailer park.
      (5)   Parking. One off-street automobile parking space shall be provided
on the site in an approved manner for each trailer housing unit placed in the
trailer park. The off-street parking space shall be set aside in a location
convenient to the occupants of the trailer units and shall have ingress and
egress by means of a public way. Where parking areas are provided adjacent to a
public street, ingress and egress thereto shall be only through driveways or
openings not exceeding 25 feet in width at the curb line of the street.
(1977 Code, § 28-6)
§ 152.07  FACILITIES FOR TRAILER OCCUPANTS; GENERALLY.
   Each trailer park shall provide minimum facilities for trailer occupants as
follows.
   (A)   Sanitary facilities. Enclosed bathroom facilities shall be constructed
which have an approved connection to the on-site water and sanitary sewer
facilities. The facilities shall be designated in order that two wash basins,
two toilets and one shower are available for each four trailers the park is
designed to accommodate, and separate facilities shall be provided for men and
women. The bathroom structure and all plumbing installations shall conform to
the provisions of
Chapter 150 and
Chapter 112; provided, that:
      (1)   In lieu of installing toilet facilities, a separate sewer
connection for each trailer space within the trailer park may be constructed,
and each trailer shall be required to make a separate connection with the
sanitary sewer facilities. A minimum four-inch connection shall be required and
shall have approved fittings to ensure a watertight connection and means for
capping or closing the connection when it is not in use; and
      (2)   In lieu of the wash basin and shower facilities, approved
individual water connections may be made to each trailer; provided, that each
trailer is connected to the sanitary sewer system in the manner provided in
this division.
   (B)   Garbage and trash containers. One garbage and trash container of 30
gallons' maximum capacity shall be provided for each trailer. Containers shall
be placed on racks which are approved by the County Health Department, and the
racks shall be located within the trailer park at a point which is readily
accessible for collection; provided, that in lieu of requiring individual
containers for each trailer, other approved garbage and trash disposal
facilities may be provided with the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Driveways. Access driveways shall be constructed within trailer parks
when trailers are to be located more than 100 feet from a public street or off-
street parking space. Other approved access driveways may be constructed at the
option of the owner. All driveways shall be graded to a width of 15 feet for
one-way drives and to a width of 25 feet for two-way drives. All driveways
shall be kept opened and shall be constructed and maintained in a manner so as
to be passable to vehicular traffic under all weather conditions.
(1977 Code, § 28-7)
§ 152.08  WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate and safe supply of water shall be readily available at every
trailer park site,  This requirement shall be deemed to have been met:
   (A)   When an approved connection is made to the town water system; or
   (B)   When an independent water supply capable of furnishing 120 gallons of
water per day per available trailer space, and which has been approved by the
County Health Department as a safe supply of drinking water, is available on
the trailer park site.
(1977 Code, § 28-8)
§ 152.09  SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Each trailer park shall have a connection with the town sanitary sewer
system in the manner required by
Chapter 51. Any extension of the town sanitary sewer system required to comply
with this section shall be made in accordance with the policies of the town
then in effect.
(1977 Code, § 28-9)
§ 152.10  CLEANLINESS/MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED FACILITIES; DISCHARGE OF WASTES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner or his or her
authorized agent to keep each trailer park in a reasonably clean and sanitary
condition at all times, and to maintain and keep in good repair all required
trailer park facilities.
   (B)   All wastewater from washing machines and other similar sources shall
be discharged into the sanitary sewer system, and under no circumstances shall
the wastes be discharged on the ground or into streams.
(1977 Code, § 28-10)
CHAPTER 153:  LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adoption
§ 153.01  ADOPTION.
   The land use plan of the town is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption
§ 154.01  ADOPTION.
   The subdivision regulations of the town are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adoption
§ 155.01  ADOPTION.
   The zoning ordinance of the town is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1977 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference      Code Section
1-593               10.05
                    94.99;
14-4                96.52;
                    96.06;
                    150.69
14-4(a)             10.99
14-127              97.02
14-145              130.03
14-188              96.52
14-202.10           114.02
14-223              37.03
14-286              92.04
14-288.1 et seq.    Ch. 35
14-288.4            130.06
14-288.12           Ch. 35
Ch. 14, Art. 54     94.09
15-27.2             96.45
18B-1004            111.01
20-1 et seq.        Ch. 70
20-4.01             70.01
20-97               Ch. 70
20-129(e)           74.01
20-134              73.13
20-138.1–20-171.2 Ch. 72
20-140.2            72.30
20-141              72.25
20-144              72.25
20-145              72.25
20-153              72.07
20-156              70.06;
                    72.11
20-157(a)           72.06
20-157(b)           92.02
20-157(d)           92.03
20-158              Ch. 71
20-158.1            72.27
20-161–20-163     Ch. 73
20-168              70.04
                    Ch. 70;
20-169              Ch. 71;
                    72.25
20-171              70.06
20-174              70.07
20-219.11           96.28
20-222              96.28
                    Ch. 113;
20-280              113.03;
                    113.04
Ch. 44A             96.30
Ch. 58, Arts. 79–892.01
58-82-1             92.05
65-4 et seq.        Ch. 91
65-37–65-40       Ch. 91
69-25.1–69-25.17  92.01
90-86 et seq.       130.11
105-360             36.15
105-360(c)          36.15
105-414             150.66
136-71.6–136-71.13Ch. 74
136-141 et seq.     96.33
136-143             96.33
143-136–143-143.  Ch. 150
143-138(e)          150.04
153A-261–153A-271 Ch. 93
153A-266            93.02
159-1 et seq.       Ch. 36
159-24–159-30     32.03
160A-61             Ch. 31
160A-63             31.05
160A-64             31.12;
                    32.01
160A-69             Ch. 31
                    Ch. 31;
160A-70             31.08;
                    32.02
160A-71(b)          31.10
160A-71(c)          31.25
160A-74             31.02
160A-76             92.45;
                    150.04
160A-76–160A-79   31.45
160A-77(b)          Ch. 70
160A-171            32.03
160A-173            32.04
160A-174 et seq.    31.45
160A-175            10.99;
                    94.99
160A-175(d)         90.99
160A-175(e)         90.99
160A-179            130.06
160A-182            90.02
160A-183            130.07
160A-184            Ch. 94
160A-186            Ch. 90;
                    90.04
160A-187            Ch. 90
160A-189            130.07
160A-190            130.09
160A-193            Ch. 96;
                    96.05
160A-206            Ch. 36
160A-209            Ch. 36
160A-213            Ch. 70
Ch. 160A, Art. 10   150.66
160A-281            37.15
160A-281–160A-289 Ch. 37
160A-285            37.30
160A-291–160A-293 92.01
160A-292            92.28
160A-296            Ch. 97
160A-300            Ch. 70
160A-301            Ch. 73
160A-302            Ch. 73
160A-303            96.21
160A-303.2          96.21
160A-304(a)         113.20
160A-312            Ch. 51
160A-314            51.47;
                    51.63
160A-317            51.15;
                    51.47
160A-341–160A-348 Ch. 91
160A-369            30.02
160A-360 et seq.    30.02;
                    Ch. 33
160A-361            Ch. 33;
                    33.01
160A-362            Ch. 33
160A-411–160A-438 Ch. 150
160A-435–160A-438 150.04
160A-496            30.01
Ch. 163             34.01
163-1 et seq.       Ch. 34
163-279 et seq.     Ch. 34
163-302             34.02
164-7               10.14
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code 2010 Code
1977 Code 2010 Code
Part I    30.01
1-2       10.05
1-4       10.19
2-1       30.02
2-2       31.01
2-3       31.02
2-4       31.03
2-5       31.04
2-6       31.05
2-7       31.06
2-8       31.07
2-9       31.08
2-10      31.09
2-11      31.10
2-12      31.11
2-13      31.12
2-14      31.25
2-15      31.26
2-16      31.27
2-17      31.28
2-18      31.29
2-19      31.30
2-20      31.31
2-21      31.45
2-22      31.46
2-23      32.01
2-24      32.01
2-25      32.02
2-27      32.02
2-38      32.04
2-39      32.04
2-40      33.01
2-41      33.02
2-42      33.03
2-43      33.04
2-44      33.05
2-45      33.06
3-1       111.01
3-2       111.02
4-1       90.01
4-2       90.02
4-3       90.03
4-4       90.04
4-5       90.05
4-6       90.06
4-7       90.07
4-8       90.08
4-9       90.09
4-19      90.20
4-20      90.21
4-21      90.22
4-22      90.23
4-23      90.24
4-24      90.25
4-25      90.26
4-26      90.28
4-27      90.27
4-99      90.99
5-1       74.01
5-2       74.02
5-3       74.03
6-1       150.01
6-2       150.02
6-4       150.03
6-5       150.04
6-6       150.05
6-7       150.06
6-8       150.07
6-9       150.20
6-10      150.21
6-11      150.22
6-12      150.23
6-13      150.24
6-14      150.25
6-15      150.26
6-16      150.40
6-17      150.41
6-18      150.42
6-19      150.43
6-20      150.44
6-21      150.45
6-22      150.46
6-23      150.47
6-24      150.48
6-25      150.60
6-26      150.61
6-27      150.62
6-28      150.63
6-29      150.64
6-30      150.65
6-31      150.66
6-32      150.67
6-33      150.68
6-34      150.69
7-1       91.01
7-2       91.02
7-3       91.03
7-4       91.04
7-5       91.05
7-6       91.06
7-7       91.07
7-8       91.08
7-9       91.09
7-10      91.20
7-11      91.21
7-12      91.22
8-1       34.01
8-2       34.02
9-1       35.01
9-2       35.02
9-3       35.03
9-4       35.04
9-5       35.05
10-1      92.01
10-2      92.02
10-3      92.03
10-4      92.04
10-5      92.05
10-6      92.06
10-7      92.25
10-8      92.26
10-9      92.27
10-10     92.28
10-11     92.29
10-12     92.30
10-13     92.45
10-14     92.46
10-15     92.47
10-16     92.48
10-17     92.49
10-18     92.50
10-19     92.07
10-20     92.08
10-21     92.09
10-22     92.10
10-23     92.11
10-24     92.12
10-25     92.13
10-26     92.14
11-1      36.01
11-2      36.15
11-3      36.16
11-4      36.17
11-5      36.18
14-1      151.01
14-2      151.02
14-3      151.03
14-4      151.04
14-5      151.05
14-6      151.06
15-1      93.01
15-2      93.02
16-1      110.01
16-2      110.02
16-3      110.03
16-4      110.04
16-5      110.05
16-6      110.06
16-7      110.07
16-8      110.08
16-9      110.09
16-10     110.10
16-11     110.11
16-12     110.12
16-13     110.13
16-14     110.14
16-15     110.15
17-1      70.01
17-2      70.02
17-3      70.03
17-4      70.04
17-5      70.05
17-6      70.06
17-7      70.07
17-8      70.08
17-9      70.09
17-10     70.10
17-11     70.11
17-12     70.25
17-17     71.01
17-18     71.02
17-19     71.03
17-20     71.04
17-21     72.01
17-22     72.02
17-23     72.03
17-24     72.04
17-25     72.05
17-26     72.06
17-27     72.07
17-28     72.08
17-29     72.09
17-30     72.10
17-31     72.11
17-32     72.12
17-33     72.13
17-34     72.14
17-35     72.25
17-40     72.26
17-41     72.27
17-42     72.28
17-43     72.29
17-44     72.30
17-45     72.31
17-46     72.32
17-47     72.33
17-48     72.34
17-49     72.35
17-50     73.01
17-51     73.02
17-52     73.03
17-53     73.04
17-55     73.05
17-56     73.06
17-57     73.07
17-58     73.08
17-59     73.09
17-60     73.10
17-61     73.11
17-62     73.12
17-63     73.13
17-64     73.14
19-1      96.01
19-2      96.02
19-3      96.03
19-4      96.04
19-5      96.05
19-6      96.06
19-7      96.07
20-1      130.01
20-2      130.02
20-3      130.03
20-4      130.04
20-5      130.05
20-7      130.06
20-8      130.07
20-9      130.08
20-10     130.09
20-11     130.10
21-11     95.01
21-12     95.02
21-13     95.03
21-15     95.04
21-16     95.05
21-17     95.06
21-18     95.20
21-19     95.21
21-20     95.22
21-21     95.23
23-1      112.01
23-2      112.02
23-3      112.03
23-4      112.15
23-5      112.16
23-6      112.17
23-7      112.18
23-8      112.19
23-9      112.20
23-10     112.21
23-11     112.22
23-12     112.23
23-13     112.35
23-14     112.36
23-15     112.37
23-16     112.38
23-17     112.39
23-18     112.40
24-1      37.01
24-2      37.02
24-3      37.03
24-4      37.15
24-5      37.16
24-6      37.30
24-7      37.31
24-8      37.32
26-1      97.01
26-2      97.02
26-3      97.03
26-4      97.04
26-5      97.05
26-6      97.06
26-7      97.07
26-8      97.08
26-9      97.09
26-10     97.10
26-11     97.11
26-12     97.12
26-13     97.13
26-14     97.25
26-15     97.26
26-16     97.27
26-17     97.40
26-18     97.41
26-19     97.42
26-20     97.43
26-21     97.44
27-1      113.01
27-2      113.02
27-3      113.03
27-4      113.04
27-5      113.05
27-6      113.06
27-7      113.07
27-8      113.08
27-9      113.20
27-10     113.21
27-11     113.22
27-12     113.23
27-13     113.24
27-14     113.25
28-1      152.01
28-2      152.02
28-3      152.03
28-4      152.04
28-5      152.05
28-6      152.06
28-7      152.07
28-8      152.08
28-9      152.09
28-10     152.10
29-1      51.01
29-2      51.02
29-3      51.03
29-5      51.04
29-6      51.04
29-7      51.04
29-8      51.15
29-9      51.16
29-10     51.17
29-11     51.18
29-12     51.19
29-13     51.20
29-14     51.21
29-15     51.22
29-16     51.23
29-17     51.23
29-18     51.23
29-19     51.24
29-21     51.25
29-22     51.26
29-23     51.27
29-24     51.40
29-25     51.41
29-26     51.42
29-27     51.43
29-28     51.44
29-29     51.45
29-30     51.46
29-31     51.47
29-32     51.60
29-34     51.62
29-35     51.63
29-36     51.64
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         50.01—
                     50.05
                     94.01—
–      - -         94.09;
                     94.99
–      - -         97.03
–      - -         130.07
–      9-10-1979   150.40
–      10-1-1984   150.08
–      3-22-1988   72.31
–      10-2-1989   130.11
–      5-7-1990    96.20—
                     96.34
                     114.01—
–      1-20-1998   114.10;
                     114.25—
                     114.37
–      11-12-2001  51.28
                     32.02;
–      3-9-2009    32.05;
                     37.01
35       9-21-2011   96.45—
                     96.54
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
–      1-11-2021   50.04,
                     50.05,
                     96.04
                    
 
