WEST JEFFERSON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-8 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance passed 4-7-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina
Legislative Service, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
WEST JEFFERSON, NORTH CAROLINA
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
MAYOR         Tom Hartman
              
ALDERMAN      Calvin Green
ALDERMAN      Beth Shelton
ALDERMAN      Russell W. Barr, III
ALDERMAN      Stephen Shoemaker
ALDERMAN      John K. Reeves
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN MANAGER  Brantley Price
TOWN ATTORNEY John B. "Jak" Reeves
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
         
11.   INCORPORATION
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of West Jefferson shall
be designated as the Code of West Jefferson, North Carolina and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Mayor and Board of Aldermen, or governing body, of
the Town of West Jefferson, North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of West Jefferson, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Ashe, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of West Jefferson, in the County of Ashe, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: "Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of West Jefferson, North Carolina, is hereby amended
as follows...." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Town of West Jefferson, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding
a section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this Code of West Jefferson Town Ordinances shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty (see civil penalties below), to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued written notice of the violation which must be paid
within 30 days after a receipt of said notice. If the violator does not pay the
penalty within 30 days, the town may recover such penalty, and all subsequently
accruing penalties, in a civil action.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all ordinances may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (E)   Civil penalties. A violation of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $100; provided, that subsequent
violations within any 12-month rolling period shall subject the violator to the
following civil penalties: a second violation in any rolling 12-month period
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $200, and a
third and any subsequent violation in any rolling 12-month period shall result
in the assessment of a $500 civil penalty.
   (F)   Criminal penalties. A person committing more than two violations of
this chapter during any rolling 12-month period shall also be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500, in addition to the civil
penalties imposed.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 11: INCORPORATION
Section
   
11.01   Incorporation of town
§ 11.01 INCORPORATION OF TOWN.
   (A)   The Town of West Jefferson in the County of Ashe be and is hereby
incorporated by the name and style of "West Jefferson", and it shall have all
the provisions of law now provided for in Chapter 73 of the Revisal of 1905,
relative to cities and towns, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
   (B)   The town shall be incorporated in accordance with the plan made by the
West Jefferson Land Company, and the town limits shall extend one-half mile
north, south, east, and west of the point where the center lines of Main Street
and West Jefferson Avenue cross one another at the crossing of the streets in
the town, which shall constitute a square, by connecting cardinal points by
lines parallel to the lines parallel to the lines connecting the cardinal
points from the center of the town, as above designated.
   (C)   The officers of the town shall consist of a Mayor and five Aldermen.
   (D)   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the town shall, in addition to the
powers already granted by its charter, have all the powers enumerated, in
subchapters 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, except as hereinafter provided, of
Chapter 136 of the Laws of 1917, relative to the government of cities and
towns; provided, however, that the subchapters above adopted shall be, and are
hereby amended as follows:
      (1)   Amend subchapter five of the act, division (f), by striking out the
words "or suppress" in line one, and by striking out the word "define" in line
three;
      (2)   Amend subchapter five, division (x), by striking out the words "and
prohibit" in line one, and the word "prohibit" in division (hh);
      (3)   Strike out § 7 of subchapter six; and
      (4)   Strike out the words "prohibit and prevent" in line six of § 1 of
subchapter 10 of Chapter 136.
   (E)   Subchapter 13 of Chapter 136 of the Public Laws of 1917, with the
exception of §§ 5, 9 and 12, are hereby incorporated in and made a part of the
charter of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1915; Ord. passed 2-11-1921)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
         
31.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
Section
Planning and Zoning Board
   
30.01   Membership; terms of office
   
30.02   Removal of members
   
30.03   Organization
   
30.04   Meetings
   
30.05   Powers and duties
   
30.06   Annual report
Fire Department
   
30.20   Jurisdiction
   
30.21   Primary fire district
   
30.22   Junior Firefighter program
Local ABC Board
   
30.35   Membership; terms of office
   
30.36   Meetings
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 30.01 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall consist of five members, all of
whom shall be residents of the town.
   (B)   The members of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the town Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Each member of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be appointed for a
term of three years, and the original appointments shall be made in the
following manner:
      (1)   Two members for a term of three years;
      (2)   Two members for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One member for a term of one year each.
   (D)   At the expiration of the terms of all members first appointed, all new
or re-appointed members shall be for a full term of three years. Vacancies
occurring otherwise shall be for the unexpired term and shall be made by the
Mayor with the approval of the town Board of Aldermen.
   (E)   The members of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be persons of
recognized experience and qualifications. All members of the Planning and
Zoning Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1978)
§ 30.02 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Members may, after public hearing, be removed from the Planning and
Zoning Board by the Mayor for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in
office.
   (B)   The membership of any member who is absent from four consecutive
meetings, or whose percent of attendance over any period of 12 consecutive
months is less than 60%, shall automatically be terminated, unless the absence
is excused by the full Planning and Zoning Board for good and sufficient cause.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1978)
§ 30.03 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, Secretary, and other officials as may be necessary from among its
members to serve for a period of one year, with eligibility for re-election.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a meeting for the election of
officers at the first meeting in June of each year.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1978)
§ 30.04 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall keep a
record of its members' attendance, and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings, and recommendations, which shall be a public record. The Board shall
hold at least one quarterly meeting, and all of its meetings shall be open to
the public. There shall be a quorum of three members for the purpose of taking
any official action required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1978; Ord. passed 8-5-2004)
§ 30.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning and Zoning Board to
make comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable
future developments, and prepare plans for physical, social, and economic
growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, or
the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the development of
the town.
   (B)   In general, the Planning and Zoning Board shall have the power and
duty to:
      (1)   Acquire and maintain in current form basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   Prepare and, from time to time, amend and revise a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
      (3)   Establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   Prepare and recommend to the Town Board ordinances promoting
orderly development in accordance with the comprehensive plan;
      (5)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area; and
      (6)   Keep the Town Board and the general public informed and advised as
to these matters.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1978)
§ 30.06 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall, annually, submit to the Town
Board a written report of its activities, an analysis of the expenditures to
date for the current fiscal year, and its requested budget of funds needed for
operation during the ensuing fiscal year.
   (B)   The Board is authorized to receive contributions from private agencies
and organizations or from individuals, in addition to any sums which may be
appropriated for its use by the Town Board. It may accept and disburse the
contributions for special purposes or projects, subject to any specific
conditions which it deems acceptable, whether or not the projects are included
in the approved budget.
   (C)   The Board is authorized to appoint committees and employees, and to
authorize expenditures, as it may see fit, subject to limitations of funds
provided for the Planning and Zoning Board by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1978)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.20 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Fire Department is authorized to furnish protection against fire
to residents and property owners within a ten-mile radius of the corporate
limits of the town under and upon the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   The town, through its authorised agents, may contract to furnish
fire protection for any residence and its outbuildings situated within the
aforesaid area for an annual fee of $3, plus an additional fee of $20 for any
trip made to the premises to extinguish a fire. The town may agree to furnish
fire protection for any business building within the area for an annual fee of
$5, plus an additional fee of $20 for any trip made to the premises to
extinguish a fire.
      (2)   The Fire Department is authorized to send on any rural call a jeep
fire truck, and not less than four firefighters, provided, however, that in no
event shall the town, or its Fire Department, be obligated to send any of its
fire-fighting equipment outside its corporate limits if the same is needed or
already in use within its corporate limits or already in use elsewhere.
   (B)   It shall be specifically provided in the aforesaid contracts that the
equipment of the Fire Department is maintained primarily for the use and
protection of the residents and property owners of the town, and in the event
any of its equipment should be on a rural call and a call should be received to
extinguish a fire within the corporate limits of the town, then in that event,
the equipment may be forthwith returned to the town.
   (C)   The Fire Department may answer a call to extinguish any rural fire
whether it occurs upon the premises of one who has a contract for fire
protection or not, provided, however, if the owner of the property whereon the
fire occurs has no contract with the town for fire protection, the fee for the
service shall be $50 for each call.
   (D)   The Fire Department is authorized to employ its equipment to
extinguish any fire which occurs in any school, church, or publicly owned
building, whether within or without the corporate limits of the town, without
fee or charge.
(Ord. passed 8-8-1957)
§ 30.21 PRIMARY FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the G.S. § 160A-435, the Board
of Aldermen for the town does hereby ordain and enact in to law this section
establishing primary fire district.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the Primary Fire District shall be
described as follows:
      (1)   Primary Fire District. The Primary Fire District's boundaries start
at the intersection of the centerline at South Jefferson Avenue and Ashe Street
and extend northerly up North and South Jefferson Avenue to the intersection of
the centerline at North Jefferson Avenue and 2nd Street. Also, including the
former Thomasville Furniture properties that are outlined in black.
      (2)     All the pro perties that are outl ined in blac k on the attache d
map com pose the Primar y Fire Dist rict bou ndaries.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d7d03418685f3c6a63b536c2a48436736a4fdc92/
IMAGES/0-0-0-702.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 10-1-2012)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-435 was repealed by S.L. 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by S.L.
2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and S.L. 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19,
2020.
§ 30.22 JUNIOR FIREFIGHTER PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   Junior Firefighters must be 16 years of age, with the exception
of 14 and 15 year olds who must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian
who is a member of the West Jefferson Fire Department.
      (2)   Junior Firefighters will be under an evaluation every six months.
   (B)   Junior Firefighters shall not be permitted to enter a structure fire
or be in an immediate hazardous area during an incident.
   (C)   Junior Firefighters shall not be permitted to drive any fire or rescue
apparatus for any reason at any time.
   (D)   Junior Firefighters can respond to emergency calls, but are not
permitted to respond to emergency traffic or display audio or visual warning
devices. All North Carolina laws governing the use of motor vehicles on state
highways must be obeyed, including all posted limits, stop signs and traffic
signals. Any charge of reckless driving or speeding shall be cause for
disciplinary action by the officer team or termination from the program.
   (E)   Junior Firefighters must be enrolled in a high school program or have
graduated with a high school diploma or GED.
   (F)   Junior Firefighters must maintain a grade average of “C” in all
subjects in school while enrolled in this program. The assigned duty officer
will review report cards. If any subject falls below the required “C” average,
the Junior Firefighter is on probation.
      (1)   Weekly reports from the teacher are required until the grade is
returned to the minimum required level, at which point the next issued report
card is reviewed.
      (2)   The Junior Firefighter may reenter the program at the discretion of
the assigned duty officer and/or a vote by the officer team.
      (3)   Two semesters of failing grades will result in termination from the
Department until the following year, at which time the candidate can reapply.
   (G)   Junior Firelighters shall not be permitted to leave school for any
fire or rescue call during normal school hours.
   (H)   Junior Firefighters shall not be permitted at the station after 10:00
p.m. on school nights, or after 12:00 a.m. on non-school nights.
   (I)   Junior Firefighters shall obey all SOGs (Standard Operating
Guidelines), rules and regulations and bylaws that govern the West Jefferson
Volunteer Fire Department.
   (J)   Junior Firefighters must obey the junior member standard set forth by
the North Carolina Department of Insurance,
   (K)   When a Junior Firefighter reaches the age of 18 and has completed all
required training, the officer team may recommend the Junior Firefighter for
active membership, and then be voted on by the members of the Department.
   (L)   Any drug, alcohol or other controlled substance use shall not be
tolerated. Any Junior Firefighter involved with any of the above offenses will
be terminated from the program and ineligible for regular membership. Any
conduct determined to be inappropriate for a Junior Firefighter shall be a
basis for disciplinary action by the officer team and/or termination from the
program.
   (M)   No loitering at the Fire Department facilities outside regular
training, meetings or calls.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
LOCAL ABC BOARD
§ 30.35 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 18B-700, the West Jefferson Board of Aldermen is
the appointing authority for the West Jefferson Local ABC Board.
   (B)   The Local ABC Board is comprised of a three-member board with
staggered terms.
   (C)   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint one member of the Local ABC Board
as the chairman.
   (D)   The Board of Aldermen as the appointing authority has deemed that the
qualifications for membership on the Local ABC Board is as follows:
      (1)   Term limits of three years, with reappointment limited to three
consecutive terms;
      (2)   Interest in public affairs;
      (3)   Good judgment;
      (4)   Knowledge;
      (5)   Ability; and
      (6)   Good moral character.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2024)
§ 30.36 MEETINGS.
   The ABC Board meets on the first Wednesday of each month at 5:00 pm.
Meetings are normally held at the ABC Store located at 404 S Jefferson Avenue,
West Jefferson, NC 28694. Additional information concerning the ABC Store and
the ABC Board can be located at www.abc.nc.gov.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2024)
CHAPTER 31: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Smoking in town-owned buildings prohibited
§ 31.01 SMOKING IN TOWN-OWNED BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   Smoking in all town-owned buildings is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   GARBAGE
         
52.   SEWER USAGE
         
53.   SEWER CONNECTIONS
         
54.   WATER
         
55.   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES
         
56.   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Water and sewer connection fees
   
50.02   Water and sewer usage rate schedule
   
50.03   Water and sewer adjustment policy
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall adopt a rate schedule for water and sewer
connection fees, which it shall amend from time to time as necessary. All
customers shall be charged for water and sewer connection fees based on the
rate schedule in effect at the time. The schedule for current water and sewer
connection fees is set out in §
50.01(B) and (C).
   (B)   Water connection fees inside the town limits shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size        Connection/Tap Fee
.75 inch          $1,600
1 inch            $2,000
2 inch and larger Cost, plus labor, plus 10%
 
   (C)   Sewer connection fees inside the town limits shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size        Tap Fee
4 inch            $1,625
6 inch and larger Cost, plus labor, plus 10%
 
   (D)   Customers shall pay all tap fees before connections are made. If the
town has to cut the road and/or the sidewalk, additional costs will apply.
   (E)   Owners of property requesting water and/or sewer service located
outside town limits shall provide a petition for voluntary annexation. The
Board of Aldermen shall then have the option of annexing the property seeking
water and sewer services. If water and/or sewer service is needed before the
town annexes the subject property, the town shall charge 200% of the fees for
inside town limit connection/rates fees with prior approval by the Town
Manager.
   (F)   When a water connection is requested for a sprinkler system, a two-
inch water meter assembly shall be provided. Tap fees shall be paid in full
before the connection is made. Deposits, sewer connection fees, and monthly
service bills may not apply. The connection shall include a double check valve
as the back flow prevention device. The back flow prevention device shall be
installed next to the water meter assembly and shall be billed in addition to
the tap fee. Should the town discover that water is being pulled through the
connection for purposes other than fire suppression, then the town shall
determine the use of the water, and may require that water usage and wastewater
discharge fees be paid.
   (G)   The town shall provide meter boxes for water connections up to two
inches in size as part of the tap fees. Meter vaults for water connection
assemblies between four inches and six inches in size shall be the
responsibility of the customer to provide. The town may then install the meter
assembly inside the vault after connection fees are paid to the town. Meter
vaults shall be located as close to the municipal water line as possible, and
shall not be located within any privately-owned structure.
   (H)   Customers requesting water and sewer services shall pay, at the town
office, a utility service deposit fee in the amount set forth by the Board of
Aldermen, which it can amend from time to time as necessary. The current
utility deposit fee is available in the Utilities Office. The customer shall
provide a deposit before water and/or sewer service is provided. If the
customer remains at the same location for a period of two years with reliable
payment history, the deposit will be applied to their utility account in the
form of a credit, upon request by the customer. In the event the customer
wishes to discontinue his or her water and sewer services prior to two years of
account history, and he or she has paid the final bill for these utility
services, the deposit may be refunded to the customer or be used to pay for the
final bill.
   (I)   Any account disconnected for non-payment shall be subject to a $50
reconnect fee in addition to the balance of any disconnected account being paid
in full.
   (J)   Should a customer, or any person not associated with the town, tamper
with a water meter in any way, a fee of $100 shall be charged to the account.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2005; Ord. passed 1-9-2012; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-14-
2015; Ord. passed 12-5-2016; Ord. passed 7-11-2022)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER USAGE RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All active service accounts shall be billed at least a monthly minimum
charge, as specified in the rate schedule currently in effect and approved by
the Board of Aldermen. The current rate schedule can be found in §
50.02(B) and (C) and in the utilities office. The rate schedule is subject to
change at any time.
   (B)   Residential water and sewer rates shall be as follows:
      (1)   Inside water.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $13.70; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $7.40.
      (2)   Outside water.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $27.40; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $14.79.
      (3)   Inside sewer.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $13.65; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $6.76.
      (4)   Outside sewer.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $27.30; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $13.51.
   (C)   Commercial water and sewer rates shall be as follows:
      (1)   Inside water.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $16.48; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $8.91.
      (2)   Outside water.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $32.96; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $17.82.
      (3)   Inside sewer.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $16.38; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $8.14.
      (4)   Outside sewer.
         (a)   Zero to 1,000: $32.75; and
         (b)   Over 1,000: $16.27.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 7-11-2022)
§ 50.03 WATER AND SEWER ADJUSTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Customers are responsible for water and/or sewer line maintenance and
repairs from the water and/or sewer connection to the structure. Water and
sewer bill adjustments will only be made when absolutely necessary. An
adjustment may be made upon showing of a good cause for such adjustment by the
property owner, or by other entity responsible for the bill. Adjustments may be
made for incorrect meter readings, or water leaks that are a result of breaks
in water lines. Adjustments will not be made for faulty plumbing fixtures.
   (B)   Repair bills must be presented when a customer requests an adjustment.
Adjustments will not be made for more than two consecutive billing periods, and
will only be allowed once within a 12-month period. If a monthly adjustment is
made, it shall be based on an average of the three prior billing periods.
   (C)   Adjustments will not be made for more than two consecutive billing
periods, and will only be allowed once within a 12-month period. If a monthly
adjustment is made, it shall be based on an average of the three prior billing
periods. The Town Manager shall be responsible for approving all bill
adjustment requests.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Residential and commercial garbage pickup
§ 51.01 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL GARBAGE PICKUP.
   (A)   The town provides weekly residential garbage pickup for all households
within the municipal limits of the town. This garbage fee shall be included
within the yearly municipal taxes billed to each property owner and made
payable to the town.
   (B)   The town will provide weekly commercial garbage pickup for all
commercial locations, provided appropriate fees are paid to the town, based on
the average amount of garbage picked up weekly. Charges for commercial garbage
pickup are based in accordance with the town's published commercial garbage
rate schedule. The current commercial garbage rate schedule is available in the
Utilities Office.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions and abbreviations
Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.016   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.017   Local discharge limits
   
52.018   State requirements
   
52.019   Reservation of right to establish requirements
   
52.020   Dilution as treatment substitute prohibited
   
52.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.022   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control
   
52.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
52.035   Purpose
   
52.036   User charges
   
52.037   Surcharges
   
52.038   Administration charges
Permit Application and Issuance
   
52.050   Unlawful to discharge wastewater without permission
   
52.051   Significant industrial user determination
   
52.052   Significant industrial user permit application
   
52.053   Application signatories and certification
   
52.054   Application review and determination
   
52.055   Tentative determination; draft permit
   
52.056   Permit supporting documentation
   
52.057   Final action on application
   
52.058   Hearings; judicial review
   
52.059   Permit modification
   
52.060   Permit conditions
   
52.061   Permit duration
   
52.062   Permit transfer
   
52.063   Permit reissuance
Reporting Requirements
   
52.075   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.076   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.077   Deadline for categorical compliance reports
   
52.078   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.079   Changed condition reports
   
52.080   Reports of potential problems
   
52.081   Unpermitted user reports
   
52.082   Repeat sampling; notice of violation
   
52.083   Notification of hazardous waste discharge
   
52.084   Analytical requirements
   
52.085   Sample collection
   
52.086   Timing of reports
   
52.087   Record keeping; electronic reporting
   
52.088   Information to remain confidential
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.100   Monitoring facilities
   
52.101   Inspection and sampling
   
52.102   Search warrants
   
52.103   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
Affirmative Defenses
   
52.115   Upset
   
52.116   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.117   Bypass
Administrative Enforcement
   
52.130   Notification of violation
   
52.131   Show cause hearing
   
52.132   Consent order; administrative order
   
52.133   Emergency suspension of permit or permission
   
52.134   Termination of permit or permission
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town,
hereafter referred to as the town, and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., and the General Pretreatment Regulations, 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   Promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   Protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment, as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance, and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   Ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the POTW and pretreatment program hereafter
referred to as the POTW Director. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW
Director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be
delegated by the POTW Director to other town personnel. By discharging
wastewater into the municipal wastewater system, industrial users located
outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms and conditions
established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement actions, or
orders issued hereunder. Users subject to this chapter are also subject to
Receiving POTW Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
state Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, the authorized
representative is:
            1.   President, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation
in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility, including
having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations, can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements, and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an authorized representative is a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a), (b) and (c) above
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20ºC, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, 33
U.S.C. § 1317, into the POTW, including holding tank waste discharged into the
system.
      INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection system,
treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which
causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the Control
Authority’s NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit or prevents
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and
federal statutes, regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act,
33 U.S.C. § 1345 or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and
Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria including those
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of
SWDA applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body pans, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. parts
405 through 471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342, or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.  
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances.
These prohibitions appear in §
52.015 and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act, which will be applicable to the source if the standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (a)(2) or (3) above, but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the Control Authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from
the Control Authority) NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit, or a
downstream water quality standard even if not included in the permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste, as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD, toxicity, and
odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The town administrator designated with the responsibility
for the pretreatment program and enforcement of this chapter.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, or local limit which applied to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1292, which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. Any industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving
the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R.
part 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. parts 405 through 471;
         (d)   Is found by the town, the Division of Water Quality or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), to have the potential for impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industrial users, on the
wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements.
         (e)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(v)(2) and
thus is a non-significant categorical industrial user.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. A status of noncompliance, as follows.
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(l);
         (b)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC = 1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and
pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the Control Authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to be the environment or has
resulted in either the Control Authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
control authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. part
403.8(f)(1)(vi)(B) and §
52.133 to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
compliance reports within 30 days from the due date; and
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause INTERFERENCE or PASS-THROUGH, or in
any other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits, or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Spills and other accidental discharges;
         (b)   Discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature;
         (c)   A non-customary batch discharge; or
         (d)   Any other discharges that can cause a violation of the
prohibited discharge standards in §
52.015.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
52.051 through
52.063.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural, and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
Abbreviation Designated meanings
Abbreviation Designated meanings
BOD          Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CFR          Code of Federal Regulations
COD          Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA          Environmental Protection Agency
gpd          Gallons per day
l            Liter
mg           Milligrams
mg/l         Milligrams per liter
G.S.         General Statutes
NPDES        National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
O and M      Operation and Maintenance
POTW         Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA         Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC          Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA         Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS          Total Suspended Solids
TKN          Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
U.S.C.       United States Code
 
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute, or cause to be contributed, into the POTW,
directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which causes interference
or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW,
whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or subject to any
national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   No user shall contribute, or cause to be contributed, into the POTW
the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, or more than 10.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
52.023;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, de-
ionized water, non-contact cooling water, and unpolluted industrial wastewater,
unless specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l unless authorized by the POTW Director;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer, except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and/or
      (23)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system, or at any point in the
system, be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in a manner so that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user's
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in amounts which may cause or
contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW Director
shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §§
52.130 through
52.134; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
52.050 through
52.063 for the user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.016 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. parts 405 through 471
and incorporated herein.
   (B)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (D)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (E)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
   (F)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.017 LOCAL DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
BOD      250 mg/l
TSS      250 mg/l
NH 3     25 mg/l
Arsenic  0.003 mg/l
Cadmium  0.003 mg/l
Chromium 0.05 mg/l (total chromium)
Copper   0.061 mg/l
Cyanide  0.015 mg/l
Lead     0.049 mg/l
Mercury  0.0003 mg/l
Nickel   0.021 mg/l
Silver   0.005 mg/l
Zinc     0.175 mg/l
 
   (B)   Industrial Waste Survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW's maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass-based
limits in addition to, or in place of concentration-based limits.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.019 RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO ESTABLISH REQUIREMENTS.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
52.015, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.020 DILUTION AS TREATMENT SUBSTITUTE PROHIBITED.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §§
52.051 through
52.063, and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
52.015 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the POTW
Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the POTW Director
before construction of the facility. The review of the plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand, except that
the interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. The
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at his, her or their expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the POTW Director shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs a plan or other action to
control and prevent slug discharges and accidental discharges as defined in §
52.002. All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an SIU.
The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement a plan. Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop a plan for any
user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.080; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. The procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling, and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Reports, see §§
52.079 and
52.080
§ 52.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at times as are established by the POTW
Director. The waste shall not violate §§
52.015 through
52.023 or any other requirements established by the town. The POTW Director may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
FEES
§ 52.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the implementation
of the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW Director and
approved by the Town Board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made
available from the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.036 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited
to, persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge,
cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (B)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the POTW.
   (C)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation, and maintenance of the POTW,
and will make recommendations to the Council or Board serving the town for
adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (E)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.037 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and
the character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater.
      (1)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
         (a)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town; or
         (b)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. The devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the users
expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
      (2)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.038 ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 52.050 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE WASTEWATER WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town. When requested by the POTW
Director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The POTW Director is authorized
to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.051 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER DETERMINATION.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial
user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing
industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant
industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180
days of receiving notification of the POTW Director's determination. Industrial
users who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may, at the
discretion of the POTW Director, be required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit for non-significant industrial users.
   (B)   All persons proposing to discharge non-domestic wastewater, or
proposing to change the volume or characteristics of an existing discharge of
non-domestic wastewater, shall request from the POTW Director a significant
industrial user determination. If the POTW Director determines or suspects that
the proposed discharge fits the significant industrial user criteria, he or she
will require that a significant industrial user permit application be filed.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a significant industrial user permit shall
complete and file with the town an application in the form prescribed by the
POTW Director, and accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed
in the schedule of charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply
for a significant industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of
the POTW Director’s determination in §
52.051(B) above. The application shall include at a minimum:
   (B)   (1)   Name of industrial user;
      (2)   Address of industrial user;
      (3)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
      (4)   Wastewater flow;
      (5)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in the
discharge;
      (6)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
      (7)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
      (8)   Locations of discharge points;
      (9)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
      (10)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
      (11)   Number of employees;
      (12)   Operation and production schedules; and
      (13)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities in
accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g).
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.053 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by the current authorized representative of the user on file with the Control
Authority and/or town as defined in §
52.002 and contain the following certification statement:
   "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.054 APPLICATION REVIEW AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The POTW Director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information.
   (B)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the town
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
   (C)   Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application, or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.055 TENTATIVE DETERMINATION; DRAFT PERMIT.
   (A)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
   (B)   If the staff's tentative determination in division (A) above is to
issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
      (1)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to be
limited;
      (2)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
      (3)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions which
will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the application.
   (C)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to divisions
(A) and (B) above and the general permit conditions of the town into a
significant industrial user permit.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.056 PERMIT SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   The Control Authority staff shall prepare the following documents for all
significant industrial user permits.
   (A)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
   (B)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations, including
the following:
      (1)   Documentation of categorical determination, including documentation
of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment standards; and
      (2)   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 C.F.R. part 403.12(e)(2).
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.057 FINAL ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
   (B)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
      (1)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing the
conditions as necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S. §
143-215.1;
      (2)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
      (3)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60-days' notice and pursuant
to §
52.059;
      (4)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §§
52.130 through
52.134;
      (5)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §§
52.130 through
52.134; and
      (6)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW Director
such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference of the
wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes of
G.S. § 143-215.1.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.058 HEARINGS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Hearings.  An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject
to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permitee/user assessed a civil
penalty under §
52.999 shall have the right to a hearing or hearings(s) upon making written
demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director
within 30 days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit,
civil penalty assessment, or administrative order. The hearing shall be before
the Town Manager. Unless the written demand is made within the time specified
herein, the action shall be final and binding and further appeal is barred. For
modified permits, only those parts of the permit being modified may be
adjudicated. The term and conditions of a permit under review shall be as
follows:
      (1)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the general
courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Reserved permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (3)   Terminated permits.  Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect until
either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution.
   (B)   Judicial review.  Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the Council or Board serving the town is entered, may seek judicial review of
the order or decision by filing a written request for review by the Superior
Court of Ashe County.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.059 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance:
      (1)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change in
the permit is indicated;
      (2)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess of
four months; and
      (3)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
   (B)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to the
standards shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within the
time frame prescribed by the standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by §
52.052, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days
after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard.
   (C)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.060 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with the
conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose of
this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A statement of duration, in no case more than five years;
      (2)   A statement of non-transferability;
      (3)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or local
limits or both;
      (4)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an accidental
discharge or slug load as defined in §
52.002;
      (6)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for prevention
of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
52.002, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user;
      (7)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
52.002; and
      (8)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
   (B)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily, and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
      (9)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
      (10)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or special
notification reports;
      (11)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in § 52.087 and affording the
POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access thereto;
      (12)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
      (13)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permitted;
      (14)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
      (15)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Reports, see §§
52.079 and
52.080
§ 52.061 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.062 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for a specific operation. A
wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a
new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed operation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.063 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A significant industrial user shall apply for permit reissuance by
submitting a complete permit application in accordance with §§
52.052 and
52.053 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.075 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information.  The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits.  A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations.  A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement.  Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
52.084.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
52.085 and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
       (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
52.002 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O and M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O and M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide the additional pretreatment and/or O and M. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in § 52.076; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.053.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.076 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.075:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards. Events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation;
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between the progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.077 DEADLINE FOR CATEGORICAL COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW Director a
report containing the information described in §
52.075. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.053.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.078 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of
requiring the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (B)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency
determined by the POTW Director but in no case less than once every six months,
submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows
for the reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance
with procedures set out in section §§
52.084 and
52.085. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
52.055.
      (2)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this subchapter
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§
52.084 and
52.085, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.079 CHANGED CONDITION REPORTS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant
changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. The
permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the
Control Authority and/or municipality.
   (B)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §§
52.050 through
52.063.
   (C)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §§
52.050 through
52.063 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
52.059 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 25% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants (increases or decreased to
production, increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants, discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the Control Authority and/or
municipality, new or changed product lines, new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals, or new or changed customers).
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Other reporting requirements, see §
52.080
§ 52.080 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
52.002, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration, and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following the discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property, nor shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in §
52.002.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.081 UNPERMITTED USER REPORTS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require. All
users classified a non-significant categorical industrial users under § 52.002
shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may
require. At a minimum, this shall include the annual certification of
continuing to meet the non-significant categorical industrial user criteria as
required under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q).
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.082 REPEAT SAMPLING; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user's facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user's initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu
of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation,
the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month;
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between the initial sampling and
when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and submit
the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.083 NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   The town prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval by the POTW Director.
      (2)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing. of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. The notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge, continuous, batch, or other. If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of the waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent the
information is known and readily available to the user:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of the constituents
in the wastestream discharge during the calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of constituents in
the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      (3)   All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the town. Any notification under this division need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under §
52.079. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.075,
52.077, and
52.078.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specific in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than the quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA, being 42
U.S.C. § 6921, identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or
listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
POTW Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of the substance within 90
days of the effective date of the regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This section does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.084 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA and the town. Analyses must be performed by a
state certified lab for each paramter analyzed, if the certification exists for
that parameter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.085 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90-day
compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis
as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   All wastewater composite samples shall be collected with a minimum of
hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a discharge. All
wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow proportional
composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When authorizing time-
proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.086 TIMING OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.087 RECORD KEEPING; ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of the requirements.
Records shall include:
      (1)   The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name
of the person(s) taking the samples;
      (2)   The dates analyses were performed;
      (3)   Who performed the analyses;
      (4)   The analytical techniques or methods used; and
      (5)   The results of the analyses.
   (B)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.088 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of the information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user. Any request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that the portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.100 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user's own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
town may, when a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.101 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, approval authority, and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The town, approval
authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
devices as necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring
and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which
would require proper identification and clearance before entry into his, her or
their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security
guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the
town, Approval Authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay,
for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the
town’s, approval authority’s, or EPA’s access to the user’s premises shall be a
violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.102 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the town, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the town, approval
authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court having
jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.103 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance, in 15A NCAC 2H.0903(b)(34), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES
§ 52.115 UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) below are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
worker-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.116 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
52.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
52.015(B) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that
its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.117 BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the bypass and its cause;
         (b)   The duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and
         (c)   Steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
      (3)   The POTW Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case
basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (B) of
this section.
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.130 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the POTW Director finds that any industrial user has violated or is
violating this chapter, wastewater permit, or any prohibition, limitation, or
requirements contained therein, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW
Director may serve upon the person a written notice stating the nature of the
violation. Within 30 days from the date of the notice, an explanation for the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted
to the town by the user. Submission of the plan does not relieve the discharger
of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice
of violation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.131 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for the action, and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the hearing
and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
   (C)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to the
assessment of a civil penalty under §
52.999, nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
52.052.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.132 CONSENT ORDER; ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER.
   (A)   The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance. The orders will
include specific action to be taken by the discharger to correct the
noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order. Consent orders
shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order issued pursuant
to division (B) below.
   (B)   When the POTW Director finds that an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate this chapter, permits, or orders issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may issue an order to cease
and desist all violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to do any
of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and/or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.133 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF PERMIT OR PERMISSION.
   (A)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
wastewater permit when the suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.134 TERMINATION OF PERMIT OR PERMISSION.
   (A)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to discharge,
conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
52.131 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision
of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued
hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per day per
violation. Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or
the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program; and
         (h)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (3)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in § 52.058.
   (B)   Other available remedies.
      (1)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this
chapter, are available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or
combination against a noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include,
but are not limited to;
      (2)   Criminal violations.  The District Attorney for the applicable
judicial district may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users
who violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. [Note: Under North Carolina
law, it is a crime to negligently violate any term, condition, or requirement
of a pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment
permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and
willfully violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit,
or knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S.
§ 143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify information required under Article 21 of
Chapter 143 of the General Statutes (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).]
      (3)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question.
      (4)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
      (5)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the town governing nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying the nuisance.
   (C)   The remedies provided for in this section are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2007; Ord. passed 2-4-2013)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER CONNECTION
Section
Private Waste Disposal
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Use of public sewer system required
   
53.03   Septic tank usage prohibited; exceptions
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.15   Unlawful to uncover or connect to public sewer without prior approval
   
53.16   Classes of sewer permits
   
53.17   Costs and expenses borne by owner
   
53.18   Separate sewers required; exception; when old sewers permitted
   
53.19   Sewer pipe specifications
   
53.20   Installation of sewer
   
53.21   Notification prior to building sewer connection to public sewer;
plumber's license required
   
53.22   Connection to public sewer
   
53.23   Guarding of excavation
 
   
53.99   Penalty
PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. Biochemical Oxygen Demand, the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager or Town Clerk of the town or his or her authorized
deputy, agent, or representative.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with ground,
surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.03 SEPTIC TANK USAGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the town, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is
within 100 feet of the property line.
   (C)   The town Board of Aldermen may, by majority vote at a regular meeting,
waive the above requirement. The requirement shall only be waived after the
property owner shall make application on a form furnished by the town, at least
ten days prior to the regular Board meeting. No application shall be considered
by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen without compliance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The lot area shall contain a minimum of 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   The private disposal system shall comply with all applicable state
and county laws and regulations;
      (3)   A visual inspection of the site shows no evidence of a past or
present health menace or nuisance; and
      (4)   The Town Board reserves the right to revoke any waiver so granted
at any time and to require the property owner to comply with this chapter as
though no waiver had ever been granted.
   (D)   (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under
the provisions of division (B) above, the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this
division.
      (2)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Manager.
The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Manager. A permit and inspection fee
of $5 shall be paid to the Manager, provided that no permit shall be required
until public sewers are constructed and operating in the general area of
construction.
      (3)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Manager. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Manager when
the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Manager.
      (4)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than 10, 000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall
be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
      (5)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in division (B) above,
a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
chapter, and ally septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
      (6)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
      (7)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
   (E)   All owners of residences and businesses within the town, which are
presently connected to a private septic tank, shall have the right to continue
to use the same and perform normal pumping operations to the same as needed. No
existing septic tank or septic tank system, including any drain or field line,
may be altered, expanded, or repaired once it has become defective, or
dangerous to the public health and welfare of the citizens of the town, if a
sewer line is located within 200 feet of the business or residence.
   (F)   All owners of residences and businesses within the town who desire to
continue to use existing wells and subscribe to the town sewer system shall be
required to meter the wells in order to determine and pay the fee for the
amount of water being deposited in the town Wastewater Treatment Facility.
These meters shall be installed in an easily accessible location for meter
reading purposes.
   (G)   If any septic tank or septic tank system, existing within the town at
the date of the passage of this provision, should hereafter become defective,
the same may not be replaced with a new septic tank or septic tank system, if a
sewer line is located within 200 feet of the subject premises.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965; Ord. passed 4-7-1983)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.15 UNLAWFUL TO UNCOVER OR CONNECT TO PUBLIC SEWER WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Manager.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 CLASSES OF SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permit:
      (1)   Residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Manager. Before connection is made to the
public sewer, a connection fee of $50 shall be paid into the town treasury. An
inspection fee of $5 shall be paid to the Manager at the time the application
is filed.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.17 COSTS AND EXPENSES BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.18 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION; WHEN OLD SEWERS PERMITTED.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Manager, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.19 SEWER PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be vitrified clay sewer pipe with rubber seal
joints or cast iron soil pipe with rubber seal joints. Joints shall be tight
and water-proof.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the engineer, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The slope of four-inch pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch per
foot.
   (C)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
Material for factory applied joints on vitrified clay pipe shall be the latest
approved standard, as manufactured by the pipe manufacturer or approved equal.
When jointing vitrified clay pipe, the joint surfaces shall be wiped free of
dust, dirt, gravel, or other foreign materials, both before and after the
application of the lubricant sealer. The vitrified clay pipe with the factory
applied coupling shall be connected by first brushing upon the mating surfaces
the proper lubricant sealer as recommended by the pipe supplier. The spigot end
shall then be centered on grade into the bell end of the last downstream clay
pipe length and shoved home and properly seated with the application of a
moderate force by a pry or lever device. The pipes shall be joined no later
than five minutes after the application of the lubricant sealer. Other jointing
materials and methods may be used only by approval of the Manager.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.20 INSTALLATION OF SEWER.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alighnment
insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly
curved pipe and fittings.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be
lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Manager. Pipe laying
and backfill shall be performed in a manner to be approved by the Manager.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.21 NOTIFICATION PRIOR TO BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER;
PLUMBER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Manager
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Manager or his
or her representative.
   (B)   All persons installing sewer service connections for hire in the town
shall, before cutting any street, sidewalk, or public property, and before
connecting any service line to the public sewer, obtain from the town a
plumber's license, the fee for which shall be $7.50 per annum. Plumbers shall
furnish to the town good and sufficient bond to save the town harmless from
liability arising from any excavation, cut-in, or other work performed along or
across any public right-of-way before a license is issued. The bond shall be in
the form approved by the Town Attorney in the amount of $5,000.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.22 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the Y branch, if the branch is available at a suitable location. If the public
sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located Y branch is
available, the town shall, at the expense of the owner, install a Y branch in
the public sewer at the location specified by the Manager. Where the public
sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located Y branch
is available, the town shall, at the expense of the owner, cut a neat hole into
the public sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about
45 degrees, and install a 45-degree ell with the spigot end cut so as not to
extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building
sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation
than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and
the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the Manager.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.23 GUARDING OF EXCAVATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1965)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 54: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Monthly meter reading; fee due and payable to the utilities office
   
54.002   Meters to be installed outside
   
54.003   Well customers permitted to continue use; prohibition against new
wells
   
54.004   Unlawful use of sprinkler system, hydrants
   
54.005   Application required
   
54.006   Private water supply regulated
   
54.007   Use of town water
   
54.008   Tampering with water equipment
   
54.009   Work on system to comply with town requirements
   
54.010   Rate schedule for water usage
   
54.011   Owners of more than one house
   
54.012   Billing procedures and account information
   
54.013   Meter fees
   
54.014   Services; connections
Water Shortage Response
   
54.030   Purpose
   
54.031   Authorization
   
54.032   Notification
   
54.033   Levels of response
   
54.034   Triggers
   
54.035   Enforcement
   
54.036   Public comment
   
54.037   Variance protocols
   
54.038   Effectiveness
   
54.039   Revision
Enforcement Procedures
   
54.055   Injunctive relief
   
54.056   Suspension of service
   
54.057   Disconnection of meter
   
54.058   Refusal of service
   
54.059   Hearing procedure
 
   
54.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Conservation Measures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 MONTHLY METER READING; FEE DUE AND PAYABLE TO THE UTILITIES OFFICE.
   (A)   Water meter readings and water charges shall be made on a monthly
basis, the readings to be made on or around the twentieth day of every month or
as practical. Meters will be read, weather and other considerations permitting,
and bills shall be rendered monthly. The town reserves the right to vary the
dates or length of the period between meter readings and covered in the
customer’s bill. The fee for the water shown to have been consumed in the
preceding month to be due and payable on or before the fifteenth day of the
month of billing. If the fifteenth day falls on a weekend or holiday, bills
will be past due and delinquent if not paid in full by the end of the next
business day.
   (B)   Fees and charges pursuant to this chapter shall be payable to the
utilities office on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the
billing.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1982; Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.002 METERS TO BE INSTALLED OUTSIDE.
   All water meters shall be installed on the outside of premises being served
with water, and on an easement duly conveyed to the town.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1982)
§ 54.003 WELL CUSTOMERS PERMITTED TO CONTINUE USE; PROHIBITION AGAINST NEW
WELLS.
   All owners of residences and businesses within the town, which are presently
obtaining water from private wells, shall have the right to continue to use the
well and to perform general maintenance on the well, provided, however, that no
new wells shall be drilled, nor shall an existing well be redrilled.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1982)
§ 54.004 UNLAWFUL USE OF SPRINKLER SYSTEM, HYDRANTS.
   No use shall be made of sprinkler systems, fire hydrants, or similar
equipment located within the town, for any purpose other than for firefighting
or fire prevention. A violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of
$250 for all sprinkler system related violations, and by a fine of $50 for all
fire hydrant or related equipment violations. All fines imposed shall be added
to the subscriber's water and sewer bill.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1982)
§ 54.005 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect with the water system of the
town, until they shall have made application for such connection in writing to
the town and paid the required deposit. The application shall include a
description of the location of the lot or parcel, along with any street
address, the name of the person, firm or corporation making the application,
the name of the owner, mailing address of the owner, service address of the
account, date of application, and any other information that may be required by
the town in processing the application. It should be noted that owners of a
property located outside the town limits requesting water service shall first
provide a petition for voluntary annexation (see §
50.01(E))
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.006 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to furnish, supply,
or provide, for gain or profit, any water from a private well, reservoir or
pumps in or to any property within the corporate limits. Where no public water
is available, private wells shall be permitted to serve the property on which
it is located.
§ 54.007 USE OF TOWN WATER.
   (A)   No customer will be allowed to supply or sell water to other persons,
families or corporations, nor shall any person take or carry away water from
any hydrant.
   (B)   The fire hydrants are for the use of the Fire Department for fighting
fires, and are not to be used by any unauthorized person for any purpose,
without the permission of the town.
§ 54.008 TAMPERING WITH WATER EQUIPMENT.
   All meters, hydrants, water lines, and other equipment furnished by the town
for the purpose of providing water service are the property of the town. No
person, firm or corporation shall connect to, tamper with, or in any way affect
the operation of, a meter, hydrant, water line, or other equipment owned by the
town without prior written permission from the town.
§ 54.009 WORK ON SYSTEM TO COMPLY WITH TOWN REQUIREMENTS.
   All work on the water system, and all connections or disconnections thereto,
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the town, or their
representatives, or plumbers approved by the town. All work shall be performed
in accordance with the State and Town Plumbing Codes, and such amendments
thereto that the town may from time to time adopt, or such non-conflicting
standards or requirements that may be prescribed by the Public Works Director.
§ 54.010 RATE SCHEDULE FOR WATER USAGE.
   All active service accounts shall be billed at least a monthly minimum
charge as specified in the rate schedule currently in effect and approved by
the Board of Aldermen. The current rate schedule can be found in §
50.02(B) and (C) or in the utilities office. The rate schedule is subject to
change at any time.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.011 OWNERS OF MORE THAN ONE HOUSE.
   (A)   In cases where property owners have more than one house, business,
apartment, dwelling unit or establishment on one water meter, the owner shall
be charged the water rate per consumption according to the meter reading, or
minimum rates times the number of houses, businesses, apartments, dwelling
units or establishments on the meter, whichever is more. The owner shall be
charged a sewer rate for each house, business, apartment, dwelling unit or
establishment using the town’s sewer system. The above rates shall be charged
regardless of the status, occupied or vacant, of individual houses, dwelling
units or businesses.
   (B)   Property owners having more than one house, business, dwelling unit or
establishment serviced by the same meter may obtain separate meters and billing
for each such unit or establishment by paying connection fees for each unit or
establishment as provided herein.
   (C)   In all new construction, separate service connections shall be
installed.
§ 54.012 BILLING PROCEDURES AND ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   No water connection shall be made until such time that application has
been made and all connection fees and other applicable fees have been paid. In
projects requiring other permits, no connections shall be made until such time
that all required building, zoning, driveway and other permits required by the
town, county, state or federal agencies have been obtained.
   (B)   The town may reject any application for service not available under a
standard rate, or which includes excessive service costs, or which may affect
the supply of service to other customers or may be detrimental to the waste
treatment process due to the volume, character or content of the discharge.
   (C)   The town shall reject any applications for connection or applications
for service when the applicant is delinquent in payment of bills incurred for
service supplied at any location.
   (D)   Accounts for sprinkler systems only shall not be billed a minimum
charge nor shall water utilized in the extinguishment of fire be billed to the
customer if the sprinkler system is separated from all other plumbing fixtures
and appurtenances and is metered separately from all other consumption or
usage. Any water passing through sprinkler systems due to negligence,
carelessness, frozen pipes, or improper maintenance shall be billed in
accordance with the rate schedule in effect at the time. Any building that is
required to be sprinklered will be required to install a meter on the line
before any fire prevention device (hydrant) or backflow prevention device. Any
water used for fire suppression there will be no charge; any water not used for
fire suppression, including leaks, will be charged at the appropriate rate.
   (E)   In cases where the customer provides conclusive proof that a leak has
occurred in his or her plumbing system that has caused demand to increase and
has been fixed, the utility bill for the period of time when the leak occurred
may be adjusted by reducing the sewer portion of the bill to reflect average
sewage charges for the account, or the minimum sewage charge, whichever is
greatest. In no such circumstances shall the sewage portion of the bill be
reduced below the minimum monthly charge for the period.
   (F)   Situations requiring that special arrangements be made for the payment
of past due accounts may only be approved by the Town Manager.
   (G)   Not less than three-days’ notice must be given, in person or in
writing, at the town utilities office, to discontinue service for a change in
occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is
longer.
   (H)   A claimed failure to receive a bill does not prevent a bill from being
delinquent, or relieve the customer from timely payment, late charges or the
other town remedies contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.013 METER FEES.
   (A)   Customers may be subject to a charge as deemed appropriate each time
the town turns the customer’s meter on or off, at the request of the customer,
between the hours on 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. For cut-
offs requested on weekends, holidays or other than normal business hours set
forth above, the customer may be subject to a charge as deemed appropriate by
the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   There shall be a charge of $50 to turn on a customer’s meter whenever
the meter was turned off due to:
      (1)   The customer’s failure to pay his or her bill;
      (2)   To prevent fraud by the customer;
      (3)   The customer’s violation of any provision of this chapter;
      (4)   The disconnection of electric service to the structure.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.014 SERVICES; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Where service is available, and upon receipt of all fees, the town may
extend service lines to serve properties as follows:
      (1)   In cases where the distribution or collection lines run in a
roadway immediately adjacent to the property to be served, the town shall run a
service line from its water and/or sewer main to the property line.
      (2)   In cases where the distribution or collection lines from which
service is to be obtained is located in a street separated from the property to
be served by the property of another, the town shall run the service line from
its distribution or collection line to the property line of the lot located
adjacent to the road in which the main distribution or collection line is
located.
   (B)   Generally, service lines, meters, etc., installed by the town to serve
properties will be located at a point along the property line mutually agreed
upon by the town and property owner. However, in such cases where mutual
agreement cannot be reached as to the most suitable location, the decision will
rest with the town.
   (C)   The property owners shall be responsible for connecting all plumbing
fixtures, piping and appurtenances on the property with the service lines
installed by the town. Once installed, the property owner shall be responsible
for maintaining his or her water service line from the property or structure
being served to the meter.
   (D)   The town neither guarantees customers uninterrupted service, nor does
it assume any liability for damage to private property due to interruptions in
service. All utility customers are urged to ensure that their plumbing systems
and appurtenances are adequately equipped with back-flow prevention devices or
vacuum relief valves as necessary.
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
§ 54.030 PURPOSE.
   The procedures herein are written to reduce potable water demand and
supplement existing drinking water supplies whenever existing water supply
sources are inadequate to meet current demands for potable water.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.031 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Town Manager shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined in §
54.034 are met. In their absence, the Utility Director will assume this role.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.032 NOTIFICATION.
   The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, notices in water bills and on
the town website http://www.townofwj.com/. Required water shortage response
measures will be communicated through PSA announcements on local radio and
cable stations. Declaration of emergency water restrictions or water rationing
will be communicated to all customers by telephone.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.033 LEVELS OF RESPONSE.
   (A)   Five levels of water shortage response are outlined in the table
below. The five levels of water shortage responses are: voluntary reductions,
mandatory reductions I and II, emergency reductions and water rationing. A
detailed description of each response level and corresponding water reduction
measures follow below.
 
Stage Response                Description
                              Water users are encouraged to reduce their water
1     Voluntary reductions    use and improve water use efficiency, however, no
                              penalties apply for noncompliance. Water supply
                              conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
                              Water users must abide required water use
                              reduction and efficiency measures, penalties
2     Mandatory reductions I  apply for noncompliance. Water supply conditions
                              are significantly lower than the seasonal norm
                              and water shortage conditions are expected to
                              persist.
3     Mandatory reductions II Same as in stage 2.
 
 
Stage Response             Description
                           Water supply conditions are substantially diminished
4     Emergency reductions and pose an imminent threat to human health or
                           environmental integrity.
                           Water supply conditions are substantially diminished
5     Water rationing      and remaining supplies must be allocated to preserve
                           human health and environmental integrity.
 
   (B)   Stage 1, voluntary reductions.  All water users will be asked to
reduce their normal water use by 5%. Customer education and outreach programs
will encourage water conservation and efficiency measures including: irrigating
landscapes a maximum of one inch per week, preventing water waste, runoff and
watering impervious surfaces, watering plants deeply to encourage root growth,
washing only full loads in clothes and dishwashers, using spring-loaded nozzles
on garden hoses, and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
   (C)   Stage 2, mandatory reductions I.  All customers are expected to reduce
their water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month’s water bill. In
addition to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions, the
following restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to a half inch per week
between 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., outdoor use of drinking water for washing
impervious surfaces is prohibited, and all testing and training purposes
required drinking water (e.g. fire protection) will be limited.
   (D)   Stage 3, mandatory reductions II.  Customers must continue actions
from all previous stages and further reduce water use by 20% compared to their
previous month’s water bill. All non-essential uses of drinking water are
banned and garden and landscape irrigation must be reduced to the minimum
amount necessary for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a drought surcharge of
1.5 times the normal water rate applies.
   (E)   Stage 4, emergency reductions. Customers must continue all actions
from previous stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to
their previous month’s water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to
protect public health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase
to two times the normal water rate.
   (F)   Stage 5, water rationing.  The goal of stage 5 is to provide drinking
water to protect public health (e.g. residences, residential health care
facilities and correctional facilities). In stage 5, all customers are only
permitted to use water at the minimum required for public health protection.
Firefighting is the only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for
distributing potable water will be announced according to the town’s emergency
response plan. Drought surcharges increase to five times the normal water rate.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.034 TRIGGERS.
   (A)   The town’s water source is groundwater. The following measurements of
well pumping times and well levels in relationship to pump intake levels
trigger entry into corresponding water restriction stages.
 
Stage Well Operating Conditions
      Pumping time > 10 hours
1     20% reduction in seasonal normal distance from static water level and
      pump intake
      20% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping time > 12 hours
2     40% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
      40% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping time > 14 hours
3     60% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
      60% increase pumping time for same output
4     Pumping time > 20 hours
      80% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
5     Water level at pump intake elevation
 
   (B)   Return to normal.  When water shortage conditions have abated and the
situation is returning to normal, water conservation measures employed during
each phase should be decreased in reverse order of implementation. Permanent
measures directed toward long-term monitoring and conservation should be
implemented or continued so that the community will be in a better position to
prevent shortages and respond to recurring water shortage conditions.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.035 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provision of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by
the town Public Works Department and police personnel. Violators may be
reported on the town’s phone line. Citations are assessed according to the
following schedule depending on the number of prior violations and current
level of water shortage.
 
Water shortage level First Violation Second Violation   Third Violation
Voluntary reductions N/A             N/A                N/A
Mandatory reduction  Warning         $250               Discontinuation of
(stages 2 and 3)                                        service
Emergency reductions $250            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                     service            service
Water rationing      $500            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                     service            service
 
   (B)   Drought surcharge rates are effective in stages 3, 4 and 5.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.036 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of
the water shortage response plan. First, a draft plan will be available at Town
Hall for customers to view. A notice will be included in customer water bill
notifying them. Notice will be printed in all customer water bills to collect
comments on the draft. All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be
published at least 30 days prior to an adoption vote by the Town Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.037 VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the town
website and Public Works Office. All applications must be submitted to the
Public Works Office for review by the Utility Director or his or her designee.
A decision to approve or deny individual variance requests will be determined
within two weeks of submittal after careful consideration of the following
criteria: impact on water demand, expected duration, alternative source
options, social and economic importance, purpose (i.e. necessary use of
drinking water) and the prevention of structural damage.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.038 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the town water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year’s seasonal data.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
§ 54.039 REVISION.
   The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every five years
in conjunction with the updating of our local water supply plan. Further, a
water shortage response planning work group will review procedures following
each emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to
the plan to the Town Aldermen. The Utility Director is responsible for
initiating all subsequent revisions.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2010)
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 54.055 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When necessary, the town may enforce this chapter through injunctive relief
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.056 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   The town may discontinue water service for any one of the reasons listed
below.
   (A)   The customer's failure to pay his or her bill.
   (B)   To prevent fraud by the customer.
   (C)   For emergency repairs initiated by the town.
   (D)   Due to insufficiency of the water supply.
   (E)   Direction of public authorities.
   (F)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, or other accident that causes a water
supply crisis.
   (G)   The customer's violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (H)   Upon discovery of water loss occurring at any unoccupied house,
condominium or other structure.
   (I)   Electric service to the structure receiving water is turned off.
   (J)   For failure to pay a penalty assessed by the town for the customer's
violation of any town ordinance.
   (K)   For failure to pay the town the cost incurred by the town in removing
or otherwise remedying a public nuisance pursuant to the town's nuisance
ordinance.
   (L)   For failure to pay any fee assessed pursuant to
Chapter 50.
   (M)   For the customer's violation of any provision of Chapters
52,
53, or
55 of the Code of Ordinances.
   (N)   For failure to file an occupancy tax return by the date the return is
due.
   (O)   For failure to pay the occupancy tax by the date the tax is due.
   (P)   For failure to pay the real or personal property taxes by the date the
taxes are due.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2011; Ord. passed 9-6-2011; Ord. passed 11-5-2012; Ord. passed
- -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.057 DISCONNECTION OF METER.
   (A)   The town may disconnect the water meter of a customer after service
has been discontinued due to reasons in §
54.056(A), (B), (G), (J), (K), (L), (M), (N), (O) and (P) set forth above.
Subject to the provisions of §
54.059 below, the meter will only be reconnected after the customer has:
      (1)   Corrected the conditions responsible for the disconnection of the
meter.
      (2)   Paid a reconnection fee of $50, plus all other unpaid charges.
   (B)   In the event that a property for which the meter has been disconnected
is sold before service is reconnected, the new owner shall be required to pay a
reconnection fee of $500 before service will be restored to the property.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011; Ord. passed 11-5-2012; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.058 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The town may permanently refuse water service to any customer:
   (A)   Who connects his or her property to the town's water system without
submitting a written application for service to the town;
   (B)   Who turns his or her water back on after the town has discontinued
water service;
   (C)   Who connects to, tampers with, or in any way affects the operation of
a meter, hydrant, water line, sewer line, or other equipment of the town,
without prior written permission from the town; or
   (D)   Who violates any provision of this chapter more than two times in any
24-month period.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.059 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   Prior to suspension of service pursuant to §
54.056(A), (B), (G), (J), (K), (L), (M), (N), (O) and (P) above, the customer
has the right to request a hearing with the Town Manager. In order to exercise
this right, the customer must deliver to the town a written request for a
hearing. The request must state the reasons why the customer believes service
should not be suspended. The written request must be received by the town
within ten days after the date of the notice of suspension. The hearing shall
be conducted within ten days after the written request for a hearing is
received by the town. The Town Manager shall determine the date and time of the
hearing. If the customer fails to attend the hearing, the Town Manager shall
make a decision, based upon the written documents received from the customer
and the Public Utilities Department. The decision of the Town Manager is final.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011; Ord. passed 11-5-2012; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which a specific
penalty is not prescribed shall be subject to the penalties and enforcement
procedures set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed - -)
APPENDIX A: CONSERVATION MEASURES
Appendix
APPENDIX A: CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Direct users to adopt the following conservation measures:
   (A)   Indoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for voluntary and mandatory conservation phases.
         (a)   Use dishwashers only when they are full. Washing dishes by hand
(don't let the tap run!) Saves about 25 gallons.
         (b)   Adjust water level on clothes washing machines, if possible. Use
full loads only, if not adjustable.
         (c)   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth and the like. Saves about
five gallons per day.
         (d)   Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank
displacement inserts. A plastic jug may often be used as an alternative. Do not
use bricks-they disintegrate when soaked, and the resulting grit hinders
closing of the flap valve.
         (e)   Do not use the toilet as a trash can.
         (f)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
         (g)   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking.
         (h)   Find and fix leaks in faucets and water-using appliances.
Faucets can usually be fixed cheaply and quickly by replacing washers.
         (i)   Adapt plumbing with flow-restricting or other water-saving
devices. These are usually inexpensive and easy to install. See list of devices
in Appendix E.
         (j)   Learn to read your water meter so you can judge how much water
you use and what difference conservation makes.
         (k)   Take shorter showers and shallow baths. Saves about 25 gallons.
         (l)   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses
about five gallons (two to three if you have water saving toilets).
         (m)   Don't use a garbage disposal. Use non-phosphate detergent and
save laundry water for lawns and plants.
      (2)   Conservation for emergency conservation or rationing phase (in
addition to measures listed above).
         (a)   Turn off shower while soaping up.
         (b)   Use disposable eating utensils.
   (B)   Outdoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for normal conditions and voluntary conservation
phase.
         (a)   Lawns.
            1.   Water before 10:00 am. to prevent evaporation which occurs
during the hottest part of the day. Morning is better than evening, when the
dampness encourages growth of fungus.
            2.   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs
back when stepped on does not need water.
            3.   Water thoroughly, not frequently; long enough to soak roots. A
light sprinkling evaporates quickly and encourages shallow root systems. Water
slowly to avoid runoff.
            4.   Don't let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary. In an
hour, 600 gallons can be wasted.
            5.   Allow maximum of one inch of water per week on your lawn. To
measure, place cake tins outside to collect rain and water from sprinklers.
            6.   Use pistol-grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering
flowers and shrubs.
            7.   Aerate lawns by punching holes six inches apart. This allows
water to reach roots rather than run off surfaces.
            8.   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
            9.   Avoid watering on windy days when the wind not only blows
water off target, but also causes excess evaporation.
            10.   Keep sprinkler heads clean to prevent uneven watering.
            11.   Adjust hose to simulate a gentle rain. Sprinklers that
produce a fine mist waste water through evaporation.
            12.   Know how to turn off an automatic sprinkler system in case of
rain.
            13.   Use an alarm clock or stove timer to remind you to shut off
sprinklers that don't have timers.
         (b)   Vegetables and flower gardens.
            1.   Water deeply, slowly, and weekly. Most vegetables require
moisture to a depth of six to eight inches.
            2.   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
            3.   Keep weeds out to reduce competition for water.
            4.   Put the water where you want it, and avoid evaporation by
using soil-soakers or slow-running hoses, not sprinklers.
         (c)   Trees and shrubs.
            1.   Water deeply using a soil-soaker or drip-irrigation.
            2.   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by
digging with a trowel.
            3.   Mulch to reduce evaporation. A two to three inch layer of wood
chips, pine needles, grass clippings, or straw keeps the soil cool in summer.
            4.   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
            5.   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in
shade.
            6.   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
            7.   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a
plant's need for water.
            8.   Postpone planting until fall or spring, when there is
generally less need for water.
            9.   Install trickle-drip irrigation systems close to the roots of
your plants. By dripping water slowly, the system doesn't spray water in to the
air. Use soil probes for large trees.
            10.   Water when cloudy, at night, or even when a light rain is
falling.
   (C)   Outdoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for voluntary conservation phase (in addition to
measures listed above).
         (a)   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
         (b)   Limit car washing.
         (c)   Be ready to catch rainfall that occurs. Place containers under
drain sprouts.
         (d)   Use leftover household water if available.
         (e)   Consider delaying the seeding or sodding of new lawns.
         (f)   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing
water bills for summer and winter.
      (2)   Conservation for mandatory conservation phase (in addition to
measures listed above).
         (a)   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts
of water on an individual basis only.
         (b)   Do not water lawns and inedible plants.
         (c)   Do not use sprinklers.
         (d)   Most outdoor watering is prohibited under emergency conservation
conditions.
   (D)   Hospital and health care facility use.
      (1)   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing bed linens and the
like only when necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
      (2)   Use disposable food service items.
      (3)   Eliminate, postpone, or reduce, as they may be appropriate,
elective surgical procedures during the period of emergency.
   (E)   Industrial use.
      (1)   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
Give special attention to equipment connected directly to water lines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners, and furnaces.
      (2)   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are shut
off completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
      (3)   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
      (4)   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible;
implement lower water levels wherever possible.
      (5)   For processing, cooling, and other uses, either re-use water or use
water from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
      (6)   Advise employees, students, patients, customers, and other users
not to flush toilets after every use. Install toilet tank displacement inserts;
place flow restrictors in shower heads and faucets; close down automatic
flushes overnight.
      (7)   Install automatic flushing valves to use as little water as
possible, or to cycle at longer intervals.
      (8)   Place water-saving posters and literature where employees,
students, patients, customers, and the like will have access to them.
      (9)   Check meters on a frequent basis to determine consumptive patterns.
      (10)   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
(Ord. passed 7-3-2003)
CHAPTER 55: FATS, OILS, AND GREASES
Section
   
55.01   Purpose
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Control plan for (FOG) and food waste
   
55.04   General criteria
   
55.05   Design criteria
   
55.06   Grease trap maintenance
   
55.07   Additives
   
55.08   Chemical treatment
   
55.09   Sand, soil and oil interceptors
   
55.10   Laundries
   
55.11   Control equipment
   
55.12   Alteration of control methods
   
55.13   Severability
   
55.14   Effective period
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control discharges into the public
sewerage collection system and wastewater treatment plant that interfere with
the operations of the system, cause blockage and plugging of pipelines,
interfere with normal operation of pumps and their controls, and contribute
waste of a strength or form that either causes treatment difficulties or is
beyond the treatment capability of the wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES. Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting,
toasting, or poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing,
and any other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food
product in or on a receptacle that requires washing. These facilities include
restaurants, cafeterias, hotels, motels, hospitals, nursing homes, schools,
grocery stores, prisons, jails, churches, camps, caterers, manufacturing
plants, or any other sewer users as determined by the town's Wastewater
Collection System Superintendent who discharge applicable waste.
   GREASE. Material composed primarily of fats, oil, and grease (FOG) from
animal or vegetable sources. The terms fats, oil, and grease shall be deemed as
GREASE by definition. GREASE does not include petroleum based products.
   GREASE TRAP. A device for separating and retaining waterborne greases and
grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also serve to
collect settlable solids, generated by and from food preparation activities,
prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system.
   OIL/WATER SEPARATOR. An approved and industry standard system that is
specifically designed and manufactured to separate oil from water. The system
shall allow the oil to be collected and removed on a regular basis as to
prevent it from being discharge into the wastewater collection system. Only
oil/water separators manufactured for that specific operation will be approved.
Adequate support literature from the manufacturer will be required so as to
allow a proper review by the Wastewater Collections Superintendent.
   USER. Any person or establishment including those located outside the
jurisdictional limits of the town who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the town's wastewater collection
or treatment system, including persons who contribute such wastewater from
mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.03 CONTROL PLAN FOR (FOG) AND FOOD WASTE.
   (A)   Any new construction, renovation, or expansion of Food Service
Facilities shall be required to submit to the town a FOG and food waste control
plan that will effectively control the discharge of undesirable materials into
the wastewater collection system.
   (B)   Any existing food service facilities shall also be required to submit
a FOG and food waste control plan that will effectively control the discharge
of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection system. Existing
facilities shall not be exempt from requirements of this chapter. There will be
no "Grandfathering."
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.04 GENERAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Installation requirements. All existing, proposed, or newly remodeled
food service facilities inside the town's wastewater service area shall be
required to install, at the user's expense an approved, properly operated and
maintained grease trap.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer flows. Sanitary sewer flows from toilets, urinals,
lavatories, etc. shall not be discharged into the grease trap. These flows
shall be conveyed separately to the sanitary sewer service lateral.
   (C)   Floor drains. Only floor drains which discharge or have the potential
to discharge grease shall be connected to a grease trap.
   (D)   Garbage grinders/disposals. It is recommended that solid food waste
products be disposed of through normal solid waste/garbage disposal means. If a
grinder/disposal is used it must be connected to the grease trap. The use of
grinders is discouraged since it decreases the operational capacity of the
grease trap and will require an increased pumping frequency to ensure
continuous and effective operation.
   (E)   Dishwashers. Commercial dishwashers must be connected to the grease
trap. Dishwashers discharge soap and hot water which can melt grease and allow
it to pass through an undersized grease trap. Traps must be sized accordingly
to allow enough detention time to allow water to cool and grease to solidify
and float to the top of the trap.
   (F)   Location. Grease traps shall be installed outside the building
upstream from the sanitary sewer service lateral connection. This will allow
easy access for inspection, cleaning, and removal of the intercepted grease at
any time. A grease trap may not be installed inside any part of a building
without written approval by the Collection System Superintendent.
   (G)   Pass trough limits. No user shall allow wastewater discharge
concentration from grease trap to exceed 100 mg/l (Milligrams per liter).
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.05 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Construction. Grease traps shall be constructed in accordance with the
town's standards and shall have a minimum of two compartments with fittings
designed for grease retention. All grease removal devises or technologies shall
be subject to the written approval of the Collection System Superintendent.
Such approval shall be based on demonstrated removal efficiencies of the
proposed technology.
   (B)   Access. Access to grease traps shall be available at all times, to
allow for their maintenance and inspection. Access to trap shall be provided by
two manholes (one on each compartment) terminating at the finished grade with
cast iron frame and cover.
   (C)   Load-bearing capacity. In areas where additional weight loads may
exist, the grease trap shall be designed to have adequate load-bearing
capacity. (Example: vehicular traffic in driving or parking areas)
   (D)   Inlet and outlet piping. Wastewater discharging to a grease trap shall
enter only through the inlet pipe of the trap. Each grease trap shall have only
one inlet and one outlet pipe.
   (E)   Grease trap sizing. The required size of the grease trap shall be
calculated using EPA-2 model. All grease traps shall have a capacity of not
less than 1,000 gallon nor exceed a capacity of 3,000 gallon If the calculated
capacity exceeds 3,000 gallon, multiple units plumbed in series shall be
installed.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.06 GREASE TRAP MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Cleaning/pumping.
      (1)   The user at the user's expense shall maintain all grease traps to
ensure proper operation and efficiency and maintain compliance with the town's
pass trough limits.
      (2)   Maintenance of grease trap shall include the complete removal of
all contents, including floating materials, waster, and bottom sludge and
solids. This work shall be performed by a qualified and licensed hauler.
Decanting or discharging of removed wasted back into the trap from which it was
removed or any other grease trap, for the purpose of reducing the volume to be
disposed, is prohibited. This service shall also include a thorough inspection
of the trap and its components. Any needed repairs shall be made at user's
expense.
   (B)   Cleaning/pumping frequency. The grease trap must be pumped out
completely at a minimum of once every four months, or more frequently, as
determined by the Collections System Superintendent, as needed to prevent carry
over of grease into the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Disposal. All waste removed from each grease trap must be disposed of
at a facility approved to receive such waste in accordance with the provisions
of this program. In no way shall the pumpage be returned to any private or
public portion of the town's sanitary sewer collection system. All pumpage from
grease traps must be tracked by a manifest, which confirms pumping, hauling,
and disposal of waste. The customer must obtain and retain a copy of the
original manifest from the hauler.
   (D)   Maintenance log. A grease trap cleaning/maintenance log indicating
each pumping for the previous 24 months shall be maintained by each food
service facility. This log shall include the date, time, amount pumped, hauler,
and disposal site, and shall be kept in a conspicuous location for inspection.
The log shall be made available to the Collection System Superintendent upon
request.
   (E)   Submittal of records.
      (1)   Each user shall submit all cleaning and maintenance records to the
Collection System Superintendent. The maintenance records shall include the
following information:
         (a)   Facility name, address, contact person, and phone number.
         (b)   Company name, address, phone number, and contact person
responsible for performing the maintenance, cleaning, pumping or repair of
grease trap.
         (c)   Types of maintenance performed.
         (d)   Dates maintenance was performed.
         (e)   Date of next scheduled maintenance.
         (f)   Copies of manifests.
      (2)   The user shall be required to submit maintenance records to the
Collection System Superintendent on a biannual basis (twice a year). Records
shall be submitted by March 1 and September 1 of each year. The records shall
be submitted to:
ATTN. WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM
SUPERINTENDENT
P.O. BOX 490
WEST JEFFERSON, N.C. 28694
      (3)   The Collection System Superintendent will perform periodic
inspections of these facilities and shall notify the user of any additional
required maintenance or repairs. Upon written notification by the Collections
Superintendent, the user shall be required to perform the maintenance and
records of said maintenance within 14 calendar days. Upon inspection by the
Collections Superintendent the user may be required to install, at his or her
expense, additional controls to provide a complete system which prevents
discharges of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection system.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.07 ADDITIVES.
   Any biological additive(s) placed into the grease trap or building discharge
line including but not limited to, enzymes, commercially available bacteria, or
other additives designed to absorb, purge consume, treat, or otherwise
eliminate fats, oils, and grease shall require written approval by the
Collections System Superintendent prior to use. The use of such additives shall
in no way be considered as a substitution to the maintenance procedures
required herein.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.08 CHEMICAL TREATMENT.
   Chemical treatments such as drain cleaners, acid, or other chemical solvents
designed to dissolve or remove grease shall not be allowed to enter the grease
trap.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.09 SAND, SOIL AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   All car washes, truck washes, garages, service stations, car and truck
maintenance facilities, fabricators, utility equipment shops, and other
facilities (as determined by the Collections Superintendent) that have sources
of sand, soil, and oil shall install effective sand, soil, and oil traps,
interceptors, and/or oil/water separators. These systems shall be, at the
user's expense, cleaned or pumped on a regular basis to prevent impact upon the
wastewater collection and treatment systems. Users whose systems are deemed to
be ineffective by the Collection System Superintendent shall be asked to change
the cleaning frequency or to increase the size of the system. Owners or
operators of washing facilities will be required to prevent the inflow of
detergents and rainwater into the wastewater collection system. Oil/water
separator installations shall be required at facilities that accumulate
petroleum oils and greases and at facilities deemed necessary by the
Collections Superintendent.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.10 LAUNDRIES.
   Commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor with a wire
basket or similar device, removable for cleaning, that prevents passage (into
the wastewater collection system) of solids one-half inch or larger in size
such as rags, strings, buttons, or other solids detrimental to the system.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.11 CONTROL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The equipment or facilities installed to control FOG, food waste,
sand, soil, oil, and lint must be designed in accordance with the Ashe County
Plumbing Code (State of North Carolina), most current engineering standards,
other applicable guidelines approved by the Wastewater Collections
Superintendent. Underground equipment shall be tightly sealed to prevent inflow
of rainwater and shall be easily accessible to allow regular maintenance and
inspection.
   (B)   Control equipment shall be maintained by the owner and/or operator of
the facility as to prevent a stoppage of the wastewater collection system, and
the accumulation of FOG, food waste, sand, soil, and lint in the collection
lines, pump stations, and wastewater treatment plant. If the town is required
to clean out the wastewater collection lines, as a result of a stoppage
resulting from poorly maintained control equipment (or lack of) the owner or
operator shall be required to refund the labor, equipment, materials, and any
overhead costs to the town including fines incurred due to any sanitary sewer
overflow due directly to the stoppage.
   (C)   The town retains the right to inspect and approve any and all
installations of control equipment.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.12 ALTERATION OF CONTROL METHODS.
   The town, through the Wastewater Collection Superintendent, reserves the
right to request additional control measures if existing control equipment is
shown to be insufficient to protect the wastewater collection system and
wastewater treatment plant from interference due to the discharge of FOG, sand,
soil, lint, or any other undesirable materials.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.13 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, and clause of this chapter is
declared to be separable and severable.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.14 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   This chapter shall remain in effect until terminated by action of the town's
governing body.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter, in part or whole, shall be guilty of a
civil violation punishable under and according to the general penalty provision
of the Town of West Jefferson's Sewer Use Ordinance and Enforcement Response
Plan. Each day's violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009)
CHAPTER 56: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
Section
   56.01   Purpose
   56.02   Definitions
   56.03   Responsibility
   56.04   Right of entry
   56.05   Prohibited
   56.06   Installation
   56.07   Degree of hazard
   56.08   Notices
   56.99   Penalty
§ 56.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this cross connection chapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution which could backflow into the public
water system, due to backsiphonage or backpressure, by isolating the pollution
or contaminants within the customer's private water system.
   (B)   To define the authority of the town as the water purveyor entitled to
eliminating all cross connections, new or existing, within it's public water
system.
   (C)   To provide for a continuing program of inspections and testing of
existing cross connections, and those which may be installed in the future.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   AIR GAP.  An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere between
the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water from any source to a
tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the device.
An approved air gap separation shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe. In no case shall the air gap separation be less than two inches.
An approved air gap may be considered as a backflow prevention assembly.
   BACKFLOW. Any reverse flow of water, gas or any other liquid substance into
the public water system of the town from any source due to an unprotected cross
connection.
   BACKFLOW ADMINISTRATOR.  An employee of the town, trained and certified by
the state, designated to administer and enforce this chapter, also known as the
Cross Connection Control Technician.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (APPROVED ).  An assembly that has been
investigated and approved by the Town Backflow Administrator and has been
approved to meet the design and performance standards of the American Society
of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE), the American Water Works Association (AWWA), or
the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California.
   BACK PRESSURE.  Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system
caused by pumps, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure above the
supply pressure at the point of consideration, which would cause a reversal of
the normal direction of flow of water.
   BACKSIPHONAGE.  A reversal of the normal direction of flow of water in the
pipes due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line with
the backflow source subject to atmospheric pressure.
   CERTIFIED TESTER.  Any individual person who holds a certificate of
completion and passes the exam from a certified training program in the testing
and repair of backflow prevention assemblies and cross connection control.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving water from
the town.
   CONTAINMENT.  The prevention of backflow from a private water system by an
approved, properly functioning backflow prevention assembly which is installed,
operated, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which
creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the
spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION.  Any actual or potential connection or piping arrangement
between the public or a customer's potable water supply and any other source or
system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable
system any used water, industrial fluids, gas, or any substance which could be
harmful or hazardous to the potable water supply or system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.  An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the device and suitable connections for testing
the water tightness of each check valve.
   HAZARD (IMMINENT).  An actual threat of contamination to the public water
system that could cause serious illness or death.
   HAZARD (NON HEALTH).  An actual or potential threat of damage to the
physical components comprising the public water system or to a customer's
potable water system, or of pollution to the public water system or to a
customer's potable water system.
   HAZARD (HEALTH).  A potential threat of contamination to the public water
system or to a customer's potable water system that could cause serious illness
or death.
   POTABLE WATER.  Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the State of North Carolina, Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply
Section.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM.  Any water system located on the customer's premise,
whether supplied by public potable water or an auxiliary water supply. The
system or systems may be either a potable water system or an industrial piping
system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.  The potable water system owned and operated by the
town. This includes all storage tanks, distribution mains, lines, pipes,
connections, and other facilities conveying potable water from the water
treatment plants to the service connections of each customer.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE ASSEMBLY.  An approved, properly functioning assembly
containing two, independently acting, approved check valves with a
hydraulically operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief
valve located between the check valves and at the same time below the first
check valve. The assembly must include properly located test cocks and tightly
closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, immediately after the water meter, i.e., where the
water purveyor loses jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its
point of delivery to the customer's private water system.
   USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable
water system to a customer's private water system after it has passed through
the point of delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR.  Owner or operator of a public potable water system
providing approved potable water supply to the public.
   WATER SUPPLY (AUXILIARY).  Any water supply on or available to the
customer's premises other than the water purveyor's public potable water
system. The auxiliary water may include water from another purveyor's public
potable water system or any natural source such as a well, spring, river,
stream, and the like, and used or objectionable.
   WATER SUPPLY (UNAPPROVED).  Any water supply, which has not been approved
for human consumption by the State of North Carolina, Department of Environment
and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply
Section.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Responsibility of the town.
      (1)   The Utilities Maintenance Division will be primarily responsible
for preventing any contamination or pollution of the public water system. This
responsibility begins at the point of origin of the public water system supply
and includes all of the public water distribution system, and ends at the
service connection, under the Safe Drinking Water Act. The Backflow
Administrator shall exercise vigilance to ensure that the consumer/customer has
taken the proper steps to protect the public potable water system.
      (2)   When it has been determined by an inspection of the customer's
private water system that a backflow protection system is required for the
protection of the public water system, the Backflow Administrator shall notify
the owner, in writing, of any such building or premises, to correct within a
time set by this chapter, any plumbing installed or existing that is in
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   The Backflow Administrator will select an approved backflow
prevention assembly to be installed at the service connection. The owner shall
be notified that the installation of a backflow prevention assembly may create
a closed system, and as a result thermal expansion may occur. In these
circumstances the owner must understand and assume all liability and
responsibilities for that phenomenon.
   (B)   Responsibility of the customer.
      (1)   The customer has the responsibility of preventing contaminants and
pollutants from entering the customer's private water system or the public
water system operated by the town. The customer, at his or her own expense,
shall install, operate, test and maintain all backflow prevention assemblies
specified within this chapter.
      (2)   If a tenant customer does not maintain the private water system,
and has no authority to bring the system into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, the town may assert any available legal action against the tenant
customer to assure the private water system is brought into compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Any authorized representative from the town shall have the right to
enter any building, structure or premises during normal business hours to
perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter and in accordance with
the North Carolina State Plumbing Code, and the North Carolina Administrative
Code. Those duties may include sampling and testing of water, or inspection and
observation of all piping systems connected to the public water supply. Refusal
to allow these representatives to enter for these purposes will result in
disconnection of water service.
   (B)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the water purveyor any
pertinent information regarding the water supply system on the property where
cross connection and backflow are deemed possible. (N.C. State Plumbing Code
Appendix).
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.05 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection to any private water system shall be
installed or maintained by the town unless the water supply is protected as
required by this chapter and in accordance with the North Carolina State
Plumbing Code, and the North Carolina Administrative Code. Service of water to
any premises shall be discontinued by the town if a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter, is not installed, tested and maintained, or
if a backflow prevention assembly has been removed, bypassed or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will be restored
after all the conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   No customer shall allow an unprotected cross connection to be made or
to remain involving the customer's private water system.
   (C)   No connection shall be made to an unapproved auxiliary water supply
unless the public water supply is protected against backflow by an approved
backflow prevention assembly, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
   (D)   No interconnection to any other water purveyor's water system shall be
made unless it is protected against backflow by an approved backflow prevention
assembly.
   (E)   No customer shall fail to maintain in good operating condition any
backflow prevention assembly, which is part of the customer's private water
system and is required by this chapter.
   (F)   No customer shall fail to submit to the town any records, which are
required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.06 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installation and testing requirements:
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to require that, when a cross
connection or health hazard has been identified, all water flowing from the
public water system into that private water system, must flow through an
approved backflow prevention assembly. Further, each backflow prevention
assembly must be properly located, installed, maintained, and tested so that
the backflow prevention assembly is effective in protecting the public water
system from any possible contamination or pollution.
      (2)   The installation or replacement of a backflow prevention assembly
for domestic water use shall only be performed by a licensed plumber or utility
contractor. The installation, replacement or repair of a backflow prevention
assembly on a dedicated fire sprinkler service shall only be performed by a
licensed fire sprinkler contractor. All backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested by a certified backflow prevention assembly tester authorized by the
town.
      (3)   All new construction plans and specifications which will receive
service from the town public water system shall be made available to the
Backflow Administrator for review, approval, and to determine the degree of
hazard, and any required backflow prevention assembly to be installed.
      (4)   All existing facilities zoned commercial or industrial that have
existing water services with the town and requesting certificate of occupancy
from the Town or County Planning and Zoning offices, whether for new
construction or change of use, shall be inspected for compliance of backflow
prevention and cross connection prevention. Any facility not having backflow
protection or changing the degree of hazard shall be brought into compliance
before the Backflow Administrator may release the certificate of occupancy.
      (5)   The Backflow Administrator will determine if a customer must
install a backflow prevention assembly, and provide the customer with a letter
of notification and list of approved backflow prevention assemblies. Any
unapproved backflow prevention assembly must be replaced, with an approved
backflow prevention assembly, within a time period set by the Backflow
Administrator. The following time periods shall be set forth for the
installation of the specified backflow prevention assemblies:
         (a)   New construction.  No water meter will be installed by the town
until the proper backflow prevention is installed, tested, and approved.
         (b)   Change of use/change of ownership.  No water service will be
activated by the town until the proper backflow prevention is installed,
tested, and approved.
         (c)   Existing facility evaluation:
            1.   Health hazard: 90 days.
            2.   Non-health hazard: 180 days.
         (d)   If an imminent hazard or an unreasonable threat of contamination
or pollution to the town's public water system is detected, the Backflow
Administrator may require the installation of the required backflow prevention
assembly immediately, or within a shorter time period than specified above. If
installation is not completed within the specified time period, water service
may be discontinued.
      (6)   All backflow prevention assemblies must be installed and maintained
on the customer's premises as part of the customer's private water system at or
near the service connection and before the service line is connected to any
other pipes except as authorized by the Backflow Administrator.
      (7)   If it has been determined that a backflow prevention assembly
cannot be installed at the meter service, due to zoning or DOT right-of-way, an
approved backflow prevention assembly must be installed on any branch of
plumbing installed between the service meter and the service backflow
prevention assembly.
      (8)   Any branch of plumbing installed on the private water system that
may be of a greater hazard than the supply line, (example: irrigation systems
or pump systems, and the like) shall be protected with the appropriate backflow
prevention device, as determined by the Backflow Administrator.
      (9)    Approved backflow prevention assemblies.  Meets American Society
of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) standard and carries ASSE seal or is on the
University of Southern California approval list. Also see the current revision
of the town backflow assemblies specifications sheets.
      (10)   Any customer installing any backflow prevention assembly must
provide the following information to the Backflow Administrator:
         (a)   Owner;
         (b)   Service address where assembly is installed;
         (c)   Description of assembly's location;
         (d)   Date of installation;
         (e)   Type of assembly;
         (f)   Manufacturer;
         (g)   Model number;
         (h)   Serial number; and
         (i)   Test results/ reports.
      (11)   Reserved.
      (12)   Each backflow prevention assembly that is required must function
properly at time of installation. Each customer will be required to maintain,
and repair each assembly required as part of their private water system.
Testing shall be done immediately following installation of any backflow
prevention assembly and annually thereafter. The owner at their own expense
shall have a certified backflow prevention assembly tester conduct the tests
and forward the results to the town within ten business days.
      (13)   If a repair is necessary on an assembly it must be re-tested
following any repairs. The owner at their own expense shall have a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester conduct tests and forward the results to
the town. A complete duplicate copy of any testing and/or repair shall be sent
to the Backflow Administrator within ten business days of completion of test or
repair. Each customer must maintain a complete copy of test or repair for no
less than five years. All test and repair records must be maintained on forms
approved by the Backflow Administrator.
      (14)   All rubber components must be replaced every five years or as
often as needed, according to manufacturer's directions and components
condition.
      (15)    Any existing backflow prevention assembly that was installed
prior to the adoption of this chapter, which is not the proper type for the
hazard will be allowed to remain in use until it fails the annual test. At that
point the assembly shall be replaced with the proper type of assembly for the
current hazard classification.
   (B)   Installation location requirements:
      (1)   Backflow prevention assemblies must be located in a place where it
is readily accessible for regular testing, maintenance, repair, and inspection.
Any customer's water service that is critical and can not be shut down for
annual testing or maintenance may install parallel backflow prevention
assembly. Bypass lines parallel to a backflow prevention assembly shall have an
approved backflow prevention assembly that is equal to that on the main line.
      (2)   Reduced pressure zone assembly (RPZ).
         (a)   Above ground or indoor installation is preferred and encouraged.
         (b)   Below ground installation is strongly discouraged, and shall
only be allowed in special cases as approved by the Backflow Administrator. The
vault shall have positive drainage with adequate gravity drainage to atmosphere
and must be in a location where no portion of assembly can become submerged at
any time or under any circumstances or conditions.
         (c)   Twelve inches minimum and a maximum of 48 inches clearance from
vault floor and walls.
         (d)   Horizontal installation unless manufacturer states otherwise.
         (e)   Installation in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
         (f)   Located where it is readily accessible for regular testing,
maintenance, and inspection.
      (3)   Double check valve assembly (DCVA).
         (a)   Above ground or indoor installation is preferred and encouraged.
         (b)   Below ground installation is strongly discouraged, and shall
only be allowed in special cases as approved by the Backflow Administrator. The
vault shall have positive drainage with adequate gravity drainage to atmosphere
and must be in a location where no portion of assembly can become submerged at
any time or under any circumstances or conditions.
         (c)   Twelve inches minimum and a maximum of 48 inches clearance from
vault floor and walls.
         (d)   Vertical or horizontal installation acceptable.
         (e)   Installation in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
         (f)   Located where it is readily accessible for regular testing,
maintenance, and inspection.
      (4)   Air gap (AG).
         (a)   Above ground installation only.
         (b)   Must be in a location where no portion of assembly can become
submerged at any time under any circumstances or conditions.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.07 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   (A)   Determining.
      (1)   No service shall be completed until the Backflow Administrator has
been provided information or has surveyed the private water system to determine
the degree of hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly
to be installed to protect the town public water supply.
      (2)   Any customer making any modification to the private water system's
use or configuration, which may change the degree of hazard, shall notify in
writing the Backflow Administrator before any modification is made. If the
Backflow Administrator determines that such modification requires a greater
degree of backflow prevention assembly, that assembly must be installed prior
to any modification of use or configuration.
      (3)   If the Backflow Administrator or his or her designee is unable to
survey any portion of a private water system to determine the degree of hazard,
due to confidential activities, a reduced pressure zone assembly will be
required.
   (B)   Degree.
      (1)   Health hazard. Actual or potential threat of contamination that
presents an imminent danger to the public health with consequence of serious
illness or death.
      (2)   Non-health hazard.  One that presents foreseeable and significant
potential for pollution, nuisance, aesthetically objectionable or other
undesirable alterations of the town public drinking water supply.
   (C)   (1)   Minimum backflow prevention assembly requirements:
 
Degree of hazard  RPZ DCVA AG PVB
Health hazard     X        X  X
Non-health hazard     X
AG - Air gap
DCVA - Double check valve assembly
RPZ - Reduced pressure zone assembly
PVB - Pressure vacuum breaker
 
      (2)   Facilities that require a blackflow prevention assembly:
         (a)   Residential dual check valve.  If no other backflow prevention
assembly is specified a dual check valve assembly must be installed on all
private water systems.
         (b)   Non-health hazard.
            1.   Connection to tanks, lines, and vessels that handle non-toxic
substances.
            2.   Fire sprinkler systems.
            3.   Most commercial establishments.
            4.   Schools, daycares and colleges.
            5.   Bakeries, restaurants, and the like.
            6.   Churches.
            7.   Bottling plants without back pressure.
            8.   Office buildings.
            9.   Other facilities as determined by the Backflow Administrator.
         (c)   Health hazard. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list.
Any other type facilities or services not listed below may also be required to
install an approved backflow prevention assembly if determined by the Backflow
Administrator. All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection
and approval by the Backflow Administrator or his or her designee's.
            1.    Wastewater treatment plants.
            2.   Beauty shop and salons.
            3.   Connection to tanks, lines, boilers or vessels that handle
sewage, lethal substances, toxic or radioactive substances.
            4.   All lawn irrigation systems.
            5.   Connection to an unapproved water system or auxiliary water
supply.
            6.   Buildings with five or more stories above ground.
            7.   Hospitals and other medical facilities.
            8.   Morgues, mortuaries and autopsy facilities.
            9.   Metal plating facilities.
            10.   Breweries, bottling plants with back pressure.
            11.   Canneries.
            12.   Battery manufacturers.
            13.   Exterminators and lawn care companies.
            14.   Chemical processing plants.
            15.   Dairies.
            16.   Film laboratories.
            17.   Car wash facilities.
            18.   Dye works.
            19.   Laundries.
            20.   Swimming pools.
            21.   Water front facilities.
            22.   Concrete/asphalt plants.
            23.   Airports.
            24.   Oil and gas production, storage, or transmission facilities.
            25.   Sand and gravel plants.
            26.   Furniture manufacturing plants.
            27.   Interconnection with other water purveyor's potable water
systems.
            28.   Gas/service stations.
            29.   Other facilities as determined by the Backflow Administrator.
      (3)   (a)   Filling of tanks/tankers or any other container from a town
owned fire hydrant is strictly prohibited unless it has been equipped with the
proper meter and approved backflow prevention assembly. The town will issue a
permit for this tank/tanker or container. Any unauthorized connection to a fire
hydrant is considered an illegal cross connection to the town public water
system and will be subject to penalties as set forth in the town fee schedule.
         (b)   Exemption. All fire apparatus are exempt from the backflow
prevention requirements only if fighting fire or training. If training they are
asked to notify the Town's Utilities Maintenance Division. However, if fire
apparatus is being used to resell water the same rules for tank filling apply.
      (4)   Imminent hazard.  If it has been determined a customer's private
water system has an imminent hazard, that customer must install an approved
backflow prevention assembly specified by the Backflow Administrator and this
chapter. This assembly must be installed within 24 hours of notification from
the Backflow Administrator. If the customer fails to install the specified
assembly within the allowed time period, water service to the customer's
private water system will be terminated and the customer may be subject to
civil penalties. In the event the Backflow Administrator is unable to notify
the customer within 24 hours of determining an imminent hazard exists, the
Backflow Administrator may terminate water service until the specified assembly
is installed. These actions may be carried out under the Safe Drinking Water
Act and the North Carolina State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.08 NOTICES.
   (A)   In the event the customer's private water system becomes contaminated
or polluted the customer shall immediately notify the Backflow Administrator or
Utilities Maintenance Division.
   (B)   In the event the customer has reason to believe that a backflow
incident has occurred between the customer's private water system and the
public water system the customer shall immediately notify the Backflow
Administrator or Utilities Maintenance Division so that appropriate actions can
be taken to isolate and remove the contamination or pollution.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notification of violation.
      (1)   A written notice will be presented to any customer/person who has
been found to be in violation of any part of this chapter.
      (2)   First notice must explain the violation and give the time period
within which the violation must be corrected.
      (3)    Second notice will give 30 additional days to install all backflow
prevention assemblies as required by this chapter.
      (4)   Third notice will be a civil penalty allowing 15 more days to
comply before the penalties begin.
      (5)   In the event a customer found to be in violation of this chapter
fails to correct the violation within the specified time or, fails to pay any
civil penalties expense assessed under this chapter, water service will be
terminated.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which is of a health hazard: $1,000.00 per day not to exceed $10,000.00.
      (2)   Unprotected cross connection involving a tank/tanker or other
container hooked to a fire hydrant: $1,000 per occurrence.
      (3)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which is of a non-health hazard: $500 per day not to exceed $5,000.
      (4)   Submitting false records which are required by this chapter:
$1,000.
      (5)   Failure to submit records which are required by this chapter: $500.
      (6)   Failure to test or maintain backflow prevention assemblies as
required by this chapter: $100 per day.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   ENFORCEMENT
      76.   BICYCLE AND SKATEBOARD SAFETY
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Turning regulated
   
70.03   Unlawful passing
   
70.04   Special provisions
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of Title VII, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle.
   HIGHWAY or STREET.  The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms HIGHWAY or STREET or a combination of the two terms shall be used
synonymously.
   INTERSECTION.  The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral edge
of roadway lines of two or more highways which join one another at an angle
whether or not one highway crosses the other.
   LOCAL STREET.  A street within the town that is not part of the state
highway system.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle that is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets that is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   OPERATOR.  A person in actual physical control of a vehicle that is in
motion or that has the engine running.
   PARKING or STANDING.  A vehicle is parked or is permitted to stand when it
is stopped and allowed to remain in a fixed location for any duration of time,
whether attended or unattended. Except where the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the limitation on PARKING and STANDING in this Title VII apply only
to locations within a street right-of-way. In no case do these limitations
apply when a vehicle is stopped to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device or as a result of an emergency or because the vehicle is disabled due to
mechanical failure.
   TOWN MANAGER.  The Town Manager or his or her designee who are instructed to
perform the function assigned by this Title VII to the Town Manager. Whenever
this title authorizes or requires the Town Manager to install a traffic control
device controlling parking or regulating the movement of traffic on, to or from
a state highway system street and the installation of such a device is in
practice a function of the State Department of Transportation, the Town Manager
may discharge that responsibility by requesting the State Department of
Transportation to install such a device.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.  Any sign, signal, marking or other device placed or
erected pursuant to a lawful ordinance and designed to control, regulate, warn
and guide traffic.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks, provided that for the purposes of
this Title VII bicycles shall be deemed vehicles and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this Title VII applicable
to the driver of a vehicle except those which by their nature have no
application.
(Ord. 1-3-2011)
§ 70.02 TURNING REGULATED.
   (A)   Whenever appropriate traffic control devices are installed that
clearly indicate that right or left turns, U-turns or all turns are prohibited
or required from a particular lane of traffic, no person may drive any vehicle
contrary to the directions of any traffic control device so installed.
   (B)   The following restrictions on turning shall henceforth be in effect at
the indicated locations and the Town Manager shall install appropriate traffic
control devices that clearly and adequately notify drivers of the turns
required or prohibited:
      (1)   No U-turns;
      (2)   No left turn:
      (3)   Left turn only from left lane of;
      (4)   Right turn only from right lane of.
(Ord. 1-3-2011)
§ 70.03 UNLAWFUL PASSING.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, appropriate traffic control
devices have been installed that clearly indicate that no passing is allowed on
a portion of any street, no driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another
on any portion of any street so restricted. (Note: G.S. § 20-150(e) makes it
unlawful to pass contrary to signs posted by the State Department of
Transportation.)
   (B)   The town may install appropriate traffic control devices to indicate
that no passing is allowed whenever and wherever it determines that passing
would be unsafe on that portion of a street because:
      (1)   The street intersects with another street;
      (2)   The slope or grade of the street is such or the street curves to
such an extent that a driver’s view is obstructed within a distance of 500
feet; and/or
      (3)   Any other conditions exist making passing hazardous.
(Ord. 1-3-2011)
§ 70.04 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person riding a bicycle, coaster, toy vehicle, sled, skis or
similar devices may attach himself or herself or the vehicle or device to any
moving motor vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a bicycle or motorcycle, when upon the street, may not
carry any other person upon the handle bars, the back or any other part of a
motorcycle or bicycle not designed for carrying passengers.
(Ord. 1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking prohibited in certain locations
   
71.02   Vehicles creating a hazard
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any of the
following locations:
      (1)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162 in front of a private driveway;
      (2)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162 within seven feet in either direction
of a fire hydrant, or the entrance to a fire station;
      (3)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162 within 15 feet of the intersection of
property lines at an intersection of streets;
      (4)   In any portion of a street or highway intended to carry traffic;
      (5)   On the road side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge of a street (double parking);
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
parking or standing would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   In any parking clearly marked as reserved for the handicapped
whether on public or private property, unless the driver of, or passenger in,
the vehicle is handicapped;
      (8)   On any area of any street where “No Parking” signs have been
installed;
      (9)   Within the town’s right-of-way for a continuous period of 24 hours;
      (10)   On a sidewalk;
      (11)   On a crosswalk, or within seven feet of a crosswalk;
      (12)   In front of the entrance to an alleyway and/or within the
alleyway;
      (13)   Between the curb and the sidewalk;
      (14)   On town property, unless parking is expressly permitted;
      (15)   On town property for the purpose of conducting a trade or
business; and
      (16)   In a loading zone, unless the vehicle is in the process of loading
or unloading goods.
   (B)   All construction personnel and service employees who are engaged in
performing work within the town may park their vehicles on the street rights-
of-way only when the parked vehicles do not interfere with or obstruct the flow
of traffic.
   (C)   Any vehicle disabled due to mechanical failure which does not
necessarily create a public safety hazard must be removed within a 24-hour
period.
   (D)   No agent or employee of the town, no person or occupant of the
premises from which any derelict or abandoned vehicle shall be removed, nor any
person or firm contracting for the removal of or disposition of any vehicle
shall be held criminally or civilly liable in any way arising out of or caused
by carrying out or enforcing any provisions of Title VII.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 71.02 VEHICLES CREATING A HAZARD.
   Any vehicle creating a public safety hazard for any reason, including as a
result of having been parked in any of the locations set forth in §
71.01 above, may be removed.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   One-way roads
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS
   (A)   The streets listed below are hereby designated as main traveled or
through streets, and the Town Manager shall erect stop signs on the first
street at the entrance to the main traveled or through street. The effect of
the stop signs on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-
158 and 20-172.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen finds that a particular hazard exists at the
location below and the Town Manager is hereby directed to erect a stop sign at
the location indicated. The effect of the stop signs on vehicles and
pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
Stop sign location Direction Date added
Stop sign location                Direction     Date added
E. Ashe St. at Backstreet                      1-3-11
W. Ashe St. at Backstreet                      1-3-11
E. Ashe St. at Jefferson Ave.     Four way stop 11-7-11
W. Ashe St. at Jefferson Ave.     Four way stop 11-7-11
Backstreet at Long St.                         1-3-11
Backstreet at W. State St.        North         1-3-11
Backstreet at W. State St.        South         1-3-11
Bare St. at S. Church Ave.                     1-3-11
Barnett St. at E. Buck Mtn. Rd.                1-3-11
Barnett St. at Ford St.           West          1-3-11
Burkett Ave. at School Ave.                    1-3-11
Calvin Ave. at Locust St.                      1-3-11
Calvin Ave. at Long St.                        1-3-11
Cherry Dr. at E. Fifth St.                     1-3-11
Cherry Dr. at E. Seventh St.                   1-3-11
S. Church Ave. at Long St.                     1-3-11
Clearwater Dr. at Bus. Hwy. 221                1-3-11
Crescent Dr. at Crescent Ln.                   1-3-11
Dyke St. at Hice Ave.                          1-3-11
Fairview Dr. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
E. Fifth St. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
N. Fifth Ave. at Second St.                    1-3-11
W. First St. at Backstreet                     1-3-11
W. First St. at N. Church Ave.                 1-3-11
W. First St. at College Ave.      North         1-3-11
W. First St. at College Ave.      South         1-3-11
E. First St. at N. Fifth Ave.                  1-3-11
E. First St. at N. Sixth St.                   1-3-11
E. First St. at N. Third Ave.     North         1-3-11
E. First St. at N. Third Ave.     South         1-3-11
W. First St. at Wilton Ave.                    1-3-11
Ford St. at E. Buck Mtn. Rd.                   1-3-11
Ford St. at Mountain Ave.         East          1-3-11
Ford St. at Mountain Ave.         West          1-3-11
Ford St. at Oak Ave.                           1-3-11
Ford St. at Ridegcrest Ave.       East          1-3-11
Ford St. at Ridgecrest Ave.       West          1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at N. Church Ave.   East          1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at N. Church Ave.   West          1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at College Ave.     East          1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at College Ave.     West          1-3-11
E. Fourth St. at Jefferson Ave.                1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at Jefferson Ave.                1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at Wilton Ave.      East          1-3-11
W. Fourth St. at Wilton Ave.      West          1-3-11
Gambill Dr. at E. Fifth St.                    1-3-11
Graybeal Ave. at Long St.                      1-3-11
Green Briar Dr. at Water Tank St.              1-3-11
Hamilton Dr. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
Hice Ave. at School Ave.                       1-3-11
Hillcrest Dr. at Kelly Dr.                     1-3-11
Kelly Dr. at Jefferson Ave.                    1-3-11
Lewis Dr. at Green Briar Dr.                   1-3-11
Locust St. at E. Buck Mtn. Rd.                 1-3-11
Locust St. at Mountain Ave.       North         1-3-11
Locust St. at Mountain Ave.       South         1-3-11
Long St. at Jefferson Ave.                     1-3-11
W. Main St. at Backstreet         North         1-3-11
W. Main St. at Backstreet         South         1-3-11
W. Main St. at N. Church Ave.     North         1-3-11
W. Main St. at N. Church Ave.     South         1-3-11
W. Main St. at College Ave.                    1-3-11
E. Main St. at Jefferson Ave.     Four way stop 11-7-11
W. Main St. at Jefferson Ave.     Four way stop 11-7-11
E. Main St. at N. Third Ave.                   1-3-11
E. Main St. at S. Third Ave.                   1-3-11
Market St. at Backstreet                       1-3-11
Mountain Ave. at Barnett St.      North         1-3-11
Mountain Ave. at Long St.                      1-3-11
Oak Ave. at Ford St.                           1-3-11
Oak Ave. at Locust St.                         1-3-11
Oak St. at Spring Dr.                          1-3-11
Park Rd. at S. Church Ave.                     1-3-11
Pear Dr. at Jefferson Ave.                     1-3-11
Pine Dr. at E. Fifth St.                       1-3-11
Poplar Ave. at Long St.                        1-3-11
Ridge Ave. at Jefferson Ave.                   1-3-11
Ridgecrest Ave. at Barnett St.                 1-3-11
Ridgecrest Ave. at Locust St.     East          1-3-11
Ridgecrest Ave. at Locust St.     West          1-3-11
Ridgecrest Ave. at Long St.                    1-3-11
W. Second St. at Backstreet                    1-3-11
W. Second St. at College Ave.     North         1-3-11
W. Second St. at College Ave.     South         1-3-11
E. Second St. at Jefferson Ave.   Four way stop 6-6-16
W. Second St. at Jefferson Ave.   Four way stop 6-6-16
W. Second St. at N. Church Ave.   North         1-3-11
W. Second St. at N. Church Ave.   South         1-3-11
W. Second St. at Wilton Ave.      North         1-3-11
W. Second St. at Wilton Ave.      South         1-3-11
E. Seventh St. at Jefferson Ave.               1-3-11
W. Seventh St. at Jefferson Ave.               1-3-11
E. Sixth St. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
W. Sixth St. and Jefferson Ave.                1-3-11
Spring Dr. at Bare Ave.                        1-3-11
W. State St. at Backstreet                     1-3-11
E. State St. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
W. State St. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
Sunset Dr. at E. Fifth St.                     1-3-11
Terrace Ave. at Terrace St.                    1-3-11
N. Third Ave. at Second St.                    1-3-11
W. Third St. at N. Church Ave.    East          1-3-11
W. Third St. at College Ave.      East          1-3-11
W. Third St. at College Ave.      West          1-3-11
W. Third St. at Jefferson Ave.                 1-3-11
W. Third. St. at Wilton Ave.      East          1-3-11
W. Third. St. at Wilton Ave.      West          1-3-11
Vista Dr. at Jefferson Ave.                    1-3-11
Woodie Ave. at Locust St.                      1-3-11
Woodie Ave. at Long St.                        1-3-11
 
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS
   (A)   The town speed limit is 35 mph except where posted on state roads and
as listed in division (B) below.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-141(e), a maximum speed limit of 20 mph is
hereby established on the following town streets:
      (1)   Ridge Avenue;
      (2)   N. Church Avenue;
      (3)   S. Church Avenue;
      (4)   College Avenue;
      (5)   W. Second Street;
      (6)   E. Second Street;
      (7)   Backstreet;
      (8)   W. Third Street;
      (9)   W. Fourth Street;
      (10)   Wilton Avenue;
      (11)   N. Main Street;
      (12)   Long Street;
      (13)   Ridgecrest Avenue;
      (14)   Mountain Avenue;
      (15)   Locust Street;
      (16)   Ford Street;
      (17)   Barnett Street;
      (18)   Hice Avenue;
      (19)   Woodie Avenue; and
      (20)   Oak Avenue
   (C)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-141.1, a school speed limit zone is established
on School Avenue for the section of the street from approximately 120 feet
northwest of Hice Avenue to 30 feet southeast of Burkett Avenue. The maximum
speed limit for this section shall be 20 mph, and shall be in effect when
school is in session from 7:15 a.m. until 8:15 a.m., and 2:15 p.m. until 3:15
p.m.
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating any of the above designated speed
limits in the designated speed zones shall be punished as provided for in the
general statutes.
(Ord. passed 7-20-1972; Ord. passed 5-3-1984; Ord. passed 4-4-1985; Ord. passed
8-7-2008; Ord. passed 9-9-2008; Ord. passed 11-6-2008; Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY ROADS
   (A)   Whenever a street is designated a one-way street and traffic control
devices are installed in accordance with division (B) below, no person may
drive any vehicle on that street except in the direction indicated by the
traffic control devices. (Note: G.S. § 20-165.1 makes it unlawful to drive
contrary to a sign erected by the State Department of Transportation.)
   (B)   First Street from Jefferson Avenue east to Third Avenue is limited to
one-way vehicular traffic going east. No person shall operate a motor vehicle
over the portion of First Street except in an easterly direction.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1966; Ord. passed 11-6-1969; Ord. passed 11-5-1970; Ord.
passed 1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Designated parking
SCHEDULE I. DESIGNATED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, on the south side of First Street from
Jefferson Avenue eastward to the first alley.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, on the north side of First Street from Third Avenue to
the first alley west.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any unattended vehicle
between the two posted no parking signs on the west side of Third Avenue.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, upon or within any alley in the town, except
for the necessary purposes of loading and unloading, and then for no longer
time than is reasonably necessary to accomplish the loading or unloading. It
shall likewise be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, at any entrance or exit in or to any alley within the
town in a manner as to block the entrance or exit of any alley.
      (2)   The congestion of vehicular traffic upon those portions of the
public streets of the town hereinafter designated is such that public
convenience and safety demand that vehicular parking within the areas be
regulated and limited, and those portions of the streets of the town in which
the congestion exists to the extent that the regulation and limitation of
vehicular parking time are required, are the following:
         (a)   Jefferson Avenue extending from Second Street to Hice Avenue;
and
         (b)   Main Street extending from Backstreet to the railroad crossing
just east of the Ashe County Cheese Plant.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, on the south side of First Street from Jefferson Avenue
eastward to the first alley. It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, on the north side of First Street from
Third Avenue to the first alley west.
   (E)   It shall be lawful to park on West Second Street along the West
Jefferson Methodist Church during the following times: Sundays, between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., and on Wednesday nights, between the hours of
6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., provided:
      (1)   Parking is only allowed in parking spaces designated for
handicapped parking; and
      (2)   Only vehicles with a properly issued handicapped sticker may park
in such handicapped parking spaces.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1954; Ord. passed 11-3-1961; Ord. passed 2-2-1967; Ord. passed
7-2-1970; Ord. passed 4-1-1976; Ord. passed 1-3-2011; Ord. passed 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Prohibited acts
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of Title VII, the terms SKATE or SKATES shall include roller
skates, coasters, skateboards, or other similar devices.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1996; Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 74.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual, child or adult, to use a skate or
skates on the sidewalks or on town-owned property within the town limits at any
time.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1996; Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 75: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
75.01   Impoundment of vehicle
   
75.02   Civil penalties
   
75.03   Criminal penalties
§ 75.01 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street to a garage or other place of safety, or to a garage
designated or maintained by the Police Department or by the town under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended on any street and the vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic, or the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are,
by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody and removal;
      (3)   When a vehicle is found being operated upon the streets and is not
in proper condition;
      (4)   When a vehicle is left unattended on a street and is parked
illegally so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of
traffic;
      (5)   When the driver of the vehicle is taken into custody by the Police
Department or other law enforcement officers of this state, and the vehicle
would be left unattended on a street;
      (6)   When removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of fire, flood, storm, snow, or other emergency;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended or parked upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in charge;
      (8)   If the vehicle has been involved in a hit and run accident;
      (9)   If the vehicle was the subject of theft;
      (10)   If the vehicle was being used in the commission of a felony;
      (11)   If a driver was operating the vehicle without a license, or was
under the influence of intoxicating liquors or narcotics; and/or
      (12)   If the vehicle is improperly registered or if financial
responsibility has not been maintained.
   (B)   No vehicle impounded in an authorized garage as herein provided shall
be released until the charges for towing the vehicle into the garage and
storage charges have been paid.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street and the officer
knows or is able to ascertain the name and address of the owner, the officer
shall give or cause to be given a notice, written or verbal, to the owner or
person in charge of the vehicle of the fact of the removal, and the reasons
therefore, and the place to which the vehicle has been removed.
   (D)   Procedures for the removal, storage and disposal of abandoned and
junked motor vehicles set forth in §
90.05 through 90.09 of this Code of Ordinances shall apply to vehicles towed
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
§ 75.02 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   General.  In addition to the criminal penalties and other sanctions
provided in the North Carolina General Statutes, any violation of any provision
of Title VII, except for
Chapter 72, may also subject the offender to those civil penalties hereinafter
enumerated. Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil action in
the nature of a debt or may be collected in such other amounts as prescribed
herein within the prescribed time following the issuance of notice of citation
for the violation.
   (B)   Notice to be affixed.  Whenever a member of the Police Department or
other person authorized to enforce the provisions of Title VII regulating the
parking of vehicles shall find that any of those provisions are being, or have
been, violated by the owner or operator of the vehicle, the officer or person
shall notify the owner or operator of the vehicle of the violation by
conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a parking violation notice or citation
in such form as the Town Manager or his or her designee may direct.
   (C)   Contents.  The parking violation or citation shall, among other
things: state upon its face the amount of the penalty for the specific
violation if the penalty is paid within 30 days from and after the violation;
notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within the prescribed
time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature of a debt for
the stated penalty plus an additional penalty in the amount of $25, further
provide the offender may answer the town parking citation by mailing the
citation and stated penalty to the Town Hall, West Jefferson, NC, or may pay
the amount at the Town Hall, and that upon payment, the case or claim in right
of action by the town will be deemed compromised and settled, and that the
penalty must be either paid or the failure to pay must be cleared with the Town
Manager or his or her designee within 30 days of issuance of the citation. The
notice shall further state that if the parking violation citation is not
cleared within 30 days, court action by the filing of a civil complaint for
collection of the penalty may be taken. As used upon the parking citation, the
word CLEARED shall mean either: payment, arrangement for payment to be made, or
a prima facie showing that the parking citation was received as a result of
mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.
   (D)   Statement of claim.  The Town Manager or his or her designee is
authorized to accept payments in full and final settlement of the claim or
claims, right or rights of action which the town may have to enforce the
penalty by civil action in the nature of a debt. Acceptance of a penalty shall
be deemed a full and final release of any and all claims, or right of action
arising out of the contended violations.
   (E)   Penalties.  A civil penalty in the amount of $25 shall be imposed for
any violation of any provisions of Title VII, except for
Chapter 72, which shall be due and payable to the town within 30 days after the
issuance of the citation.
   (F)   Additional penalty.  An additional penalty of $25 shall apply in those
cases in which the penalty described above has not been paid within 45 days
after the issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Other remedies.  Any vehicle in violation of §
71.01 may be towed away. In those cases in which a vehicle is towed away
pursuant to this section, the owner or operator of the vehicle shall be
responsible for paying the cost of towing and storing the vehicle.
   (H)   Penalties to General Fund.  All penalties paid to the town or as may
be recovered in the civil action in the nature of a debt as herein provided
shall be paid into the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011; Ord. passed 3-7-2011)
§ 75.03 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of
Chapter 72 shall be punishable as provided for in the North Carolina General
Statutes.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 76: BICYCLE AND SKATEBOARD SAFETY
Section
   
76.01   Special provisions for motorized and non-motorized wheeled vehicles,
including bicycles, skateboards and the like
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR MOTORIZED AND NON-MOTORIZED WHEELED VEHICLES,
INCLUDING BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Skateboards, skates, and similar devices. The following provisions
govern the operation of non-motorized vehicles other than bicycles, including
but not limited to roller skates, in-line skates, skateboards, coasters,
scooters, and toy vehicles (collectively referred to hereafter as “skating
device”) on any public right-of-way or on any property open to the public or
used by the public for pedestrian or vehicular purpose:
      (1)   No person may ride a skating device in the park or upon any
roadway, except while crossing a street at a crosswalk, except that a person
may ride upon a roadway upon all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The roadway has a posted speed limit of 20 mph or less;
         (b)   The road is not a through street; and
         (c)   The rider yields to all vehicular traffic and pedestrians.
      (2)   No person riding a skating device may attach himself or herself or
the skating device to any moving motor vehicle.
      (3)   A person may ride a skating device upon a sidewalk only upon the
following conditions:
         (a)   The rider must yield to all pedestrians. Pedestrians shall at
all times have the right-of-way upon a sidewalk. In the case of any doubt of
safe and untouched passage by a pedestrian, a person riding a skating device
shall stop or dismount such device until the pedestrian passes.
         (b)   Riding a skating device is prohibited on the sidewalks adjacent
to:
            1.   Jefferson Avenue from Long Street to E Second Street.
            2.   Main Street from Backstreet to the intersection of School
Avenue and N Sixth Avenue.
            3.   E Second Street from Wilton Avenue to N Sixth Avenue.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2025) Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code of ordinances shall subject the offender to a civil penalty (see
civil penalties below), to be recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued
written notice of the violation which must be paid within 30 days after a
receipt of the notice. If the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days,
the town may recover such penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in
a civil action.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all ordinances may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (E)   Civil penalties. A violation of this chapter shall subject the
violator to an initial civil penalty in the amount of $200; provided, that
subsequent violations within any 12-month rolling period shall subject the
violator to the following civil penalties: a second violation in any rolling
12-month period shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of
$200, and a third and any subsequent violation in any rolling 12-month period
shall result in the assessment of a $500 civil penalty and confiscation of the
motorized and non-motorized wheeled vehicle.
   (F)   Criminal penalties. A person committing more than two violations of
this chapter during any rolling 12-month period shall also be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500, in addition to the civil
penalties imposed.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2025)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   CEMETERIES
         
93.   NOISE
         
94.   NUISANCES
         
95.   TOBACCO
         
96.   DOG CONTROL
         
97.   PEDDLERS/ITINERANT MERCHANTS
         
98.   DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
         
99.   OUTDOOR DINING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Exceptions from application
   
90.04   Regulations
   
90.05   Pre-towing notice requirements; exceptions
   
90.06   Post-towing requirements
   
90.07   Right to hearing
   
90.08   Redemption of removed vehicle
   
90.09   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.10   Conditions on removal from private property
   
90.11   Protection against liability
   
90.12   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303(b)(1), a
vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department, the
Town Manager, or designee of the Board of Aldermen, respectively, designated to
authorize the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303(b)(2), a
vehicle that does not lawfully display a current license plate, and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100;
or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. Vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, or a public nuisance, or
unlawful, including a vehicle found to:
      (1)   Be a breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests;
      (2)   Be a point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
over eight inches in height;
      (3)   Be a point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   Be a point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor or visible presence;
      (5)   Have areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as trunks, hoods, passenger interior, other interior sections, and the
like;
      (6)   Be situated or located so there is a danger of its falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Be a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or
any other rotten matter of any kind;
      (8)   Have sharp parts which are jagged or contain sharp edges of metal
or glass; or
      (9)   Be any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the Board of Aldermen or authorizing official.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE.
   As authorized by G.S. § 160A-303, the town may regulate, restrain, or
prohibit the abandonment of junked motor vehicles on public grounds and on
private property within the town's jurisdiction upon a finding that the
regulation, restraint, or prohibition is necessary and desirable to promote or
enhance community, neighborhood or area appearance, and may enforce any
regulation by removing or disposing of junked motor vehicles according to the
procedures prescribed in this chapter. The authority granted by this chapter
shall be supplemental to any other authority exercised by the town. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to authorize the town to require the removal or
disposal of a motor vehicle kept or stored at a bona fide automobile graveyard
or junkyard as defined in G.S. § 136-143.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS FROM APPLICATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle regulated under G.S. §
160A-303 which is kept or stored at a bona fide automobile graveyard or
junkyard as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control
Act, G.S. Ch. 136, Art. 12, or the removing or disposing of any motor vehicle
that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use, or a vehicle
regulated under G.S. § 160A-303 which is in an enclosed building or any vehicle
on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful place and
manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the enterprise, or to
any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of junkyard, see G.S. § 136-143
   Junkyard Control Act, see G.S. Ch. 136, Art. 12
§ 90.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (D)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
above, and order the vehicle removed.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (F)   Subject to the provisions of division (G) below, upon investigation,
the authorizing official may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as
defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of
removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood, or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (G)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or building
structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle
(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A GARAGE OR
BUILDING STRUCTURE means one which is erected pursuant to the lawful issuance
of a zoning permit and a building permit which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (D) below, an abandoned, nuisance or
junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be towed only after notice to the
registered owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case
of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing
addresses of the registered owner, or person entitled to the possession of the
vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which the
vehicle is located, can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
notice shall be given by first class mail, or any other method authorized for
service by state Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If the
names and addresses cannot be ascertained, notice shall be given by affixing on
the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed. The notice shall state that
the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than
seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved
by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (C)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal
shall be made to the Board of Aldermen in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Aldermen, and further proceedings to remove
the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (D)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. The findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the Authorizing Official in the appropriate
daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior
notice include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. The Board of Aldermen hereby
determines that immediate removal of vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. Abandoned or nuisance
vehicles left on town-owned property other than streets and highways, and on
private property, may be removed without giving prior notice only in those
circumstances where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt
action to protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare. By way of
illustration and not of limitation, the circumstances include vehicles blocking
or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and residences, vehicles parked
in a location or manner so as to pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing
damage to public or private property.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.06 POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the
services for the town. Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether the owner is reached by telephone, written notice,
including the information set forth in division (A) above, shall also be mailed
to the registered owner's last known address, unless this notice is waived in
writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
Authorizing Official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in division
(A) above.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.07 RIGHT TO HEARING.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated in G.S. § 20-219.11(c) to receive the hearing requests.
The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the request,
and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §
20-219.11 as amended.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.08 REDEMPTION OF REMOVED VEHICLE.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.09 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1, except no probable cause hearing in
addition to the hearing provided for in §
90.08 is required.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Disposal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle, by tow truck
operator or towing business, see G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1
§ 90.10 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant, or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the authorizing official. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense, or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.11 PROTECTION AGAINST LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006)
§ 90.12 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this Code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
91.01   Property numbering
   
91.02   Street name designations
§ 91.01 PROPERTY NUMBERING.
   (A)   The property numbering map entitled "Property Numbering Map, dated
September 7, 1978, Town of West Jefferson, N.C.", is hereby adopted as the
official property numbering map of the town, and all property numbers assigned
shall be assigned in accordance with the numbering map and no other property
numbers shall be used or displayed in the town except numbers assigned in
accordance with the official numbering map. The property numbering map shall be
kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   On the property numbering map, Main Street is hereby designated as the
north-south axis and Jefferson Avenue is hereby designated as the east-west
axis, and all avenues, drives, and alleys running generally north and south
shall be numbered from the east-west axis consecutively to the corporate limits
of the extremity of the avenue, alley, or street. Streets or alleys running
generally east and west shall be numbered from the north-south axis in the same
manner. Wherever possible, 100 numbers shall be allowed to each block so that
the number of each consecutive block shall commence with consecutive hundreds
and one.
   (C)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 50 feet of ground whether
improved property or vacant lot on every street within the corporate limits.
Odd numbers shall be assigned to the west side of the street on all north-south
streets and even numbers on the east side. On east-west streets, odd numbers
shall be assigned to the north side of the street and even numbers to the south
side.
   (D)   Every property owner of improved property shall, on or before the July
1, 1979, purchase and display in a conspicuous place on the property the number
assigned, which shall be of a type approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (E)   All residence and business buildings erected after the adoption of
this chapter shall be assigned a number in accordance with the property
numbering map and shall purchase and display the number as provided in division
(D) above.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface, or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this chapter, except for
repair or replacement of the number.
(Ord. passed 11-2-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 STREET NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Prefixes for the following named streets or parts thereof are hereby
designated as follows:
      (1)   The portion of the avenues named below and lying north of Main
Street are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix North, and the portion
of the avenues named below and lying south of Main Street are hereby designated
or renamed South:
         (a)   N. Jefferson Avenue;
         (b)   Backstreet, N.;
         (c)   Third Avenue, N.;
         (d)   Fourth Avenue, N.;
         (e)   N. Church Avenue;
         (f)   S. Jefferson Avenue;
         (g)   Backstreet, S.;
         (h)   Third Avenue, S.;
         (i)   Fourth Avenue, S.; and
         (j)   S. Church Avenue.
      (2)   The portion of the streets or parts thereof named below and lying
east of Jefferson Avenue are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix East,
and that portion of the streets or parts thereof named below and lying west of
Jefferson Avenue are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix West.
         (a)   E. Ashe Street;
         (b)   E. State Street;
         (c)   E. Main Street;
         (d)   E. First Street;
         (e)   E. Second Street;
         (f)   E. Fourth Street;
         (g)   E. Fifth Street;
         (h)   E. Sixth Street;
         (i)   E. Seventh Street;
         (j)   W. Ashe Street;
         (k)   W. State Street;
         (l)   W. Main Street;
         (m)   W. First Street;
         (n)   W. Second Street;
         (o)   W. Third Street;
         (p)   W. Fourth Street;
         (q)   W. Sixth Street; and
         (r)   W. Seventh Street.
   (B)   So as to facilitate the understanding of the street designation
system, all public streets designated or renamed herein running in a north-
south direction shall be called Avenues or Drives as appropriate, and those
running in an east-west direction shall be called Streets.
   (C)   From and after the effective date of this section, all public streets
designated or renamed herein shall have and shall be known by the prefix and
the name as provided for in this section.
   (D)   All official street maps of the town shall be corrected to show the
designated street names as provided for by this section, and a copy of the
ordinance codified herein shall be filed with the Register of Deeds of the
county.
(Ord. passed 11-2-1978)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Markers
   
92.02   Replacement of turf
   
92.03   Cemetery policy
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 MARKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or cause
to be erected any marker (excepting headstones and their foundation bases only)
within the town cemetery, the top of which is above ground level.
(Ord. passed 10-6-1966) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 REPLACEMENT OF TURF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation in the digging of
places of interment in the town cemetery to fail to replace upon the grave site
itself the turf which was originally dug for the place of interment.
(Ord. passed 10-6-1966) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CEMETERY POLICY.
   (A)   Purchase of cemetery plot(s).
      (1)   Plots in the cemetery shall only be sold to citizens and former
citizens of the municipality, and shall be for their use and the use of their
immediate families. IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall be defined as spouse, children,
stepchildren, parent or legal guardian, stepfather, stepmother, brother,
sister, stepbrother, stepsister, grandparents and grandchildren.
      (2)   Before any cemetery plots are sold, approval must be given by the
Board of Aldermen. No person shall be entitled to purchase more than four town
cemetery plots, except where there are unusual and extraordinary circumstances,
and after he or she has received the specific approval of the Board of
Aldermen.
      (3)   The Town Clerk shall be responsible for keeping and maintaining
accurate records of the owners of each cemetery lot(s) sold, as well as the
name(s) of each particular space(s) where each person(s) is buried.
      (4)   There shall be maintained in the Town Clerk’s office an official
cemetery map, which shall depict, as accurately as possible, the boundaries of
the town cemetery, and the location and dimensions of all lots within the
cemetery. Burial rights in all lots shall be sold in reference to the official
cemetery map.
      (5)   Prices for the town cemetery plots shall be determined from time to
time by the Board of Aldermen as it deems appropriate. As of March 2, 2015, the
price per plot is $500.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Plots will be deeded to the purchaser who will assume
responsibility for the plots purchased.
      (2)   Upon purchase, the Town Clerk shall cause the deed to be executed
by the town, registered in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and
subsequently delivered to the purchaser. A copy of the deed shall also be kept
by the Town Clerk.
      (3)   Deed-recording costs, as set by the office of County Register of
Deeds office, will be paid by the purchaser at the same time the cemetery plot
(s) is purchased.
   (C)   Grave liners. Vaults or lining are required for all burials in the
West Jefferson Municipal Cemetery.
   (D)   Rights of the cemetery plot owner.
      (1)   Each deed issued shall contain a clause stating that the plots may
not be sold nor transferred to a second party, except in the event of an estate
settlement, where the receiving party or parties shall also be members of the
immediate family of the deceased owner.
      (2)   Upon the death of the owner of the cemetery plot(s), all rights to
the cemetery plot(s) shall pass to the owner’s heirs in accordance with the
probated will or other applicable state law.
      (3)   The ashes of more than one deceased person may be buried in a
single cemetery plot.
   (E)   Disruptive activity prohibited.
      (1)   No person may drive any motor vehicle of any kind in the cemetery,
except upon the main roads provided therein for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   No person shall park, or cause to remain parked, any vehicle within
the cemetery, unless engaged in attendance at a burial service or otherwise
engaged in activities that call for the presence of the vehicle within the
cemetery.
      (3)   No person may take any dog, horse or other animal into any
cemetery, or allow any animal to run at large therein.
   (F)   Monuments.
      (1)   The location of all monuments must be approved in advance by the
town.
      (2)   Footstones must be a minimum of eight feet from the headstone, and
their location must be approved in advance by the town.
   (G)   Trees, shrubs, other plants, floral arrangements.  
      (1)   No trees, shrubs or plants shall be planted in, pruned or removed
from the cemetery without the consent and written approval of the Town Manager
or the Maintenance Supervisor.
      (2)   The Town Manager or the Maintenance Supervisor shall have authority
to prune, remove or transplant any tree, shrub, plant or other growth necessary
for the general beauty, welfare and best interest of the cemetery.
   (H)   Repurchase of lots. Upon the request of the lot owner, and the
approval of the Board of Aldermen, the town may repurchase cemetery plots at a
price it deems appropriate.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: NOISE
Section
   
93.01   Unreasonable, disturbing noise prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 UNREASONABLE, DISTURBING NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, or assist in creating,
permit, continue, or permit the continuance of, any unreasonably loud,
disturbing noise in the town. Noise of the character, intensity, and duration
as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall not be deemed to
be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device, or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended, the creation by means of any such
signal devise of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, and the sounding of the
device for an unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire, or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loudspeaker, or any other instrument or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner as renders
a public nuisance;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded in a manner as to create loud grating, grinding, rattling
or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin to stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration, or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from
the Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days
or less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading of any vehicle, or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers, and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood, or anyone shouting
within the corporate limits so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show, sale, or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes, except where
specific license is received from the Board of Commissioners; and
      (17)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district, so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (18)   The use for any vehicle equipped with compression brakes
(sometimes referred to as “jake brakes”) to downshift and release the clutch to
utilize the vehicle’s engine to slow, except in case of emergency along
Jefferson Avenue. The burden in each case shall be upon the vehicle operator to
establish the existence of the emergency. This prohibition does not apply to
the operation of vehicles owned or leased by governmental entities, and which
are being operated within the scope and purpose of a governmental use.
      (19)   No owner shall permit a band or any type of music to be emitted
therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. so that the sound can
be heard from the exterior of said structure. Nor shall a band or any type of
music be played outdoors:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
         (b)   Within 150 feet of a church or funeral home which is to be
measured from the stage to the nearest corner of the church or funeral home
except between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday
night so long as no services are being held at the church or funeral home
during those hours.
         (c)   Unless prior approval has been given by the Town Board at the
regularly scheduled monthly meeting for a holiday weekend or special event.
Requests must be approved 30 days prior to the event with written request
submitted 10 days prior to the regularly monthly meeting. Holidays are to
include New Year's Eve, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1990; Ord. passed 12-2-2013; Ord. passed 1-5-2015; Ord.
passed 9-14-2020; Ord. passed 10-4-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noises, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this Code of West Jefferson Town Ordinances shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty (see civil penalties below), to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued written notice of the violation which must be paid
within 30 days after a receipt of said notice. If the violator does not pay the
penalty within 30 days, the town may recover such penalty, and all subsequently
accruing penalties, in a civil action.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all ordinances may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (E)   Civil penalties. A violation of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $100; provided, that subsequent
violations within any 12-month rolling period shall subject the violator to the
following civil penalties: a second violation in any rolling 12-month period
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $200, and a
third and any subsequent violation in any rolling 12-month period shall result
in the assessment of a $500 civil penalty.
   (F)   Criminal penalties. A person committing more than two violations of
this chapter during any rolling 12-month period shall also be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500, in addition to the civil
penalties imposed.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2021)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Policy
   
94.02   Severability
   
94.03   Effective date
   
94.04   Definitions
Solid Wastes
   
94.15   Accumulation of solid wastes
   
94.16   Dumping or littering on private property
   
94.17   Dumping or littering on streets, sidewalks and other public property
   
94.18   Transportation of solid waste within the town
Scrap Materials and Noxious Growth
   
94.30   Declaration of policy
   
94.31   Accumulating of scrap materials
Control of Other Nuisances
   
94.45   Neat and orderly construction site
   
94.46   Public nuisances
Enforcement
   
94.60   Investigation
   
94.61   Hearing
   
94.62   Order of abatement
   
94.63   Extension of time to perform
   
94.64   Removal of nuisance
   
94.65   Cost of removal charged to owner
   
94.66   Liens
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dogs as public nuisances, see §
96.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 POLICY.
   (A)   Burned out or incomplete structures, the uncontrolled growth of
noxious weeds and grass/the accumulation of offensive animal and vegetable
matter, and the accumulation of refuse cause or threaten to cause a nuisance
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health and safety.
   (B)   Nuisances harm the economy of the town.
   (C)   It is the intention of the Town Board to preserve the natural beauty
of the town, free from litter, waste, noxious growth and other nuisances so as
to protect property values and promote the tourist industry.
   (D)   The Town Board is authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-175, 160A-192,
and 160A-193 to abate nuisances.
(Ord. passed - - )
   (E)   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform
procedure within the town, to enforce G.S. § 160A-A3 and to establish
procedural and enforcement safeguards to ensure due process rights of owners
and occupants of property within the town while protecting visitors and
residents within the county from conditions that are dangerous or prejudicial
to public health or safety.
   (F)   This chapter specifies:
      (1)   The manner in which an owner or occupant of property in the town is
provided notice of a dangerous or prejudicial condition on their property;
      (2)   Directs the owner or occupant to remove, abate or remedy the
dangerous or prejudicial condition;
      (3)   Permits the owner or occupant a reasonable time for the dangerous
of prejudicial condition to be remedied; and
      (4)   Provides authority for the town to remove, abate or remedy the
condition should the owner or occupant fail to or refuse to act within a
reasonable time.
   (G)   Before the town takes action to remove, abate or remedy, the property
owner or occupant has:
      (1)   A right to appeal, offer evidence and confront the complaining
party; and
      (2)   A right of appeal to the General Court of Justice from a finding by
the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 160A-192 and 160A-193 were repealed by y Session Laws 1991, c. 698,
s. 1.
§ 94.02 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of this chapter is held to be invalid or unenforceable, all
other sections shall nevertheless continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the date of
its adoption.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT.
      (1)   The proper removal and/or containment of substances or materials
hazardous to humans and/or the environment.
      (2)   ABATEMENT is part of remediation.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The currently elected West Jefferson Board of
Aldermen and may be referred to as “the Board.”
   DEPARTMENT. The West Jefferson Town Planner and designees, responsible for
enforcing this chapter and may be referred to as “the Department.”
   GARBAGE. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including but not limited to animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   HEALTH AND SAFETY NUISANCE. Any act or condition that is dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or safety and shall include, but not be
limited to, conditions which pose an immediate and direct hazard to human
health if left unheeded due to the existence of the condition itself or due to
the immediate threat of transmission or infection resulting from the condition.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies improved or unimproved real property,
whether with or without any right, title or interest in the property, and any
person in possession or charge of such property, in the event the owner resides
or is located elsewhere.
   ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A town employee who is tasked with ordinance
compliance and who reports to the Planning Director.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, persons, organization, company or
corporation that owns improved or unimproved real property, in whole or in
part, including, but not limited to, the land, structure or other fixture
permanently attached to the real property or improvement.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. All property other than that defined in the definitions
of “property” and “real property, real estate and land” of this chapter and
that is subject to ownership.
   PROPERTY. Public alley or privately owned real property including parcels of
land, buildings or structures.
   REAL PROPERTY, REAL ESTATE, AND LAND. Not only the land itself, but also
buildings, structures, improvements, and permanent fixtures on the land, and
all rights and privileges belonging to or in any way appertaining to the
property.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes except garbage and solids that are dissolved or
suspended in domestic, commercial or industrial waste water effluent.
   SCRAP MATERIALS.
      (1)   Pieces or fragments of metal, wood, glass, masonry, plastic,
textiles, rope, leather, rubber, paper or any other substance that formerly
were part of the construction of some useful object or thing or that consist of
the excess resulting from the creation of some useful object or thing; or
      (2)   Objects or things, including but not limited to, machines, tools,
equipment, hardware, furniture, appliances, etcetera, or parts of the same that
are no longer in serviceable condition or are valuable only as raw material for
reprocessing; or
      (3)   BRUSH. Any cut weeds, grass, brushes, trees, stumps, branches, or
other plant materials, but that do not constitute solid wastes as herein
defined because they are or may be useful to or wanted by or have not been
discarded by the person in control of the premises where they have been
located.
   SOLID WASTES. Wastes that are nongaseous and non-liquid (except that liquid
wastes resulting from the processing of food are deemed solid wastes for the
purposes of this chapter).
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager or any other person designated by the Town
Manager to perform the functions and exercise the responsibilities assigned by
this chapter to the Town Manager.
   WASTES. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial or community activities.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
SOLID WASTES
§ 94.15 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES.
   No person may cause or permit solid wastes to accumulate or remain on
premises under his or her control except in an enclosed garbage container.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.16 DUMPING OR LITTERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation or organization may place,
discard, throw, drop or deposit or cause to be placed, discarded, thrown,
dropped or deposited any solid waste on any property not owned by him, her or
it without the consent of the owner, occupant or lessee thereof.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation, or organization may distribute,
place, discard, throw, drop or deposit or cause to be distributed, placed,
discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited flyers or other types of promotional
materials in such a manner that the flyers or promotional materials become
scattered about private property. In the event the flyers or promotional
materials become scattered about private property, the person, partnership,
corporation or organization that is responsible for or is benefitting from the
promotion shall be in violation of this section. Each individual flyer and each
individual promotional material that becomes scattered about as described above
shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 10-6-2014; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.17 DUMPING OR LITTERING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, or organization may distribute,
place, discard, throw, drop or deposit or cause to be distributed, placed,
discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any solid waste on any public street or
sidewalk within the town or on any property owned or operated by the town,
except in properly designated receptacles.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation, or organization may distribute,
place, discard, throw, drop or deposit or cause to be distributed, placed,
discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any flyer or other type of promotional
material in such a manner that the flyers or promotional materials become
scattered about any public street or sidewalk within the town or about any
property owned or operated by the town. In the event the flyers or promotional
materials become scattered about any public street or sidewalk or about any
property owned or operated by the town, the person, partnership, corporation or
organization that is responsible for or is benefitting from said promotion
shall be in violation of this section. Each individual flyer and each
individual promotional material that becomes scattered about as described above
shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town or upon private property.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Misdemeanor to place or leave any solid waste on the right of way of any
public street and authorizes a fine for violations, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 94.18 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE WITHIN THE TOWN.
   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid wastes on the
public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are so secured that no solid
wastes escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so
transported shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of
noxious odors or liquids.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
SCRAP MATERIALS AND NOXIOUS GROWTH
§ 94.30 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Board hereby declares that the uncontrolled accumulation of scrap
materials on any premises constitutes a danger to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town, in that such accumulations can furnish
shelter and breeding places for vermin, present physical dangers to the safety
and well-being of children and other citizens, pose a danger of fire, and
depreciate property values or cause a loss of business by detracting from the
appearance and character of residential and commercial neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.31 ACCUMULATING OF SCRAP MATERIALS.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit scrap materials to accumulate or
remain on premises under his or her control.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
CONTROL OF OTHER NUISANCES
§ 94.45 NEAT AND ORDERLY CONSTRUCTION SITE.
   (A)   Each contractor shall provide one porta-john and at least one six-
cubic yard dumpster located on the parking pad for trash at the building site
during the period of construction. The port-a-john shall be on the site prior
to the beginning of construction and the dumpster shall be in place prior to
the seal plate inspection.
   (B)   The contractor shall remove all trash and discarded materials from the
building site at least once per week so as to maintain a reasonably clean area
that would not be objectionable to the general public. All garbage, refuse,
scrap materials, waste and solid waste shall be removed from the building site
and surrounding area before the structure is occupied. The building site should
be cleaned up daily so as to prevent the accumulation of trash and other debris
and insure that the site is neat and orderly.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.46 PUBLIC NUISANCES; NOXIOUS GROWTH.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits of the town is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance:
   (A)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health.
   (B)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (C)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
water heater, building material, building rubbish or similar items.
   (D)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
   (E)   Any burned out structure.
   (F)   Any incomplete structure on which no work has been done for a period
of six months.
   (G)   Any other condition specifically declared to be a danger to the public
health, safety, and general welfare of inhabitants of the town.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
   (H)   No person may cause, suffer or permit on premises under his or her
control any growth of weeds, grasses or other plants or bushes that becomes or
threatens to become a fire hazard or a harboring place for rats, mice, snakes
or other vermin or otherwise poses a danger to the public health, or
depreciates property values or causes loss of business by detracting from the
appearance and character of residential and commercial neighborhoods. The
uncontrolled growth of weeds or grass should not exceed a height in excess of
12 inches.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.60 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall have the responsibility for enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Clerk, upon receipt of a complaint from any person of the
possible existence of any of the conditions described in §
94.46, or upon his or her own initiative, shall cause to be made investigations
as may be necessary to determine whether conditions exist which may constitute
a public nuisance as declared in §
94.46. The town shall have the authority to use a public or independent
inspector to conduct this investigation, which shall be at the expense of the
owner should violations be found.
(Ord. passed - - )
   (C)   The owner or occupant shall, upon the request of the Town Manager and
after proper identification, permit access to all parts of the site or
structure as necessary, and at any reasonable time for the purposes or
inspection, remediation and abatement of nuisance conditions, and shall exhibit
and allow copying of all records necessary to ascertain compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   If the occupant or owner will not permit entry upon the property, the
Town Clerk or Attorney shall complete the requirements of an administrative
search warrant in order to inspect the conditions.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk or Town Manager and the Town
Clerk or Town Manager shall have authority to determine whether a public health
or safety nuisance exists and if the owner or occupant shall be afforded the
privileges and prescriptions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.61 HEARING.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Town Clerk or Town Manager of: (1) a written
complaint; (2) an oral or anonymous complaint; or (3) observance of
circumstances by the Town Clerk or Town Manager that a condition exists that
may be dangerous or prejudicial to public health or safety, the notification
shall be forwarded to the Town Clerk or Town Manager. The complaint shall
identify the property location by street address or parcel identification
number, if possible. It shall further include information identifying the
nature of the public health or safety nuisance.
   (B)   Request to investigate. The Town Clerk or Town Manager investigates
and documents the conditions and formulates a written report including
photographs (if relevant), a description of conditions, and a recommendation on
whether further action is warranted. The investigation shall begin within 96
hours of receipt of the complaint.
   (C)   No action. If Town Clerk or Town Manager’s recommendation is “no
action,” the file will be closed and the complainant will receive written
notification of that fact.
   (D)   Further action. If the Town Clerk or Town Manager recommends further
action to remove, abate or remedy the dangerous or prejudicial conditions, the
Town Manager will schedule an on-site meeting with the Town Clerk to review the
conditions.
   (E)   Owner/occupant notification. If the Town Clerks concurs with the Town
Manager’s recommendation, the property owner and occupant shall receive: (1)
written notice that the conditions on the owner’s and occupant’s property have
been determined to be a public health or safety nuisance; and (2) an order to
remove, abate or remedy the nuisance.
      (1)   The notice and order shall be mailed by first class mail and by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the property address maintained by
the West Jefferson Tax Administrator which is presumed to be the owner’s
correct address. Additionally, the occupant shall be personally served with
notice and order by an officer authorized to serve a warrant as well as by
first class mail addressed to the occupant’s last known address. If the
occupant and owner are one and the same, only one notice and order shall be
mailed.
      (2)   The notice and order may be posted upon the property in a manner
permitted by law.
      (3)   The notice and order shall include the property address by street
location and parcel identification number, along with the nature of the public
health or safety nuisance existing upon or at the property.
      (4)   The notice and order shall direct the owner or occupant to remove,
abate or remedy the health or safety nuisance within a certain date, not to
exceed 30 days from the receipt of the notice, unless a shorter time is
required due to the Department’s further determination that imminent abatement
is necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (5)   The notice shall include the owner’s and occupant’s right of appeal
of the town’s finding that a public health or safety nuisance exists on their
property.
      (6)   The Town Clerk or Town Manager’s finding that a public health or
safety nuisance exists shall be appealable to the West Jefferson Board of
Adjustment by owner or occupant upon written notice to the Clerk and to the
Board, 1 S. Jefferson Avenue, PO Box 490, West Jefferson, NC 28694 within seven
days of notice and order.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.62 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist the Town Manager shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
premises in question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and
shall order the abatement thereof within 30 days from the receipt of such
written notice.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.63 EXTENSION OF TIME TO PERFORM.
   Upon timely written request and for good cause, the owner and occupant may
receive an extension of time to remedy the conditions. Any extension shall be
written and signed by Town Clerk or Town Manager, and shall designate a time
certain within which the nuisance conditions must be removed, remedied or
abated.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.64 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance, fails,
neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 30 days from receipt of the order, the town may cause the condition to
be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or the town’s
contractor go upon said premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance
under the supervision of a town employee. Any person who has been ordered to
abate a public nuisance may within the time allowed by this chapter request the
town in writing to remove the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the
person making the request. This section applies only to the removal of
nuisances which are in violation of §
94.46.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.65 COST OF REMOVAL CHARGED TO OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and
it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of such charges
to the owner or other person in possession of such premises with instructions
that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
This section applies only to the removal of nuisances which are in violation of
§
94.46.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
§ 94.66 LIENS.
   IIn the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
94.65, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193. This section applies only to the removal of nuisances which
are in violation of §
94.46.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-193 was repealed by Session Laws 1991, c. 698, s. 1.
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code of ordinances shall subject the offender to a civil penalty (see
civil penalties below), to be recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued
written notice of the violation which must be paid within 30 days after a
receipt of the notice. If the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days,
the town may recover such penalty, and all subsequently accruing penalties, in
a civil action.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all ordinances may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   If any division of this section is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other divisions shall nevertheless continue in full force
and effect.
   (E)   Civil penalties. A violation of this chapter shall subject the
violator to an initial civil penalty in the amount of $200 with an additional
$100 for each day’s continuing violation of any ordinance provision; provided,
that subsequent violations within any 12-month rolling period shall subject the
violator to the following civil penalties: a second violation in any rolling
12-month period shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of
$200 with an additional $100 for each day’s continuing violation of any
ordinance provision, and a third and any subsequent violation in any rolling
12-month period shall result in the assessment of a $500 civil penalty.
   (F)   Criminal penalties. A person committing more than two violations of
this chapter during any rolling 12-month period shall also be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500, in addition to the civil
penalties imposed.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 12-6-2021; Ord. passed 3-4-2024)
CHAPTER 95: TOBACCO
Section
   
95.01   Policy
   
95.02   Use not permitted on town grounds
   
95.03   Use permitted on town grounds
   
95.04   Special events
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POLICY.
   The town seeks to protect the health and well-being of its employees and
citizens. Since environmental tobacco smoke has been identified as potentially
carcinogenic and other forms of tobacco products have also been determined to
be detrimental to other health aspects, the town hereby establishes a policy to
regulate all tobacco products. This policy shall apply to all employees and
visitors on town property.
(Ord. passed 6-6-11)
§ 95.02 USE NOT PERMITTED ON TOWN GROUNDS.
   All tobacco products are prohibited from use within the playground and
shelter areas of Bowie-Segraves Memorial Park.
(Ord. passed 6-6-11)
§ 95.03 USE PERMITTED ON TOWN GROUNDS.
   All tobacco products are permitted for use within the designated area of
Bowie-Segraves Memorial Park.
(Ord. passed 6-6-11)
§ 95.04 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The Town Manager is empowered to prohibit tobacco at other facilities during
special events. The Town Manager shall have signs posted saying that tobacco is
prohibited at any event where he or she has banned tobacco.
(Ord. passed 6-6-11)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter by any person who shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued written notice of the violation which must be paid
within 30 days after receipt of the notice. If the violator does not pay the
penalty within 30 days, the town may recover the penalty and all subsequent
accruing penalties in a civil action. In the event that it is necessary for the
town to institute a civil action to collect the penalty, the violator shall be
responsible for all court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the town.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter by any town employee may also result in
disciplinary action being taken.
   (C)   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and a
distinct offense.
   (D)   This chapter may also be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 6-6-11)
CHAPTER 96: DOG CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Collar and identification
   
96.04   Nuisances prohibited
 
   
96.99   Enforcement
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-186, this chapter is
enacted to protect the public from unvaccinated, stray, roaming or dangerous
dogs, and to make unlawful acts of dogs that interfere with the enjoyment of
property or the peace and safety of the community.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG.  Both male and female members of the canine species.
   DOG AT LARGE.  Any dog that is:
      (1)   Off the promises of his or her owner; and
      (2)   Not on a leash; and
      (3)   Not under the control of his or her owner or custodian.
   IDENTIFIABLE DOG. Both male and female members of the canine species,
wearing a collar to which is affixed a metal tag bearing the owner’s name and
phone number, and an up-to-date metal rabies inoculation tag.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog.
   UNIDENTIFIABLE DOG.  Any dog:
      (1)   Without a collar; or
      (2)   With a collar but to which is not attached the valid metal tags
defined in IDENTIFIABLE DOG; or
      (3)   The owner or custodian of which cannot be found after reasonable
efforts by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.03 COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   All dogs over four months in age kept within the town for a period of
more than 30 days shall be properly identified by a collar, with a metal
registration tag and a veterinarian inoculation tag with year of inoculation
firmly affixed thereto.
   (B)   The dog so identified shall be classified as an IDENTIFIABLE DOG under
this chapter when and only when wearing the collar and tags.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.04 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or harbor a dog within the
corporate limits of the town that is a public nuisance. PUBLIC NUISANCE is
defined to be:
   (A)   Any dog found at large;
   (B)   Any dog that is off the premises of his or her owner, and that chases,
threatens, snaps at, barks at, and/or attacks a person or motor vehicle;
   (C)   Any dog that turns over a garbage container, or damages a garden
(flower or vegetable); and/or
   (D)   Any dog that excessively or continually barks while outdoors.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.99 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the owner of the dog to a
civil penalty in the amount of $100 to be recovered by the town.
   (B)   In the event that a violation of §
96.04 causes any type of physical injury to a person, the owner of the dog
causing the injury shall be subject to a civil penalty of $500 for each such
violation, instead of the $100 penalty, to be recovered by the town.
   (C)   Any dog that is off the premises of his or her owner, and that chases,
snaps at, barks at, or attacks a person, and that causes physical injury to a
person, more than once, shall be destroyed.
   (D)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (C) above, this chapter may be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issued from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2014)
CHAPTER 97: PEDDLERS/ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Selling on streets or sidewalks prohibited
   
97.04   Exceptions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-178, this chapter is
enacted to regulate the business activities of itinerant merchants and peddlers
within the Town of West Jefferson.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2016)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A person, other than a merchant with an established
retail store in the Town, who transports an inventory of goods to a building,
vacant lot, or other location in a town and who, at that location, offers the
goods for sale.
   PEDDLER. A person who travels from place to place with an inventory of
goods, who sells the goods at retail or offers the goods for sale at retail,
and who delivers the identical goods.
   SIDEWALK. All that area legally open to public use as a pedestrian public
way between the curb line and the legal building line of the abutting property.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2016)
§ 97.03 SELLING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to display or offer for sale any goods, merchandise or
any other tangible items on any street, sidewalk, town-owned parking spaces, or
public right-of-ways within the town. Goods, wares and merchandise shall
include but not be limited to fruits, vegetables, farm products, dairy
products, fish, game, poultry, meat, plants, flowers, appliances, wearing
apparel, jewelry, art work, cosmetics and beauty aids, health products,
medicines, household products or furnishings, and food, confections or drinks
of any kind, whether or not for immediate consumption.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2016)
§ 97.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmer’s market. The provisions of §
97.03 shall not apply to farmers or vendors at any farmer’s market sanctioned
by the town. All merchants must operate out of a building or shall be
associated with the Ashe County Farmer’s Market by paying membership fee to the
farmer’s market.
   (B)   Special events. The Town Board may designate an organization to
conduct a special event during which certain streets designated in said
authorization may be closed and certain public areas, parks and sidewalks in
said authorization may be utilized for the special event.
      (1)   The designated organization shall be responsible for the
administration and control of the event and only those participants
specifically authorized by the designated organization shall be entitled to
participate in the special event.
      (2)   No sale of goods or merchandise shall be permitted within the area
designated for the special event except as authorized by the designated
organization and subject to reasonable controls adopted by said organization or
the town.
      (3)   Any vendor at any special event who sells food or food products
subject to the regulation of the Ashe County Health Department shall comply
with any and all applicable regulations of the Ashe County Health Department.
      (4)   Special community events shall be designated by the Board of
Aldermen by resolution and the resolution shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Dates, times and the location for the special event.
         (b)   Designation of an organization administering and controlling the
event, if applicable.
         (c)   Activities that will be authorized on the public streets areas,
and rights-of-way.
   (C)   Existing businesses. Nothing herein shall in any way prohibit or
restrict any legally operated business located within the town from operating
its business on its property in its customary fashion, provided such business
does not interfere with any sidewalk, street or other public right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2016)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2016)
CHAPTER 98: DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Permit required
   
98.03   Permits; issuance, denial, and revocation
   
98.04   Acts prohibited
   
98.05   Interference with permitted activity prohibited
   
98.06   Picketing regulations
   
98.07   Parade and group demonstration regulations
   
98.08   Exceptions
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board of Alderman to adopt ordinances for the regulation and
use of streets, squares, parks, and other public property for the public
welfare, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Authority to provide for the regulation, diversion, and limitation of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic upon the public streets and sidewalks, see
G.S. § 160A-300
   General police powers of town, see G.S. § 160A-174
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. That portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to
assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, parks or other public grounds or
places.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the town unless a permit has been issued by the
town in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.03 PERMITS; ISSUANCE, DENIAL AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the Town Manager are authorized to issue
permits as required in the preceding section, and in the issuance thereof he or
she shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of a parade, picket line or group demonstration. An
application shall be on a form prescribed by the Chief and Town Manager, shall
be signed by the applicant or applicants, including the person or persons to be
in charge as mentioned in division (A)(4) of this section, and shall show the
proposed time, place, purpose and size of the parade, picket line or group
demonstration and whether or not any minors below the age of 18 years shall
participate;
      (2)   Refuse to issue a permit when the activity or purpose stated in the
application would violate any ordinance of the town or statute of the state or
the United States or when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and
present danger to the public health or safety or would hinder or prevent the
orderly movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, sidewalks
or public places in the town;
      (3)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18
years will be permitted to participate. The Chief shall pass upon whether or
not minors may participate, and shall base his or her determination upon
whether or not the purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be
detrimental to or endanger the health, safety or welfare of the minors, or will
interfere with their education;
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify, and the
permit shall designate, the person or persons in charge of the activity. This
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group
demonstration and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The
permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person;
      (5)   The permit may set the starting time, duration, route, speed of
travel and space between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or
group demonstration; may prescribe the portions or areas of streets, sidewalks
or other public places to be used; and may impose other reasonable requirements
as the Chief or Town Manager may prescribe for the control and free movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or for the health, safety and property rights
of the participants and the general public;
      (6)   Require that the application for permit shall contain other
pertinent information as the Chief or Town Manager reasonably may need in order
to determine the purposes and character of the activity for which the permit is
sought and whether the activity would or would not constitute a clear and
present danger to the public health or safety or hinder or prevent the orderly
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, sidewalks or public
places in the town; and
      (7)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following:
         (a)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from
other necessary duties;
         (b)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their
property; and/or
         (c)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, and will not prevent
normal police and fire protection to the public, and will not be likely to
cause injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to
create a public disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
   (B)   The Chief of Police or Town Manager shall revoke any permit granted
for a parade, picket line or group demonstration for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   The violation by any participant of any provision of this chapter;
and/or
      (2)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.04 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of any parade, picket line or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any vicious animal, whether leashed or
unleashed; and/or
   (C)   The carrying or displaying of any flag or emblem of any foreign state
or any foreign political party or other organization which is engaged in
hostilities against the armed forces of the United States.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.05 INTERFERENCE WITH PERMITTED ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06 PICKETING REGULATIONS.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done, provided that the words used are not derogatory or
defamatory in nature.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not be
allowed to walk more than five feet from curb line and shall be in continuous
motion.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and the use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.07 PARADE AND GROUP DEMONSTRATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the granting of a parade or group demonstration permit, and
as a condition precedent to the granting of either permit, the Chief of Police
or the Town Manager may require that the person named in the application as the
one to be in charge of the parade or group demonstration shall give good bond
to the town, with corporate surety and in an amount as the Chief or Town
Manager may consider necessary, conditioned upon the full satisfaction of all
claims, judgments and decrees which may result by reason of any negligent or
unlawful act or omission of any person managing or participating in the parade
or group demonstration and covered by the permit, and that he or she will save
the town harmless therefrom; and with the further condition that he or she
shall pay to the town all extra expenses incurred for clearing the town's
streets, sidewalks and public places of litter resulting from the occurrence of
the parade or group demonstration and for the cleansing and repair of public
property defaced, soiled or damaged by paraders or demonstrators.
   (B)   Any applicant for a parade or group demonstration permit who feels
aggrieved by the decision of the Chief of Police or the Town Manager made
pursuant to division (A) above may appeal from the decision to the Board of
Alderman; and the Board shall consider the appeal at its next meeting, at which
the applicant may appear, with counsel, to present his or her case. After
hearing the appeal, the Board shall waive or uphold the requirement for bond,
and if the requirement for bond is upheld, the Board may amend the terms and
conditions thereof as in its sound discretion shall be in the best interests of
the town, and the decision of the Board shall be final.
   (C)   Bonds required by this section shall be approved as to form and surety
by the Town Attorney.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions, but funeral directors are requested to give
advance notice to the Chief of Police so that he or she may arrange for the
expeditious handling of traffic;
      (2)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity where the activity is under the
supervision and direction of proper school authorities; and
      (3)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   (B)   The terms and conditions of this application shall apply to all
applicants and may be enforced by the Town of West Jefferson and the West
Jefferson Police Department or other law enforcement agency. Any exceptions to
these policies must be made in writing by a town official.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 99: OUTDOOR DINING
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Definition
   
99.03   When and where outdoor dining permitted
   
99.04   Requirements of establishments with outdoor dining
   
99.05   Acts prohibited
   
99.06   Exceptions
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-178, this chapter is
enacted to regulate business activities involving outdoor dining within the
Town of West Jefferson.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022)
§ 99.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR DINING. A seasonal use, ancillary and contiguous to an approved
eating establishment (restaurant or retail food establishment) containing an
area set up outside the confines of the commercial structure with tables,
chairs, and other furnishings for the purpose of selling, offering for sale,
and serving food and beverages by an adjoining restaurant in which the same
food and beverages are offered for sale, sold, and served.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022)
§ 99.03 WHEN AND WHERE OUTDOOR DINING PERMITTED.
   (A)   Outdoor dining is permitted between the months of April and November
from 4:00 p.m. Friday to 9:00 p.m. Sunday.
   (B)   Establishments may place tables on town sidewalks as long as they are
directly in front of their business. No establishment shall have any more than
three tables on town sidewalks without express written approval from the town.
   (C)   Establishments may place tables on town parking spaces as long as they
are directly in front of their business not to exceed their building frontage.
No establishment shall reserve any more than four parking spaces within their
building frontage without express written approval from the town. The town
shall have the right to require any necessary barricades or other structures to
prevent the safety of all persons using or passing by these reserved spaces as
the town deems fit, and any related expenses shall be the responsibility of the
establishment reserving the spaces.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 REQUIREMENTS OF ESTABLISHMENTS WITH OUTDOOR DINING.
   (A)   Any outdoor tables, chairs or other related items shall not be
permitted to obstruct the flow of traffic, specifically including but not
limited to pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Any outdoor tables, chairs, or other related items shall not interfere
with the duties of the town, specifically including but not limited to the
police department, maintenance department, administration or water and sewer
management. This provision shall also apply to agents and affiliates of the
town, including but limited to NC Department of Transportation, Ashe County
Inspections, Ashe County Sheriff's Department, or NC State Highway Patrol.
   (C)   The town shall have the authority to remove any items violating this
statute at the expense of the violating party.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a party of any establishment conducting outdoor dining,
are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any violation of § 99.04 above.
   (B)   Any acts of outdoor dining allowed by property owners not engaged in
the business of operating an eating establishment.
   (C)   Any acts of outdoor dining outside of the permitted hours of this
chapter or during the months of December through March.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to outdoor dining specifically authorized by
the town by the issuance of a permit for a demonstration or other event.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, business, or property owner violating any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS REGISTRY
         
111.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
         
112.   MOBILE HOMES; HOUSE TRAILERS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGISTRY
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Business registration requirement
Business Registry Conditions
   
110.15   Application of chapter
   
110.16   Continuing authority of Council
Business Registry Fees
   
110.30   Beer and wine license provisions
   
110.40   License period; due date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A trade, occupation, profession, business or franchise.
   PERSON.  Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm, or
other legal entity.
   SEASONAL.  A business conducted for profit six months out of the year or
less.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
§ 110.02 BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   The Town Board of Aldermen hereby finds that businesses and occupations
located within the municipal limits should be required to register with the
city so that the following public purposes may be accomplished: ensuring
compliance with zoning land use regulations; informing the town of those
locations being used for commercial purposes so as to assist in fire protection
and proper 911 addressing; identifying businesses that should be listing
property for taxation; protecting the public from scam artists or con men; and
any other lawful purpose related to the exercise of the city’s general police
power, and the public health, welfare and safety.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
BUSINESS REGISTRY CONDITIONS
§ 110.15 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all businesses within the
city, unless specifically charged, exempted or excluded by this chapter or by
state laws and other applicable city ordinances, or state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
§ 110.16 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the City
Council from imposing from time to time any license taxes allowed by law as are
not specifically herein defined or required, nor from prohibiting or regulating
any business or acts licensed hereunder.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
BUSINESS REGISTRY FEES
§ 110.30 BEER AND WINE LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   In accordance to G.S. § 105-113.77(a), City Malt Beverage and Wine Retail
Licenses, a person holding any of the following retail ABC permits for an
establishment located in a city shall obtain from the city a city license for
that activity. The annual tax for each license is as stated:
 
ABC Permit                                  Tax for Corresponding License
On-premises malt beverage                   $15
Off-premises malt beverage                  $5
On-premises unfortified wine, on-premises   $15
fortified wine, or both
Off-premises unfortified wine, off-premises $10
fortified wine, or both
 
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
§ 110.40 LICENSE PERIOD; DUE DATE.
   Unless provided otherwise, a license fee issued pursuant to this section,
and applicable city ordinances, or state or federal law, is good for the 12-
month period beginning July 1 and ending June 30. The license fee is due July 1
of each year. However, if a person begins a business after July 1 of a year,
the license fee for that year, pursuant to this chapter, is due before the
business is begun.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
CHAPTER 111: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
General Regulations
   
111.01   Permit required
   
111.02   Permit, fare schedule, photo required to be displayed
   
111.03   Reservation of right to grant franchise
Operation of Horse-Drawn Carriages
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Compliance required
   
111.17   Permit required; information on application to be shown
   
111.18   Fixed place of business required
   
111.19   Permits not transferable; replacements and substitution
   
111.20   Renewal of permit; revocation
   
111.21   Special permits
   
111.22   Insurance
   
111.23   Horse-drawn carriage driver’s permit
   
111.24   Safe mechanical condition of horse-drawn carriage required
   
111.25   Safety equipment required
   
111.26   Cleanliness of horse-drawn carriage required
   
111.27   Inspection of carriage required
   
111.28   Suspension of permit
   
111.29   Certificate of health of animals required
   
111.30   Other requirements for the safety of the animals
   
111.31   Carriage stands
   
111.32   Driver not to leave vehicle while waiting to be hired
   
111.33   Restriction on number of passengers
   
111.34   Refusal to carry orderly passengers prohibited
   
111.35   Other prohibited acts
   
111.36   Areas of operation
   
111.37   Hours of operation
   
111.38   Traffic violations
   
111.39   Sanitation requirements
   
111.40   Penalty for failure to comply
   
111.41   Appeals
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 111.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall own, operate, or manage a taxicab
business within the corporate limits of the town until a license or permit
shall have been obtained from the town.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1979) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 PERMIT, FARE SCHEDULE, PHOTO REQUIRED TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Operators and drivers of taxicabs within the town shall display prominently
in each taxicab so as to be visible to the passengers, the town taxi permit,
the schedule of fares, and a photograph of the driver.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1979) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO GRANT FRANCHISE.
   The town, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-304, may grant a franchise, or franchises,
to taxicab owners and operators on stipulations and terms as to the Board of
Aldermen may deem advisable.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1979)
OPERATION OF HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   In all matters relating to the administration of this subchapter, whenever
the following terms are used, they shall be construed and defined as follows:
   CLERK. The West Jefferson Town Clerk.
   COMPANY. The holder of a permit to operate a horse-drawn carriage business
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether a person, firm, partnership or
corporation.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or operates a horse-drawn carriage on the
streets of West Jefferson for a licensed company.
   DRIVER'S PERMIT. The written authority granted by the town for an individual
to drive or operate a horse-drawn carriage.
   HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE. Any hack or carriage which is drawn by a horse or mule
or other beast of burden, for the transportation for hire of passengers.
   PERMIT. The written authority granted by the town under this article to
engage in the business of operating one or more horse-drawn carriages in the
town for transportation of passengers.
   STAND. A public place alongside the curb of a street or elsewhere which has
been designated by the town as reserved exclusively for the use of horse-drawn
carriages.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.16 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating
any horse-drawn carriage on the streets of the town until the provisions of
this subchapter have been complied with. Provided, however, any such business
in operation as of the effective date of this subchapter shall have 30 days to
comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.17 PERMIT REQUIRED; INFORMATION ON APPLICATION TO BE SHOWN.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate one or more horse-drawn carriages
within the town shall first make written application for a permit and shall
file the application with the Clerk. The application shall contain the full
name and address of the applicant, and the names of the officers if the
applicant is a corporation; the principal location from which the business is
to be operated; the number of horse-drawn carriages to be operated under the
permit, if granted; the hours of operation for the carriages; the planned
routes for the carriages; and such other information as may be required by the
town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the clerk to issue permits to any
applicant or applicants, upon compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The permit shall be conspicuously displayed at all times at the fixed
place of business described in §
111.18 hereinafter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.18 FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS REQUIRED.
   Each horse-drawn carriage company shall establish and maintain a fixed
headquarters as designated by the town, see §
111.31(A). The headquarters shall conform to the ordinances of the town and
shall provide adequate off-street parking for all horse-drawn carriages not in
service on the streets. The company headquarters shall not be moved except by
the approved transfer of the company's permit to another location.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.19 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE; REPLACEMENTS AND SUBSTITUTION.
   Permits to operate horse-drawn carriages shall not be transferred; provided,
however, that the holders of permits may make replacements and substitutions of
such carriages if the total number of carriages does not exceed the total
number provided for in the permit. In the event a horse-drawn carriage business
is transferred, the new owner shall apply to the Clerk for the permits required
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.20 RENEWAL OF PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   Any company to whom a permit has been issued shall be entitled to renew such
permit on an annual basis, so long as such company shall fully comply with the
provisions of this subchapter and such other ordinances, rules and regulations
as shall be enacted or adopted from time to time by the town and shall pay the
annual permit fee required hereunder and pay the annual privilege license tax.
Annual permit fees shall be due on or before July l of each year. The Clerk,
for good cause shown, may at any time revoke such permit.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.21 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to the permits issued under and pursuant to §
111.17, special permits for the operation of horse-drawn carriages during
special events may be issued pursuant to this section, subject to approval of
the special events committee. Applications may be made for special permits upon
forms issued by the Clerk, upon a showing by the applicant therefor of the
following:
      (1)   That a specific need or convenience will be served by the issuance
of such additional permit, based upon the uniqueness of the type of carriage,
the routes to be served, or other special amenities different in kind from
those currently available to the general public in West Jefferson;
      (2)   That the applicant has obtained a certificate of insurance pursuant
to §
111.22;
      (3)   That the proposed carriage has passed inspection for safety;
      (4)   That the applicant present a certificate from a veterinarian
licensed in the state of any U.S. state or the District of Columbia stating
that the horses or other beasts of burden proposed for use with such carriage
are in good health and suitable for the proposed use;
      (5)   That there be presented with such application a proposed schedule
of operation, including proposed rates and fees to be charged therefor, which
schedule of fees shall be posted prominently within each carriage.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application
fee as established by the town.
   (C)   A special permit shall expire automatically at the close of the
special event for which it was issued.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.22 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any company operating under this chapter shall hold the town, its
officers, agents, servants and employees, harmless against any and all
liability, loss, damages or expense which may accrue to the town by reason of
negligence, default or misconduct of the company in connection with the rights
granted hereunder. Nothing in this chapter shall be considered to make the
town, its officers, agents, servants or employees liable for damages because of
any negligent act or omission or commission by any company, its servants,
agents, drivers or other employees, during the operation by the company of a
horse-drawn carriage business, either in respect to injury to persons or with
respect to damage to property which may be sustained. All permits issued
hereunder shall include a notarized statement of the permit holder to
incorporate the provisions set forth herein.
   (B)   Any company operating under this article shall secure and maintain a
liability insurance policy from an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, covering each carriage to be used. The minimum coverage shall be
$100,000 for bodily injury to any one person, $300,000 for injury to more than
one person in the same accident, and $25,000 for property damage resulting from
one accident. Such policy may be in the form of a separate policy for each
carriage or in the form of a fleet policy covering all carriages operated by
the company. Such policy or policies shall include an endorsement to the effect
that the same cannot be altered, modified or cancelled for any cause without
notice thereof being served upon the Clerk at least 30 days prior to the date
of such alteration, modification or cancellation. A certificate of insurance
certifying the above coverage shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued under this article until the certificate of
insurance has been filed and approved.
   (D)   If at any time during the life of any permit issued under the
provisions of this subchapter, the company allows said insurance policy to
lapse or to become ineffective, or if any insurer thereof becomes unable
financially to respond to the obligation thereof, or such policy is allowed to
terminate in whole or in part, then at the same time the permit of such company
to operate such carriage shall consequently become null and void.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.23 HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE DRIVER'S PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a horse-drawn carriage for hire upon the
streets of the town, and no person who owns or operates a horse-drawn carriage
company shall permit a horse-drawn carriage to be driven, unless the driver of
such carriage first obtain and have in force a horse-drawn carriage driver's
permit issued under the provisions of this section and pay the permit fee
therefor (if applicable).
   (B)   Any person desiring a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit shall
submit an application in writing to the Clerk, on a form to be furnished by the
Clerk. The application shall state the age of the applicant, his address, their
driver's license number, and whether he has been convicted of a violation of
any of the laws of the state or the ordinances of the town, and if so, when and
of what offense, and the sentence of the court.
   (C)   An applicant for a driver's permit must be not less than 18 years of
age, with no physical infirmities which might make him an unsafe or
unsatisfactory horse-drawn carriage driver. No permit shall be issued to any
person who has been convicted of operating a motor vehicle while impaired
within one year prior to the date of the application for such permit, or who
has been convicted of the offense three or more times within five years prior
to the date of application. An applicant must provide a copy of his or her
current North Carolina Class "C" driver's license or the equivalent license
issued by any other U.S. state or the District of Columbia and that the license
is not under suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Each applicant for a driver's permit shall file with the Clerk a sworn
affidavit that he or she has successfully completed an apprenticeship with
horse-drawn carriages, which includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The proper method of fitting a harness to a horse and hitching and
unhitching a properly harnessed horse;
      (2)   An attestation that the applicant has ridden with a driver
permitted hereunder during the first 24 hours of the apprenticeship to observe
the proper handling and driving of a horse-drawn carriage and has been trained
in emergency situations for unexpected animal behavior; and
      (3)   Has driven horse-drawn carriages under the supervision of a driver
permitted hereunder for the last 16 hours of the apprenticeship;
      (4)   Is familiar with the traffic regulations and designated horse-drawn
carriage routes.
   (E)   In lieu of the apprenticeship requirements, an applicant may file with
the Clerk a sworn affidavit that he or she has had previous experience driving
a horse-drawn carriage, exceeding 40 hours therein, including a detailed
description, of that experience;
   (F)   An identification card showing that a permit has been issued under the
provisions of this section shall be displayed on the driver's person at all
times when the carriage is for hire or is being operated.
   (G)   A driver's permit shall remain in effect for 12 months from the date
of issue. Permits may be renewed, upon application, for additional 12-month
periods upon satisfaction of the requirements of this section and payment of
the annual permit fee, if applicable.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to alter, deface,
obliterate or destroy a horse-drawn carriage driver's permit, or cause or allow
the same.
   (I)   Any horse-drawn carriage driver's permit issued under this subchapter
is not transferable, and is to be used solely by the person to whom it is
issued.
   (J)   Every driver of a horse-drawn carriage shall be neat and clean in
appearance and shall, while on duty, wear an identification badge, with his
name and permit information thereon, on his shirt or coat, in plain view. No
driver may use any tobacco product while carrying any passenger.
   (K)   The Clerk shall have the authority to revoke a horse-drawn carriage
driver's permit if the holder of the permit:
      (1)   Ceases to meet the qualifications described in division (C), above;
      (2)   Fails to correct satisfactorily any false statement made in the
application for the permit immediately upon request; or
      (3)   Fails to operate his carriage in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.24 SAFE MECHANICAL CONDITION OF HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE REQUIRED.
   Every carriage operated on the streets of the town shall be maintained in a
safe mechanical condition, with all safety equipment remaining intact and
operative at all times when the carriage is in service.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.25 SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Each horse-drawn carriage shall be equipped with operable turn signals. Each
such carriage shall also be equipped with operable lights or lanterns and
reflectors when are used during the hours of dusk and darkness. The turn
signals, lights and reflectors shall be mounted so that they are visible from
any direction for a distance of at least 1,000 feet. Each such carriage shall
have on board at all times a fire extinguisher and a first aid kit.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.26 CLEANLINESS OF HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE REQUIRED.
   Every carriage operating under this chapter shall be kept painted and in a
clean and sanitary condition, free of litter and debris and at all times
suitable for public transportation of passengers.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.27 INSPECTION OF CARRIAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each carriage shall be inspected by the Chief of Police or the Chief's
Designee for compliance with the provisions of this subchapter regarding safety
and overall appearance and shall pass the inspection before being used to carry
passengers for hire. Each carriage shall be inspected by the Chief of Police or
the chief's designee at least once in each six-month period to ensure continued
compliance with this article. The Chief of Police shall certify to the Clerk
the carriage is in compliance by signature on the initial application and
before any operations begin. When a carriage is involved in an accident, the
horse-drawn carriage business owner shall file a report of the accident with
the Police Department. The Chief of Police or the Chief's designee shall
inspect each such carriage before it is returned to service.
   (B)   The inspection shall include the following:
      (1)   Body condition;
      (2)   Reflectors;
      (3)   Grab handles;
      (4)   Traces;
      (5)   Harness;
      (6)   Seats;
      (7)   Wheels;
      (8)   Top;
      (9)   Shafts;
      (10)   Steps;
      (11)   Brakes;
      (12)   Lights or lanterns, on any vehicle to be operated at night; and
      (13)   Turn signals.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.28 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   The Clerk is hereby given full power to suspend a permit upon the Clerk's
determination that the operation of the carriage would cause imminent danger to
the public's safety. The suspension shall be effective immediately upon notice
to the owner. The carriage may not be returned to service until it has been re-
inspected and found to comply with §
111.27.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.29 CERTIFICATE OF HEALTH OF ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   The holder of each permit to operate a horse-drawn carriage company shall,
as a condition to such permit remaining in force, present to the Clerk no later
than the first day the horse-drawn carriage operation is to begin, a
certificate by a doctor of veterinary medicine, duly licensed in the state of
any U.S. state or the District of Columbia, for each horse or other beast of
burden owned by such company for its horse-drawn carriage business, with
identifying information, certifying that such doctor of veterinary medicine has
examined such horse or other animal, and that the animal is in good health and
able to draw the horse-drawn carriage or carriages to which the horse is
assigned without endangering the health of such horse or other animal. In the
event of failure to present a certificate for each such horse, the owner shall
not be able to use in the horse-drawn carriage business any horse for which a
certificate is not presented. Such certificate of health shall be required to
be presented to the Clerk every year thereafter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.30 OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SAFETY OF THE ANIMALS.
   (A)   All operating carriages shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No single animal shall pull a carriage holding more than 1.5 times
its body weight.
      (2)   Unless written approval is given by a licensed veterinarian, no
animal having open sores or wounds or any disease or ailment shall be permitted
to be in service on the streets of the town.
      (3)   Each animal shall have all hooves properly trimmed and shod for
street surfaces, with the horse shoes to be designed to keep the animal from
slipping on the pavement.
      (4)   Each animal shall be groomed and shall not have fungus, dandruff,
or a dirty coat.
      (5)   Harnesses shall be properly fitted, maintained and oiled so that no
irritating material will come in direct contact with the animal.
      (6)   No driver may use more than a light touch of the whip upon any
animal, and no driver or other person may forcefully strike an animal, or make
movements or noise intended to frighten or harm an animal.
      (7)   No driver shall permit an animal to pull a carriage at a speed
faster than a slow trot, except in emergency situations.
      (8)   Each animal shall be provided with adequate food, water and rest to
pull the horse-drawn carriage to which it is assigned.
      (9)   No animal shall become overheated in a manner which endangers its
health and safety.
      (10)   No animal shall pull horse-drawn carriages in temperatures below
25 degrees Fahrenheit under calm conditions or its equivalent when adding in a
wind chill factor, or when the apparent temperature, combining the air
temperature with the relative humidity, is above 90 degrees Fahrenheit.
      (11)   Animals used to pull horse-drawn carriages shall be given a ten-
minute rest period at the end of two consecutive labor hours and potable water
shall be made available during the rest period. Labor hours are defined as
hours the animal is in harness for the horse-drawn carriage business. No animal
shall be kept in harness for the horse-drawn carriage business for periods in
excess of eight successive labor hours without a minimum of three successive
hours out of harness. No animal shall be in harness for the horse-drawn
carriage business for more than six days in a seven-day period.
      (12)   No animal shall be subject to any condition or treatment, whether
in service or out of service, which will impair the good health and physical
condition of that animal.
   (B)   Any sworn town police officer is hereby empowered to stop all
carriages for inspection as to compliance with the above requirements, and is
further empowered to confiscate for delivery to the Clerk the permit for any
vehicle appearing to be in probable violation hereof.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.31 CARRIAGE STANDS.
   (A)   To be approved by the Town Manager, and is hereby empowered to
designate the location and extent of space for stands located on town streets
and parking spaces or lots and which shall be known as “carriage stands.”
Unless otherwise allowed by the town, no automobiles or other means of
conveyance other than horse-drawn carriages as defined in this subchapter shall
be permitted to use such stands.
   (B)   No long-term parking of horse-drawn carriages shall be permitted on
the public streets except at such stands as approved by the town, which shall
also be designated by signs. Whenever any stand is established, it may be used
by horse-drawn carriages on a “first come, first serve” rotation basis.
   (C)   Temporary parking of horse drawn-carriages shall be permitted on the
public streets in the event a private function is taking place and the horse-
drawn carriage is being utilized (i.e. such as a wedding where the carriage
would be temporarily parked out in front of a church).
   (D)   Drivers of horse-drawn carriages shall maintain such stands in a
sanitary condition at all times. Any failure on the part of a driver to conform
to the requirements of this section shall be unlawful and shall subject the
driver to the penalties provided herein.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.32 DRIVER NOT TO LEAVE VEHICLE WHILE WAITING TO BE HIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver to leave his carriage, or the immediate
premises thereof, while the carriage is parked in a carriage stand waiting to
be hired.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.33 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in his carriage as
passengers than the rated seating capita of said carriage or if exceeding the
weight limit as described in §
111.30. A child in arms shall not be counted as a passenger, so long as the
child is five years of age or less.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.34 REFUSAL TO CARRY ORDERLY PASSENGERS PROHIBITED.
   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person or persons,
upon request, unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the
provisions of this subchapter to do so.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.35 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver to use his carriage for any purpose
other than the transportation of passengers.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.36 AREAS OF OPERATION.
   Horse-drawn carriages carrying passengers for hire shall be allowed on town
streets as well as in accordance to the restrictions explained in §
111.37.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.37 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No horse-drawn carriage shall be operated for the purposes of a tour on town
streets between the hours of midnight and 9:00 a.m. on any day. No carriage
shall be operated along Jefferson Avenue during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 5:30
p.m. Monday through Friday, except that such restriction shall not apply on
legal holidays.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.38 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Drivers of horse-drawn carriages shall be subject to all traffic laws
applicable to drivers of motor vehicles, except those provisions which by their
nature can have no application.
   (B)   Horse-drawn carriages shall be prohibited from stopping in traffic or
delaying any on-street traffic for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or for any other purpose.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate carriages except when the draft
animals are under complete control. Such vehicles shall be operated with
caution and due care for the safety of others.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.39 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Drivers of horse-drawn carriages and the permit holder for the horse-drawn
carriage business shall ensure that draft animals are equipped with diapers or
similar devices or that other methods are used to prevent manure and other
wastes of the animals from falling or collecting on town streets. The town
shall charge the company with the assumed costs, including materials and
assumed labor costs, for the cleanup of such manure and other wastes. Any
charge not paid by the company within 30 days of the sending of written notice
by any generally recognized means shall constitute grounds for suspension of
the company's right to operate carriages.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.40 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter may result in
revocation of the permit of the driver, the company, or both.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the violator
to the civil penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.41 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Clerk hereunder may be appealed to the Town Manager by
any aggrieved person, by delivery to the Clerk of a notice of appeal within ten
days of the giving of notice by the Clerk of such decision. The Town Council
shall decide all appeals. Decisions of the Town Manager may be appealed to the
Superior Court within 30 days after receipt of the Town Manager's written
decision.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 112: MOBILE HOMES; HOUSE TRAILERS
Section
   
112.01   Mobile homes, house trailers prohibited
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 MOBILE HOMES, HOUSE TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No mobile homes or house trailers shall be permitted to park within
the town for residential uses from and after October 1, 1968.
   (B)   Mobile homes and house trailers which are presently located for
residential uses within the town shall be allowed to remain at their present
locations until moved or removed by their owners, but that once moved or
removed, they shall not be permitted to return to their present locations or to
any other locations for residential uses within the town, or to be replaced in
their present locations for residential uses by other mobile homes or house
trailers.
(Ord. passed 9-5-1968) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Loitering or prowling prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LOITERING OR PROWLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter or prowl in a place, at any
time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals, under circumstances
that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the
safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
   (B)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
the alarm or immediate concern is warranted is the fact that the person takes
flight upon appearance of law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself
or herself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any
object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an
offense under this section, afford an opportunity to dispel any alarm or
immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted, by requesting him or her
to identify himself or herself and explain his or her presence and conduct. No
person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law
enforcement officer did not comply with this procedure, or if it appears at
trial that the explanation given by the person is true, and if believed by the
officer at the time, would have dispersed the alarm or immediate concern.
(Ord. passed 9-2-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
131.02   Disturbance of public meetings prohibited
   
131.03   Hunting of game animals prohibited
   
131.04   Public possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
131.05   Carrying concealed weapons
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any rifle,
gun, pistol, pellet gun, air gun, air pistol, or air rifle within the town, on
or off his or her premises, in sport or amusement.
   (B)   Any person who shall knowingly and willfully permit his or her minor
child under 18 years of age to discharge, fire, shoot, or operate, within the
town, any air rifle, BB gun, or pellet gun shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1990) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and restrict firearms and pellet guns, see G.S. §§
160A-189 and 160A-190
§ 131.02 DISTURBANCE OF PUBLIC MEETINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner, or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1990) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 HUNTING OF GAME ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall take, trap, kill, or attempt to take, trap, or kill any form
of game animals within the municipal limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1983) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 PUBLIC POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume fortified or
unfortified wine, spirituous liquor, malt beverage, or beer on any public area
within the town, specifically including, but not limited to, the municipal park
and cemetery, public parking areas, both off-street and on-street, on any
sidewalk or alleyway, and private parking areas for businesses, to include
parking lots for businesses which may legally sell alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess fortified or
unfortified wine, spirituous liquor, malt beverages or beer on the following
properties owned by the town: The municipal park and cemetery.
(Ord. passed 9-2-1999) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized and instructed to post
conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within each park and each
building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied,
managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the appurtenant premises to the
buildings or parks, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited
therein.
   (B)   Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each
entrance by which the general public can access the building. The Town Manager
shall exercise discretion in determining the number and appropriate location of
signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises and parks.
(Ord. passed 4-4-1996)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
151.   ZONING
         
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLANS
         
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
154.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Subdivision ordinance adopted
§ 150.01 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The revised comprehensive subdivision ordinance, copies of which are on file
with the office of the Town Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 11-1-2007)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Zoning ordinance adopted
§ 151.01 ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The revised comprehensive zoning ordinance, copies of which are on file in
the office of the Town Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1979; Ord. passed 9-6-1984; Ord. passed 10-3-1985; Ord. passed
3-4-2004; Ord. passed 6-2-2005; Ord. passed 3-1-2007; Ord. passed 7-12-2007;
Ord. passed 8-2-2007; Ord. passed 4-3-2008; Ord. passed 10-2-2008; Ord. 1979-
19, passed 4-2-2009; Ord. passed 2-2-2010; Ord. passed 3-7-2011)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLANS
Section
   
152.01   Mountain ridge protection ordinance adopted
   
152.02   Watershed protection ordinance adopted
§ 152.01 MOUNTAIN RIDGE PROTECTION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The Model Mountain Ridge Protection Ordinance, as prepared by the state
Department of Natural Resources, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1983)
§ 152.02 WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The revised comprehensive watershed protection ordinance, copies of which
are on file in the office of the Town Clerk, is hereby adopted and incorporated
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1993)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Flood damage prevention ordinance adopted
§ 153.01 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The revised comprehensive flood damage prevention ordinance, copies of which
are on file in the office of the Town Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1986)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Construction Regulation
   
154.01   Contractor liability for damage and cleanup
   
154.02   Inspections by Town Manager
   
154.03   Thirty-day notice to repair or remove
Well Drilling
   
154.15   Prior approval of drilling required
Moving of Buildings
   
154.25   Permission of Board required for move of building
   
154.26   Considerations prior to approval of move
Abandoned Structures
   
154.40   Findings and intent
   
154.41   Building Inspector powers and duties
   
154.42   Enforcement standards
   
154.43   Enforcement procedure
   
154.44   Service of process
   
154.45   Remedies for violation
Communication Tower Regulation
   
154.55   Definitions
   
154.56   Purpose; jurisdiction
   
154.57   Permit required
   
154.58   Application specifications
   
154.59   Issuance requirements
   
154.60   Appeal of Zoning Administrator decision
   
154.61   Request for variance
   
154.62   Conditions required for grant of variance; mitigating factors
   
154.63   Decision of Board; appeal
   
154.64   Compliance required; removal at usage termination
   
154.65   Transfer of ownership or authority
 
   
154.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION REGULATION
§ 154.01 CONTRACTOR LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   All building, plumbing, electrical, grading, erection, excavation, and
demolition contractors and subcontractors doing work or supervising work within
the town are responsible and liable for any damage done to any street, highway,
sidewalk, or property owned by the town.
   (B)   All building, plumbing, electrical, grading, excavation, and
demolition contractors and subcontractors doing work or supervising work within
the town are responsible for the removal of all trash and debris during and
after the completion of all construction projects.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1979)
§ 154.02 INSPECTIONS BY TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager shall make periodic inspections of any work being performed
by contractors to determine if any damage has been done or if any trash or
debris has not been removed.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1979)
§ 154.03 THIRTY-DAY NOTICE TO REPAIR OR REMOVE.
   Upon determining that a contractor has damaged a street, highway, sidewalk,
or property owned by the town and has not completed repairs to the same, or
that trash or debris has not been removed, the Board of Aldermen shall direct
the Town Manager to notify the contractor that the repair or removal must be
made within 30 days from the date that the notification was deposited in the
United States mail.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1979)
WELL DRILLING
§ 154.15 PRIOR APPROVAL OF DRILLING REQUIRED.
   No individual, firm, partnership, or corporation shall drill, or have
drilled, within the town any well unless the same is first approved in writing
by the Board of Aldermen of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1979)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 154.25 PERMISSION OF BOARD REQUIRED FOR MOVE OF BUILDING.
   All persons, firms, corporations, or other legal entities desiring to move a
building or structure within the town, or from outside the municipal limits to
a point within the town limits, must first present the details of the proposed
move to the Board of Aldermen of the town at a regular or special meeting of
the Board and obtain the permission of the Board.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1980)
§ 154.26 CONSIDERATIONS PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF MOVE.
   The Board of Aldermen in deciding whether to allow or deny the request or
requests for a building or structure shall determine whether the proposed
moving shall promote the orderly growth of the town, whether the proposal
violates the zoning ordinance or other ordinances of the town, and whether the
proposal will endanger the public health and welfare of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1980)
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 154.40 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exists within the town abandoned structures
which the Board of Aldermen find to be hazardous to the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a
threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by
G.S. § 160A-441, it is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the repair,
closing, or demolition of any abandoned structures in accordance with the same
provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing, or
demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1983)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-441 was repealed by S.L. 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by S.L.
2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and S.L. 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19,
2020.
§ 154.41 BUILDING INSPECTOR POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the town officer to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector:
      (1)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   To take action pursuant to this subchapter as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing, or demolition of the structures;
      (3)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (4)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned to
him or her by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise powers as may be
necessary to carry out the intent and the provisions of this subchapter,
including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
      (1)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order
to determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this
subchapter;
      (2)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (3)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence; and
      (4)   To designate the other officers, agents, and employees of the town
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1983)
§ 154.42 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Building Inspector may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure's floors, walls, ceilings, or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the state Building Code, the state Electrical Code,
or the Fire Prevention Code, which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish, or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the state Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1983)
§ 154.43 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by at least five
residents of the town charging that any structure exists in violation of this
subchapter or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any
structure exists in violation hereof, he or she shall, if his or her
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, issue and cause to
be served upon the owner of, or any party in interest in, the structure, a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more
than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner, or any party in
interest, shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear
in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to the structure. Any person desiring to do
so may attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the inspector.
   (B)   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing his
or her determination whether the structure violates this ordinance. If the
Inspector determines that the dwelling is in violation, he or she shall state
in writing his or her findings of fact to support the determination, and shall
issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and
requiring the owner to either repair, alter, and improve the structure, or else
remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time not to exceed 90
days.
   (C)   (1)   If the owner of any structure shall fail to comply with an order
of the Inspector within the time specified therein, the Inspector may submit to
the Board of Aldermen at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the
Town Attorney to petition the superior court for an order directing the owner
to comply with the order of the Inspector, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not
been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1) above, the
Inspector shall submit to the Board of Aldermen an ordinance ordering the
Inspector to cause the structure to be removed or demolished, as provided in
the original order of the Inspector, and pending the removal or demolition, to
placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the inspector shall have
the right, within 30 days after issuance of the order, to petition the superior
court for a temporary injunction restraining the Inspector pending a final
disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. passed 12-1-1983)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 160A-443 and 160A-446 were repealed by S.L. 2019-111, s. 2.3, as
amended by S.L. 2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and S.L. 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d),
effective June 19, 2020.
§ 154.44 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be
made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at
least once, no later than the time at which personal service is required under
§
154.43. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1983)
§ 154.45 REMEDIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and upon
adoption by the Board of Aldermen of an ordinance authorizing and directing him
or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
154.43, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the structure either to be
repaired or else removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the
Board of Aldermen and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the
structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the structure. Use or
occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each
ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor
index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
   (B)   As provided by G.S. 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any removal
or demolition caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to this
subchapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
   (C)   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1983)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 160A-443 was repealed by S.L. 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by S.L.
2020-3, s. 4.33(a), and S.L. 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19,
2020.
COMMUNICATION TOWER REGULATION
§ 154.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The governing body of the town.
   MAJOR MOUNTAIN RIDGE. A ridge with an elevation equal to or greater than
3,000 feet above mean sea level and an elevation of 200 feet or more above the
elevation of an adjacent valley floor, including all land within 100 feet below
the elevation of any portion of the line or surface along the crest.
   STEALTH TECHNOLOGY. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light
poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or
conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground to the upper-
most point of the tower, not including the antenna(s). (Towers under 40 feet in
height and owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station
operator shall be excluded from this subchapter.)
   TOWER SITE. The real property that an applicant is required to have
ownership of, leasehold interest in, or easement over.
   VEGETATIVE CANOPY. Trees that create a roof-like layer of spreading branches
and/or natural ground cover, including grasses and shrubs.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER  or TOWER. Any tower or structure erected
for the purpose of supporting, including, but not limited to, one or more
antennas designed to transmit or receive television, AM/FM radio, digital,
microwave, cellular, telephone, or similar forms of electronic communication.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person assigned by the Board of Aldermen to
enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.56 PURPOSE; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the powers granted to the town
by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules
and standards for the location and construction of towers and antennas for
commercial wireless telecommunications.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable only to the
incorporated areas of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.57 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, or other
entity to erect any wireless communication towers without first obtaining a
permit from the Zoning Administrator. A permit shall also be required for the
erection of a replacement tower or modification of an existing tower. Existing
towers owned by governmental agencies and designed for non-commercial emergency
communications may be replaced with a tower equal in height to the replaced
tower; however, all other subchapter provisions are applicable.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.58 APPLICATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A completed wireless communication tower permit application with all
supporting documentation identified in §
154.59 shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for permit review.
   (B)   The application shall include a site plan containing the following
information:
      (1)   Title block containing the name of the tower owner and/or property
owner, scale, North arrow, latitude/longitude coordinates, and surveyed ground
elevation;
      (2)   Exact boundary lines of the property containing the proposed tower
construction, any associated guy wires, and tower height. (Boundary line
corners to be clearly marked on site to allow for a visual inspection by the
Zoning Administrator);
      (3)   Tower design plan prepared by a state Registered Professional
Engineer, including the engineer's signature, seal, and address;
      (4)   The foundation and base of the tower, the foundation for all guy
line anchors and support structures, all proposed buildings, and any other
proposed improvements, including access roads and utility connections within
and to the proposed site;
      (5)   Description of adjacent land use and all property owner names, deed
book and page number, and tax parcel number;
      (6)   An elevation profile, drawn to scale, of all existing and proposed
towers with any proposed lighting and antennas to be located on the property;
      (7)   Zoning designation of the site and adjoining property; and
      (8)   Vicinity map.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.59 ISSUANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall approve or disapprove the permit based upon
receipt of a completed site plan pursuant to §
154.58, and the following provisions.
   (A)   The first option for the location of a proposed antenna is co-location
on an existing tower, either within or outside town limits. The applicant shall
identify all possible alternatives considered within the service area for the
proposed tower, and explain why the proposed tower is necessary, and why
existing towers or other structures cannot accommodate the proposed antenna(s).
   (B)   The applicant shall further demonstrate that all possible alternatives
concerning the location of a proposed tower have been considered on real
property owned and/or managed by federal, state or local public organizations,
and explain the results of these considerations.
   (C)   Locating a tower on a major mountain ridge shall be considered as a
last resort, and justifying documentation shall be provided.
   (D)   All towers located within town limits shall be monopole, and no taller
than 30 feet higher than the vegetation canopies and/or ground cover
immediately surrounding the base of the tower.
   (E)   The proposed tower should be designed and constructed for co-location
of at least one other telecommunication antenna system.
   (F)   The applicant shall be required to provide documentation certifying
compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations, including NEPA
and state Historic Preservation Office.
   (G)   The applicant shall present to the Zoning Administrator proof of
either fee simple ownership, an option to purchase or lease, a recorded
leasehold interest, or an easement, from the record owner of all property
involved and any necessary rights-of-way to the tower site. The securing of any
interest in any real property for the location of a proposed tower shall not be
construed to define a vested right to erect the proposed tower.
   (H)   A sign identifying the owner(s) and operator(s) of the tower and an
emergency telephone number shall be placed in a clearly visible location on the
premises of the tower.
   (I)   When applicable, tower sites shall comply with the terms of the town
Watershed Ordinance and any other applicable ordinances.
   (J)   All towers shall be set back from any surrounding property lines by a
distance equal to the height of the tower, unless a state registered
professional engineer certifies the fall zone of the tower and appurtenances
will be within the setback area proposed.
   (K)   The tower shall be designed to meet the ANSI/EIA/TIA-222-F standards
(or as revised) of a minimum 50-year return wind speed and a minimum one-half
inch of solid radial ice. In no case shall the design wind speed be less than
specified in § 1609 of the state Building Code.
   (L)   The tower and any necessary buildings or structures shall be
surrounded by a commercial grade chain link secure fence at least eight feet in
height, which may include no more than two feet of barbed wire.
   (M)   Lighting on towers shall not be permitted except as required by
federal and state regulations. Towers shall be light gray or another earth tone
(such as environmental green), except when specific colors and color patterns
are required by federal or state regulations.
   (N)   When a tower is proposed adjacent to a residential area, the setback
space is to be used as a buffer zone and shall be landscaped as follows:
      (1)   Buffers shall consist of planting evergreen and/or deciduous trees
spaced no more than 30 feet apart.
      (2)   Trees shall be a least six to seven feet tall for evergreens, and
six to eight feet tall with a one and one-half-inch caliper (trunk measured six
inches above grade) for deciduous trees at time of planting, and shall reach a
height of no less than 20 feet at maturity.
      (3)   Planting of low growing shrubs and/or trees shall be placed at ten-
foot intervals. Plantings within buffer zones shall be staggered unless
topography is prohibitive. The buffer zone shall not be in, and no planting
shall be placed in, the road right-of-way.
   (O)   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter expires six months after
the date of issuance if the work authorized has not commenced. If, after
commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the permit
therefor immediately expires. No work authorized by a permit that has expired
may thereafter be performed until a new permit has been secured.
   (P)   The applicant shall provide the Zoning Administrator with proof of
general liability insurance in the minimum amount of $1,000,000.
   (Q)   The application shall be accompanied by payment of a non-refundable
processing fee in the amount of $_________________.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.60 APPEAL OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION.
   The applicant may make an appeal for review of any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator to the Board of
Aldermen. The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Board of Aldermen
within ten calendar days of receipt of notice of order, requirement, decision,
or determination. The Board shall decide the appeal based upon its findings of
fact and the intent of the subchapter. The effect of this decision shall not be
to vary the terms of the subchapter, but rather to interpret it.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.61 REQUEST FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   A request for a variance shall be submitted by the applicant in
writing to the town Board of Aldermen within ten days of receipt of notice of
an adverse decision by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The request shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Identification of any variances to the ordinance, the reason(s) for
seeking the variance(s), and any measures that are proposed to mitigate
possible adverse effects of the proposed ordinance(s); and
      (2)   Tax parcel numbers and names of all owners of real property within
100 feet of the proposed tower site property line.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.62 CONDITIONS REQUIRED FOR GRANT OF VARIANCE; MITIGATING FACTORS.
   (A)   The Board may grant a variance upon finding that the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the
particular place or property in question, because of its size, shape
topography, or requirement for towers that are not applicable to other tower
sites governed by this subchapter;
      (2)   The variance will not confer upon the applicant any special
privileges that are, or would be, denied to other operators of towers governed
by this subchapter;
      (3)   This subchapter would deprive the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other operators of towers governed by this subchapter;
      (4)   The variance will not seriously deter from the purpose and intent
of this subchapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare; and
      (5)   The special circumstances causing the need for variance(s) are not
the fault of the applicant.
   (B)   Co-location of facilities and/or stealth technology shall be
considered a mitigating factor to a variance request and may be justification
for the request.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.63 DECISION OF BOARD; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall make written findings to support its
decision either granting or denying the variance, and a copy shall be provided
to the applicant. The Board may attach to any variance conditions as it deems
necessary and appropriate. A request for a variance under this section shall
not constitute an admission by the applicant of any findings of fact made by
the Zoning Administrator or a waiver of appeal rights provided by this
division. Should the town Board of Aldermen grant the requested variance, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a tower permit. The permit applicant shall
acknowledge and agree to permit conditions approved by the Zoning Administrator
and the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The denial of an appeal or variance request by the Board of Aldermen,
or the imposition of any conditions precedent to the issuance of a variance,
may be appealed to the county Superior Court in the nature of certiorari. A
petition for writ of certiorari in the Superior Court shall be filed with the
Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the decision of the Board of
Aldermen is served upon the applicant.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.64 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; REMOVAL AT USAGE TERMINATION.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the submitted plans and permit may result in a
stop work order pursuant to G.S. § 153A-361, or revocation of the permit
pursuant to G.S. § 153A-362. Once constructed, the towers shall continue to be
maintained in compliance with the provisions of §
154.57. Failure to do so subjects the permittee to the penalties set forth in §
154.99.
   (B)   Any tower located within town limits shall be removed within 180 days
of the date upon which it ceases to be in active use, or upon notice from the
Zoning Administrator, whichever is more favorable to the owner and/or operator.
Removal shall be at the permittee's expense. Failure to do so subjects the
owner and/or operator to the penalties set forth in §
154.99.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 153A-361 and 153A-362 were repealed by Session Laws 2020-25, s. 51
(a), (b), (d), effective June 19, 2020.
§ 154.65 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR AUTHORITY.
   Any permittee that conveys the ownership and/or primary responsibility for
operation of a permitted tower shall notify the town within 30 days of the
conveyance or transfer. The permittee's successors and assigns shall be equally
subject to the terms of this subchapter as the original permittee.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2003)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                  Code Section
1-593                      10.05
14-399                     94.17
18B-700                    30.35
20-141(e)                  Ch. 72, Sch. II
20-141.1                   Ch. 72, Sch. II
20-150(e)                  70.03
20-158                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
20-162                     71.01
20-165.1                   Ch. 72, Sch. III
20-172                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
20-219.11                  90.07
20-219.11(c)               90.07
Ch. 44A, Art. 1            90.09
Ch. 73                     11.01
105-113.77(a)              110.30
Ch. 136, Art. 12           90.03
Ch. 136, Subch. 5          11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 6          11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 7          11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 8          11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 9          11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 10         11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 10, Sec. 1 11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 11         11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 12         11.01
Ch. 136, Subch. 13         11.01
136-143                    90.02;
                           90.03
Ch. 143, Art. 21           52.999
143-213(18)                52.002
                           52.002;
143-215.1                  52.057;
                           52.060
143-215.1(b)               52.059
143-215.1(d)               52.002
143-215.1(g)               52.052
143-215.3(a)(14)           52.002
143-215.6B                 52.999
143-215.6B(f)              52.999
143-215.6B(g)              52.999
143-215.6B(h)              52.999
143-215.6B(i)              52.999
153A-275                   52.001
153A-361 (Repealed)        154.64
153A-362 (Repealed)        154.64
Ch. 160A, Art. 10          154.45
160A, Art. 19              154.56
160A-A3                    94.01
160A-174                   94.01;
                           Ch. 98
160A-175                   94.01
160A-178                   97.01;
                           99.01
160A-184                   93.01
160A-186                   96.01
160A-189                   131.01
160A-190                   131.01
160A-192 (Repealed)        94.01
160A-193 (Repealed)        94.01;
                           94.66
160A-296                   Ch. 98
160A-300                   Ch. 98
160A-303                   90.02;
                           90.03
160A-303(b)(1)             90.01
160A-303(b)(2)             90.01
160A-304                   111.03
160A-312                   52.001
160A-435 (Repealed)        30.21
160A-441 (Repealed)        154.40
160A-443 (Repealed)        154.43
160A-443(5) (Repealed)     154.45
160A-443(6) (Repealed)     154.45
160A-446(f) (Repealed)     154.43
160A-446(g) (Repealed)     154.43
164-7                      10.14
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. Date Passed Code Section
Ord.    Date Passed Code Section
                    50.01—
                    50.03;
                    51.01;
                    54.001;
                    54.005;
                    54.010;
                    54.012;
                    54.013;
                    54.056;
                    54.057;
                    54.059;
–     - -         94.01—
                    94.04;
                    94.15—
                    94.18;
                    94.30—
                    94.31;
                    94.45;
                    94.46;
                    94.60—
                    94.62;
                    94.64—
                    94.66;
                    94.99
–     2-9-1915    11.01
–     2-11-1921   11.01
–     7-2-1954    Ch. 73, Sch. I
–     8-8-1957    30.20
–     11-3-1961   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                    53.01—
–     1-7-1965    53.03;
                    53.15—
                    53.23
–     4-7-1966    Ch. 72, Sch. III
–     10-6-1966   92.01;
                    92.02
–     2-2-1967    Ch. 73, Sch. I
–     9-5-1968    112.01
–     11-6-1969   Ch. 72, Sch. III
–     7-2-1970    Ch. 73, Sch. I
–     11-5-1970   Ch. 72, Sch. II
–     7-20-1972   Ch. 72, Sch. II
–     4-1-1976    Ch. 73, Sch. I
–     4-13-1978   30.01—
                    30.06
–     11-2-1978   91.01;
                    91.02
                    154.01—
–     1-4-1979    154.03;
                    154.15
–     6-7-1979    151.01
–     7-5-1979    111.01—
                    111.03
–     2-7-1980    154.25;
                    154.26
–     3-4-1982    54.001—
                    54.004
–     4-7-1983    53.03
–     9-1-1983    131.03
–     9-23-1983   152.02
–     11-3-1983   152.01
–     12-1-1983   154.40—
                    154.45
–     5-3-1984    Ch. 72, Sch. II
–     9-6-1984    151.01
–     4-4-1985    Ch. 72, Sch. II
–     10-3-1985   151.01
–     6-6-1986    153.01
                    93.01;
–     11-1-1990   131.01;
                    131.02
–     4-4-1996    131.05
–     8-1-1996    74.01;
                    74.02
–     9-2-1999    130.01;
                    131.04
–     7-3-2003    Ch. 54, App. A
–     11-6-2003   154.55—
                    154.65
–     3-4-2004    151.01
–     8-5-2004    30.04
–     2-3-2005    50.01
–     6-2-2005    151.01
–     1-5-2006    90.01—
                    90.12
–     3-1-2007    151.01
                    52.001;
                    52.002;
                    52.015—
                    52.023;
                    52.035—
                    52.038;
                    52.050—
                    52.063;
–     5-3-2007    52.075—
                    52.088;
                    52.100—
                    52.103;
                    52.115—
                    52.117;
                    52.130—
                    52.134;
                    52.999
–     7-12-2007   151.01
–     8-2-2007    151.01
–     11-1-2007   150.01
–     4-3-2008    151.01
–     8-7-2008    Ch. 72, Sch. II
–     9-9-2008    Ch. 72, Sch. II
–     10-2-2008   151.01
–     11-6-2008   Ch. 72, Sch. II
                    55.01—
–     4-2-2009    55.14;
                    55.99
1979-19 4-2-2009    151.01
–     2-2-2010    151.01
–     10-4-2010   54.030—
                    54.039
                    70.01—
                    70.04;
                    71.01;
                    71.02;
                    Ch. 72, Sch. I,
–     1-3-2011    Sch. II,
                    Sch. III;
                    Ch. 73, Sch. I;
                    74.01;
                    74.02;
                    75.01—
                    75.03
–     2-7-2011    54.056
–     3-7-2011    75.02
–     3-7-2011    151.01
                    95.01—
–     6-6-2011    95.04;
                    95.99
                    54.056;
–     9-6-2011    54.057;
                    54.059
                    54.056;
–     11-5-2012   54.057;
                    54.059
                    56.01—
–     11-5-2012   56.08;
                    56.99
–     1-9-2012    50.01
–     10-1-2012   30.21
                    52.001,
                    52.001;
                    52.015—
                    52.023;
                    52.035—
                    52.038;
                    52.050—
                    52.063;
–     2-4-2013    52.075—
                    52.088;
                    52.100—
                    52.103;
                    52.115—
                    52.117;
                    52.130—
                    52.134;
                    52.999
–     12-2-2013   93.01
                    96.01—
–     1-6-2014    96.04;
                    96.99
–     10-6-2014   94.16
–     1-5-2015    93.01
–     3-2-2015    92.03
                    110.01;
                    110.02;
–     7-6-2015    110.15;
                    110.16;
                    110.30,
                    110.40
–     8-3-2015    30.22
–     9-14-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. I
-       9-14-2015   50.01,
                    50.03
-       10-5-2015   94.46
-       - -         51.01
                    54.055—
-;      - -         54.059;
                    54.999
                    97.01—
-       4-4-2016    97.04;
                    97.99
-       6-6-2016    Ch. 72, Sch. I
-       8-1-2016    111.15—
                    111.41
-       11-7-2016   111.15—
                    111.41
-       12-5-2016   50.01
-       3-5-2018    92.03
-       9-14-2020   93.01
-       - -         98.01—
                    98.08
-       10-4-2021   93.01
-       7-12-2021   10.99
-       12-6-2021   94.99
-       12-6-2021   93.99
                    99.01 -
-       3-7-2022    99.06;
                    99.99
-       7-11-2022   50.01;
                    50.02
-       - -         54.012
                    94.01—
                    94.04;
                    94.15—
                    94.18;
                    94.30;
-       3-4-2024    94.31;
                    94.45;
                    94.46;
                    94.60—
                    94.66;
                    94.99
-       11-4-204    30.35,
                    30.36
-       4-7-2025    76.01,
                    76.99
                   
 
