WHITE LAKE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-06, passed 6-11-2020
State legislation current through 2020 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Regular Sessions #4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
WHITE LAKE, NORTH CAROLINA
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
MAYOR         H. Goldston Womble, Jr.
MAYOR PRO-TEM Thomas E. Riel
COMMISSIONER  Timothy G. Blount
COMMISSIONER  Timothy L. Clifton
COMMISSIONER  Paul A. Evans
COMMISSIONER  Dean C. Hilton
COMMISSIONER  Michael J. Suggs
 
 
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN CLERK            Brenda Clark
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR Timothy F. Frush
CHIEF OF POLICE       Edwin Bruce Smith
FIRE CHIEF            Dale E. Brennan
TOWN ATTORNEY         H. Clifton Hester
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF WHITE LAKE, NORTH
CAROLINA REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation , revision, and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and this ordinance take effect
an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF WHITE LAKE:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of White Lake North
Carolina.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinance as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
WHITE LAKE, NORTH CAROLINA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.    General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.    Town Officials
   31.    Town Policies
   32.    Police
   33.    Fire Department
   34.    Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.    Solid Waste
   51.    General Water and Sewer Provisions
   52.    Wastewater Discharge and Pollution Abatement
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.    Licensing, Traffic, and Parking Regulations
   71.    Traffic Schedules
   72.    Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.    Animals and Fowl
   91.    Fire Prevention and Protection
   92.    Abandoned, Nuisance, and Junked Vehicles
   93.    Parks and Recreation
   94.    Streets and Sidewalks
   95.    Parades and Demonstrations
   96.    Nuisances; Health and Sanitation
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.    General Operating and Licensing Procedures
   111.    Alcoholic Beverages
   112.    Amusements
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.    General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.    General Provisions
   151.    Buildings and Building Regulations
   152.    Flood Damage Prevention
   153.    Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   I.   Annexations
   II.    Boundary and Zoning Map Changes
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to North Carolina Code
   References to 1983 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the code.
Section 4.   Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5:   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take the earliest date provided
by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this thirteenth day of July, 2004.
                                                     /s/                     
                                 H. Goldston Womble, Jr., Mayor
ATTEST:
                /s/                     
Brenda Clark, Town Clerk
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
Section
   
1   Town incorporated; powers.
   
2   Corporate limits.
   
3   Governing body; voting by mayor.
   
4   Ordinances with respect to lake.
   
5   Taxation.
   
6   Election of mayor and commissioners-When held.
   
7   Same-Law applied.
   
8   Town as bird sanctuary.
   
9   Discharge of firearms.
   
10   Bingo; permit required.
   
11   Digging ditches below a certain level in certain areas.
Statutory reference:
   General laws supplementary to charters, see G.S. § 160A-3
Sec. 1.   Town incorporated; powers.
   There is hereby incorporated the Town of White Lake, in Bladen County, the
corporate limits of which are set forth in section 2, and which shall hereafter
possess all the corporate powers and be subject to all the provisions contained
in Chapter 160 of the General Statutes of North Carolina not inconsistent with
the provisions of this act.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 1)
Editor's note:
   G.S. Ch. 160 has been superseded by G.S. Ch. 160A.
Sec. 2.   Corporate limits.
   The corporate limits of the Town of White Lake in Bladen County shall be as
follows:  Beginning at a concrete monument at the water's edge of White Lake at
the western shore, said corner being the southeasternmost corner of Tildon
Walker Estates and the northernmost corner of a 30-foot strip of land owned by
the North Carolina Wildlife Commission and used as an access area to their
[sic] pier and runs thence with the southern line of Tildon Walker Estates and
the northern line of the North Carolina Wildlife Commission 30-foot tract south
55 degrees 02 minutes west 922.86 feet to a point in the southwestern 30-foot
right-ofway of North Carolina Highway No. 53 that leads from U.S. 701 highway
to Kelly; thence with the southwest 30-foot right-of-way of North Carolina
Highway No. 53 the following courses and distances: South 36 degrees 01 minutes
20 seconds east 2,967.35 feet, south 55 degrees 30 minutes 20 seconds east
2,347.13 feet, and south 51 degrees 52 minutes 20 seconds east 1,924.22 feet to
a point in said right-of-way; thence crossing said highway No. 53 to and with
the southern boundary of Timberlodge Village North 68 degrees 25 minutes 40
seconds east 637.56 feet to a point in the centerline of State Road No. 1515
(also known as "Lake Road"); thence south 82 degrees 56 minutes 40 seconds east
700.00 feet to a point; thence north 01 degree 36 minutes 16 seconds east
(approximately parallel to State Road 1515) 1,479.4  feet to a point opposite
Clearwater Beach (formerly Melvin's Beach); thence north 68 degrees 17 minutes
12 seconds east 127.72 feet to a point that lies 400 feet southeast of the
centerline of State Road 1515; thence parallel to and 400 feet south and east
of the centerline of State Road 1515 the following courses and distances: 
North 70 degrees 03 minutes east 1,236.71 feet, north 40 degrees 01 minutes
[sic] 40 seconds east (crossing Williams Street) 1,005.67 feet, north 19
degrees 30 minutes 20 seconds east 1,302.76 feet, north 6 degrees 46 minutes
west (crossing Carolina Ave. Ext.) 2,900.07 feet, north 36 degrees 42 minutes
40 seconds west (crossing Poole Ave. and Pineview Drive) 2,434.64 feet to a
point 400 feet northeast of the centerline of State Road No. 1515 opposite an
extension of Godwin Road; thence approximately parallel to State Road No. 1515,
north 40 degrees 21 minutes 36 seconds west 1,522.45 feet to a point located 18
feet northeast of the centerline of State Road No. 1515 and in the line of Mar-
Kei Beach's northwest boundary line as extended across said road; thence north
20 degrees 43 minutes 40 seconds east 783.44 feet to a point in the northern
30-foot right-of-way of North Carolina Highway No. 41 that leads from White
Lake to Harrells; thence with the northern 30-foot right-of-way of North
Carolina Highway No. 41 north 89 degrees 02 minutes 40 seconds west 450.10 feet
to a point in the centerline of U.S. Highway No. 701; thence with the
centerline of said U.S. Highway No. 701, south 19 degrees 33 minutes 40 seconds
west 19.65 feet to a point in the centerline and in line with the powerline
that runs along and parallel to the northern margin of the east-west runway of
Corbett's Airport; thence with the center of said powerline and beyond north 80
degrees 19 minutes 20 seconds west 3,197.95 feet to a point located 30 feet
north of the centerline of U.S. Highway No. 701; thence parallel to and 30 feet
north of the centerline of said highway, north 78 degrees 06 minutes 20 seconds
west 683.22 feet; thence continuing parallel to and 30 feet north of said
centerline of U.S. Highway 701, north 83 degrees 51 minutes 20 seconds west
222.43 feet to a point 30 feet north of said centerline and opposite the center
of Fred Keith's Drive, thence with the center of [Fred] Keith's Drive, south 3
degrees 46 minutes east 1104.35 feet to a point at the water's edge of White
Lake at the north shore; thence with the water's edge around the western shore
of White Lake with the properties of F.R. Keith and Tildon Walker Estates to
the beginning.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 2; Session Laws 1971, Ch. 602, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Corporate limits, see G.S. §§ 160A-21 et seq.
   Extension of corporate limits, see G.S.  §§ 160A-24 et seq.
Sec. 3.   Governing body; voting by mayor.
   (a)   Effective on the Monday after the special election provided by section
6 of this act, the governing body of the Town of White Lake shall consist of a
mayor and six (6) commissioners, to be elected by the qualified voters of the
municipality.  Until that date, the governing body of the Town of White Lake
shall consist of a mayor and three (3) commissioners.
   (b)   The mayor shall have the right to vote only when there are equal
numbers of votes in the affirmative and in the negative.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 3; Session Laws 1963, Ch. 339, § 1; Session Laws
1967, Ch. 200, § 1; Session Laws 1982, Ch. 1160, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Composition of governing body, see G.S. § 160A-66
   Mayor to preside, see G.S. § 160A-69
Sec. 4.   Ordinances with respect to lake.
   The governing body of the Town of White Lake is hereby authorized and
empowered to adopt ordinances with respect to the body of water in Bladen
County known as White Lake[,] which ordinances shall have the same force and
effect as if said lake were within the corporate limits of said town and said
[town's] police shall have the same powers as peace officers on said lake as
within the  corporate limits of said town.  Nothing in this section shall be
construed to repeal the authority vested in the department of conservation and
development by Chapters 113 and 146 of the General Statutes to make reasonable
rules and regulations relating to the use by the public of the waters of White
Lake in Bladen County, and the enforcement of such rules and regulations with
respect to such use.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 4; Session Laws 1957, Ch. 1168, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   "Department" defined to mean department of natural resources and community
development, see G.S. § 113-1
Sec. 5.   Taxation.
   The governing body of said town may levy taxes for the fiscal year, July 1,
1951, to June 30, 1952, at any time after the effective date of this act and do
all other things preliminary to making such levy as is by law provided.  The
list of real and personal property and polls within the corporate limits of the
Town of White Lake as listed for taxation in Bladen County, shall be used by
said town.  Taxpayers may prepay said taxes at any time after the tax rate is
fixed in 1951.  Taxes collected pursuant to said levy may be expended for and
during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1951, as well as for the ensuing year.
   In 1952 and thereafter, said town shall be subject to the general laws of
the state relating to the taxing powers of incorporated cities and towns.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 5)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal taxation, see G.S. § 160A-206
   Poll tax prohibited, see N.C. Const., Art. V, § 1
   Taxation, see G.S. Ch. 105
Sec. 6.   Election of mayor and commissioners-When held.
   In order to expand the size of the board of commissioners from three (3) to
six (6), a special municipal election shall be held on Tuesday, July 27, 1982,
provided that if the second primary is scheduled for another date, the special
municipal election shall occur on that other date.  At that election, the
candidate receiving the highest number of votes shall serve until a successor
is elected at the 1985 municipal election, the candidate receiving the second
highest number of votes shall serve until a successor is elected at the 1985
municipal election, and the candidate receiving the third highest number of
votes shall serve until a successor is elected at the 1983 municipal election.
   In 1983 and quadrennially thereafter, three (3) commissioners shall be
elected for four-year terms.  In 1985 and quadrennially thereafter, three (3)
commissioners shall be elected for four-year terms.  In 1983 and biennially
thereafter, a mayor shall be elected for a two-year term.  In 1995 and
quadriennially, thereafter, a mayor shall be elected for a four-year term.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 6; Session Laws 1963, Ch. 339, § 2; Session Laws
1967, Ch. 200, § 2; Session Laws 1982, Ch. 1160, § 2; Ord. of 4-12-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Officers to hold over until successors qualified, see G.S. § 160A-62
   Qualifications for elective office, see G.S. § 160A-59
Sec. 7.   Same-Law applied.
   Except as otherwise provided in this act, all municipal elections in the
Town of White Lake shall be held in accordance with the provisions of
Subchapter IX of Chapter 163 of the General Statutes.
(Session Laws 1951, Ch. 511, § 7; Session Laws  1963, Ch. 339, § 3; Session
Laws 1967, Ch. 200, § 4; Session Laws 1982, Ch. 1160, § 4)
Statutory reference:
   Conduct of municipal elections, see G.S. §§ 163-291 et seq.
   Municipal election procedure, see G.S. § 163-279
Sec. 8.   Town as bird sanctuary.
   From and after the ratification of this act, all that territory embraced
within the territorial limits of the Town of White Lake in Bladen County shall
be a bird sanctuary.
(Session Laws 1961, Ch. 424, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Bird sanctuaries, see G.S. § 160A-188
Sec. 9.   Discharge of firearms.
   From and after the ratification of this act, it shall be unlawful for any
person, except law enforcement officers in the conduct of their duties, to
discharge a firearm of any type within the corporate limits of the Town of
White Lake.  Any person violating the provisions of this act shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not more than fifty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned not more than thirty (30) days.
(Session Laws 1961, Ch. 424, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
Sec. 10.   Bingo; permit required.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to operate the game of bingo in
the Town of White Lake, in Bladen County, shall make application to the
governing body of said town for a permit to do so and the application shall
contain the following:
   (1)   Name and residence of the applicant and the length of his residence
within the State of North Carolina.
   (2)   The particular place for which the permit is desired, designating the
same by a street and number, if practicable; if not, by such other apt
description as definitely locates it.
   (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the business
permitted is to be carried on.
   (4)   That the applicant intends to carry on the business authorized by the
permit for himself or under his immediate supervision and direction.
   (5)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen and resident of North
Carolina and not less than twenty-one (21) years of age; that he has never been
convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude; and that he has
not, within the last two (2) years prior to the filing of the application, been
adjudged guilty of violating the prohibition laws, either state or federal.
   The application must be verified by the affidavit of the petitioner made
before a notary public or other person duly authorized by law to administer
oaths.  If it appears from the statement of the applicant or otherwise that he
has at any time been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude, or that he has, within the two (2) years prior to the filing of the
application, been adjudged guilty of violating the prohibition laws, either
state or federal, or that he has[,] within two (2) years prior to the filing of
the application[,] completed a sentence for violation of the prohibition laws,
such permit shall not be granted.  If it appears that any false statement is
knowingly made in any part of the application and permit is received thereon,
the permit shall be revoked and the applicant subjected to the penalty provided
by law for misdemeanors.  Before issuing a permit, the governing body of the
municipality shall be satisfied that the statements required by subsections
(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this section are true.
   The governing board shall not issue a permit under this section to any
person, or firm, or corporation who has not been a bona fide resident of North
Carolina and a citizen of the United States for one year.  No resident of the
state shall obtain a permit under this section and employ or receive aid from a
nonresident for the purpose of defeating this requirement.
(Session Laws 1957, Ch. 1387, § 1)
Sec. 11.   Digging ditches below a certain level in certain areas.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig any ditch
under any portions of U.S. Highway No. 701, N.C. Highway No. 53 and S.R. 1515
which surround that body of water in Bladen County known as White Lake, below
sixty-six (66) feet above sea level, except for the Town of White Lake, after
first having obtained a written permit from the State Highway Commission or its
duly authorized officers, as provided in G.S. 136-93, in the installation,
repair and maintenance of its water and sewer mains and lines or storm or
drainage sewer lines.
   If any person shall violate the provisions of this act he shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and may be fined or imprisoned in the discretion of the court.
(Session Laws 1971, Ch. 570, §§ 1, 2; Session Laws 1973, Ch. 252, § 1; Session
Laws 1987, Ch. 116, § 1)
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   10.01   Title of code
   10.02   Interpretation
   10.03   Application to future ordinances
   10.04   Captions
   10.05   Definitions
   10.06   Rules of interpretation
   10.07   Severability
   10.08   Reference to other sections
   10.09   Reference to offices
   10.10   Errors and omissions
   10.11   Official time
   10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   10.13   Ordinances repealed
   10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of White Lake shall be
designated as the Code of White Lake, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary, and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The governing body of the Town of White Lake,
North Carolina.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of White Lake, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Bladen County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TOWN.  The Town of White Lake, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent; the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal, or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section, or
division, or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from
this code by omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: "Section              
of the Code of Ordinances, Town of White Lake, North Carolina, is hereby
amended as follows...."  The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Town of White Lake, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...."  The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter, or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. passed 5-13-1960; Am.
Ord. passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-1985).
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1983 and subsequently amended, the 1983
code section number shall be indicated in the history by "(1983 Code, §      
)."
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), any  person, firm, or corporation
violating any of the provisions of any section or division of this code of
ordinances for which no other penalty is provided, or failing or neglecting or
refusing to comply with same, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500.  No fine shall exceed $50
unless the ordinance expressly states that the maximum fine is greater than
$50.
   (B)   If any person shall violate an ordinance of a county, city, or town
regulating the operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible
for an infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.    TOWN OFFICIALS
      
31.   TOWN POLICIES
      
32.   POLICE
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   30.01   Conduct of elections
   30.02   Candidates’ filing fee
   30.03   Appointments by Board of Commissioners
   30.04   Duties of Mayor
   30.05   Powers and duties of Commissioners
   30.06   Annual audit
   30.07   Town records
   30.08   Payment of expenses
Meetings and Hearings
   30.20   Time of meetings
   30.21   Meetings open to public
   30.22   Conduct of meetings
   30.23   Special meetings
   30.24   Adjourned and recessed meetings
   30.25   Minutes
   30.26   Cost and deposit for public hearings
Charter reference:
   Election of Mayor and Commissioners, see §§
6 and
7
   Governing body; voting by Mayor, see §
3
   Jurisdiction over lake, see §
4
   Powers generally, see §
1
Statutory reference:
   Enactment and enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. §§ 160A-174 et seq.
   Form of government, see G.S. §§ 160A-59 et seq.
   Local government retirement system, see G.S. §§ 128-21 et seq.
   Municipal elections, see G.S. §§ 163-279 et seq.
   Personnel, see G.S. §§ 160A-162 et seq.
   State Occupational Safety and Health Act, see G.S. §§ 95-126 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   The County Board of Elections is hereby authorized to conduct the town’s
elections, as provided in G.S. § 163-285.  The registration record of the
County Board of Elections shall be the official registration record of voters
to vote in the town elections, as provided in G.S. § 163-288.  The cost of
conducting the elections shall be paid by the town to the county, as provided
by statute.
(1983 Code, § 2-1)  (Res. passed 6-6-1974)
§ 30.02  CANDIDATES’ FILING FEE.
   The filing fee for those electing to run for Commissioners of the town may
be changed from time to time by the municipal governing body.
(1983 Code, § 2-2)  (Motion passed 3-7-1953)
Statutory reference:
   Candidates’ filing fee, see G.S. §§ 163-291 and 163-294.2
§ 30.03  APPOINTMENTS BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Commissioners, at its first regular
meeting each year, to elect, or provide for the appointment of, the following
officers:
   (A)   Mayor Pro Tempore;
   (B)   Town Clerk;
   (C)   Chief of Police;
   (D)   Town Attorney;
   (E)   Tax Collector;
   (F)   Finance Officer;
   (G)   Water and Sewage Superintendent;
   (H)   Budget Officer; and
   (I)   Zoning Inspector.
(1983 Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.04  DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at and conduct the meetings of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Mayor is designated as the officer to prepare and file the sworn
statements of indebtedness required by the Local Government Finance Act, after
a bond order has been introduced and before the public hearing thereon; and
also to determine the amount to be inserted in any statement as the estimated
amount of any special assessments thereafter to be levied on account of local
improvements for which any part of the gross debt set forth in the statement
was or is to be incurred, and which, when collected, will be applied to the
payment of the gross debt.
(1983 Code, § 2-4)  (Res. passed 8-26-1960)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
   Mayor to preside over council, see G.S. § 160A-69
   Sworn statement of debt, see G.S. § 159-55
§ 30.05  POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONERS.
   Each member of the Board of Commissioners shall be involved, along with the
Mayor, the Town Clerk, and the Public Works Director, in the function of the
department that the Commissioner has been appointed to direct.  Further, the
Commissioner, with the cooperation of the Mayor, the Town Clerk, and the Public
Works Director, shall be adviser on all transactions that the department
requires, such as, but not limited to, phone calls, written correspondence,
seeking services and supplies, negotiating with engineers and contractors, and
letting contracts and authorizing payments.
(1983 Code, § 2-4.1)  (Motion passed 5-17-1983)
Editor’s note:
   Section 30.05 is derived from a nonamendatory motion.
§ 30.06  ANNUAL AUDIT.
   As provided by state law, there shall be an annual audit of the books,
accounts, records, and all finances of the town by certified public accountant
or an accountant approved by the North Carolina Local Government Commission.
(1983 Code, § 2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Annual independent audit, see G.S. § 159-34
§ 30.07  TOWN RECORDS.
(A)   (1)   The Clerk shall be allowed to dispose of records, as permitted by
G.S. § 121-5.
   (2)   The Mayor shall be in agreement with the Clerk as to what is to be
discarded.
(Motion passed 10-4-1983)
(B)   (1)   The municipal records retention and disposition schedule approved
by the State Division of Archives and History and the Department of Cultural
Resources has been adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (2)   The schedule is on file in the Clerk’s office.
(Motion passed 8-20-1985)
(1983 Code, § 2-11.1)
Editor’s note:
   Provisions of a nonamendatory motion of 10-4-1983 have been codified as §
30.07(A).  A nonamendatory motion of 8-20-1985 has also been included as §
30.07(B).
§ 30.08  PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Mayor and Commissioners.  The Mayor and Commissioners shall be
reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by them while they are on town
business.
(1983 Code, § 2-12)  (Motion passed 1-6-1970)
   (B)   Mileage.  Town employees and officials who travel by private cars on
town business shall be reimbursed for their travel expense at the current IRS
rate.
(1983 Code, § 2-13)  (Motion passed 4-5-1974; Am. Motion passed 7-10-1990; Am.
Motion passed 10-11-2005)
   (C)   Meals.  Any official or employee of the town who is away from the town
on town business shall be reimbursed for actual meal expenses not to exceed the
limits determined by the Board.
(1983 Code, § 2-14)  (Motion passed 11-5-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Expense allowances of employees, see G.S. § 160A-162
   Reimbursement of expenses, see G.S. § 160A-64
MEETINGS AND HEARINGS
§ 30.20  TIME OF MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners shall be held on the
second Tuesday in each month at 7:00 p.m. at the Town Hall.
(1983 Code, § 2-5)  (Motion passed 1-3-1974; Am. Motion passed 8-1-1980; Am.
Motion passed 3-4-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of governing body, see G.S. § 160A-71
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 30.21  MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the Board of Commissioners, whether regular or special,
shall be open to the public, except when the Board sits in executive session.
(1983 Code, § 2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Executive sessions, see G.S. § 143-318.11
   Public meetings of public bodies, see G.S. § 143-318.10
§ 30.22  CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Parliamentarian.  The Town Attorney is appointed to the position of
Parliamentarian, and is requested to instruct the Board on proper procedures
for Board meetings and to guide the meetings in the direction of being more
orderly and efficient. Further, the Town Attorney is requested to interrupt the
proceedings to instruct when the Attorney deems it necessary.
   (B)   Rules of procedure.  The Board hereby adopts Suggested Rules of
Procedure for a City Council, as written by the Institute of Government, with
Robert’s Rules of Order to be used to the extent not provided for by these
rules; and, to the extent that it does not conflict with the spirit of these
rules, the Board shall refer to Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised, for
unresolved procedural questions.
(1983 Code, § 2-6.1)  (Motions passed 5-17-1983)
§ 30.23  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the Board may
at any time call a special Board meeting by signing a written notice stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.  The
notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Commissioner, or left at his or
her usual dwelling place, at least six hours before the meeting.  Only those
items of business specified in the notice may be transacted at a special
meeting, unless all members are present or have signed a written waiver of
notice.
   (B)   Special meetings may be held at any time when the Mayor and all
members of the Board are present and consent thereto, or when those not present
have signed a written waiver of notice.
   (C)   Except in the case of an emergency meeting, the Board shall cause
written notice of the meeting, stating its purpose, to be posted on the
principal bulletin board of the Board or, if the Board has no bulletin board,
at the door of its usual meeting room; and to be mailed or delivered to each
newspaper, wire service, radio station, and television station which has filed
a written request for notice with the Clerk or with some other person
designated by the Board.  The Board shall also cause notice to be mailed or
delivered to any person, in addition to the representatives of the media listed
above, who has filed a written request with the Clerk or other person
designated by the Board.  This notice shall be posted and mailed or delivered
at least 48 hours before the time of the meeting.  The Board may require each
newspaper, wire service, radio station, and television station submitting a
written request for notice to renew the request annually.  The Board shall
charge a fee, determined by the Board from time to time, to persons, other than
the media, who request notice and may require them to renew their requests
quarterly.  A person or persons calling a special meeting of the Board shall
comply with any other notice requirements of G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq.
(1983 Code, § 2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 143-318.12 and 160A-71
§ 30.24  ADJOURNED AND RECESSED MEETINGS.
   Any regular or duly called special meeting of the Board may be recessed to
reconvene at a time and place certain, or may be adjourned to reconvene at a
time and place certain, by the Board.
(1983 Code, § 2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.25  MINUTES.
   Full and accurate minutes of the Board proceedings shall be kept by the
Clerk, and shall be open to the inspection of the public.  The results of each
vote shall be recorded in the minutes and, upon the request of any member of
the Board, the ayes and noes upon any question shall be taken.  Every
resolution or order adopted or made by the Board of Commissioners, as also
every petition submitted to it, if not set out in full in the minutes, shall be
filed in an exhibit book and, by proper reference, shall be made part of the
minutes.  The minutes of each meeting shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners and shall be signed by the Mayor and by the Clerk.  The minutes
shall be public and shall constitute part of the archives of the town.
(1983 Code, § 2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Minutes, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 30.26  COST AND DEPOSIT FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The actual cost of a public hearing shall be paid by the petitioner,
and a deposit, to be determined by the Board from time to time, shall be made
by the petitioner at the time of the application for a zoning change,
annexation, or any other action requiring a public hearing.
   (B)   The fee to hold a variance hearing shall be set by the Board, from
time to time, to be paid in advance by the petitioner.
(1983 Code, § 2-8)  (Res. passed 1-3-1977; Am. Motion passed 4-2-1981; Am.
Motion passed 9-3-1981; Am. Motion passed 5-25-1982; Am. Motion passed 5-13-
1986)
Statutory reference:
   Conduct of public hearings, see G.S. § 160A-81
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
   31.01   State of emergency; proclamations
   31.02   Smoking in municipal buildings and vehicles
   31.03   Concealed weapons; posting of signs prohibiting in municipal parks
and buildings
 
   31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01  STATE OF EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATIONS.
   (A)   Imposition of prohibitions and restrictions.
      (1)   Defined; restrictions authorized.
         (a)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during
times of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain
public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, or property, or
whenever the occurrence of any condition is imminent.
         (b)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
Town of White Lake or any part thereof, or threatening damage to or destruction
of property, the Mayor of White Lake is hereby authorized and empowered under
G.S. § 166A-8 to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect
the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect any or all
of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
         (c)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit, by the
proclamation, the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the town limits and to
specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the
restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of their
respective duties, law enforcement officers, fire fighters, and other public
employees; rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and
other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal;
on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within the town.
      (2)   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions.
         (a)   The Mayor of the Town of White Lake, by proclamation, may impose
the prohibitions and restrictions specified in divisions (A)(3) through (A)(8)
below in the manner described in those divisions.  The Mayor may impose as many
of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she finds are
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services and to protect lives, safety, and property.  The Mayor shall
recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
         (b)   The proclamation shall be in writing.  The Mayor shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall.  The Mayor shall
send reports of the substance of the proclamation to the mass communications
media which serves the affected area.  The Mayor shall retain a text of the
proclamation and furnish, upon request, certified copies of it for use as
evidence.
      (3)   Evacuation.  The Mayor may direct and compel the evacuation of all
or part of the population of the Town of White Lake; to prescribe routes, modes
of transportation, and destinations in connection with evacuation; and to
control ingress and egress of a disaster area, the movement of persons within
the area, and the occupancy of premises therein.  Details of the evacuation may
be set forth or amended in a subsequent proclamation which shall be well-
publicized.
      (4)   Curfew.
         (a)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting, in certain
areas and during certain periods, the appearance in public of anyone who is not
a member of an exempted class.  The proclamation shall specify the geographical
area or areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew
applies.  The Mayor may exempt, from some or all of the curfew restrictions,
classes of people whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the
preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare.  The proclamation shall
state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
         (b)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall
apply during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by proclamation,
removes the curfew.
      (5)   Restrictions on possession, consumption, or transfer of alcoholic
beverages.  The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
alcoholic beverage; including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor; other than on
one’s own premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale, or
purchase of any alcoholic beverage within the area of the town described in the
proclamation.  The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic
beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by
anyone else within the geographical area described.
      (6)   Restriction on possession, transportation, and transfer of
dangerous weapons and substances.
         (a)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession
off one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase, of any dangerous weapon or
substance.  The Mayor may exempt, from some or all of the restrictions, classes
of people whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public’s health,
safety, or welfare.  The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE.
               a.   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary
device, radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c),
gasoline, or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a
threat of serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
               b.   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being
used to inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so used; or
               c.   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance
included above, when the circumstances indicate a probability that the part or
ingredient will be so used.
         (c)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the
jurisdiction of the town or the part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
      (7)   Restrictions on access to areas.
         (a)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access, or attempting to
obtain access, to any area, designated in the manner described in this section,
in violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
         (b)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be
designated by the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when directed in
the proclamation to do so by the Mayor.  When acting under this authority, the
Chief of Police and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any
area, street, highway, or location within the town, if that restriction or
denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made
to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
      (8)   Other restrictions.  The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
         (a)   Movements of people in public places;
         (b)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other
places to or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
         (c)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
      (9)   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions.  The Mayor shall, by
proclamation, terminate the entire declaration of emergency or remove the
prohibitions and restrictions as the emergency no longer requires them, or when
directed to do so by the Town Board.
      (10)   Superseding and amendatory proclamations.  The Mayor, in his or
her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized by this section in
separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by means of a
superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth in
division (A)(2) above.
      (11)   Termination of proclamation.  Any proclamation issued under this
section shall expire five days after its last imposition, unless sooner
terminated in writing, under the same procedures set forth in division (A)(2)
above for proclamations.
      (12)   In case of absence or disability of Mayor.  In case of the absence
or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or the other person as may
be designated by the Town Board, shall have and exercise all of the powers
herein given the Mayor.
(1983 Code, § 2-15)  (Ord. passed 4-26-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-4-1986)
   (B)   Proclamation forms.  The proclamation of a municipal state of
emergency and the proclamation terminating a municipal state of emergency shall
be in substantially the following forms.
   (1)   Proclamation of a municipal state of emergency.
“Proclamation of a Municipal State of Emergency
Section 1.  Pursuant to Town Ordinance ____ and Chapters 166A and 14-288 of the
North Carolina General Statutes, I have determined that a State of Emergency,
as defined in Town Ordinance ____, exists in the Town of White Lake.
Section 2.  I, therefore, proclaim the existence of a State of Emergency in the
Town of White Lake.
Section 3.  I hereby order all town law enforcement officers and employees and
all other emergency management personnel subject to my control to cooperate in
the enforcement and implementation of the provisions of the town emergency
ordinances which are set forth below.
Section 4.  Evacuation.  I have determined that, in the best interest of public
safety and protection, it is necessary to evacuate the civilian population from
the Town of White Lake.  Citizens are free to use any type of transportation,
but they are to use only ____ in leaving the town.  Evacuation is to occur as
soon as possible.  Further proclamation concerning evacuation will be issued as
needed.
Section 5.  Curfew.  Unless one is a member of the town’s law enforcement
agency or the emergency management program, every person who is located within
a ____ radius of ____ is to be inside a house or dwelling from the hours of
____ to ____.
Section 6.  No Alcoholic Beverages.  There shall be no sale, consumption,
transportation, or possession of alcoholic beverages during the State of
Emergency in the Town of White Lake.
Section 7.  No Firearms, Ammunition, or Explosives.  During the State of
Emergency, there shall be no sale or purchase of any type of firearm or
ammunition, or any possession of such items along with any type of explosive
off owner’s own premises.
Section 8.  Execution of Emergency Plan.  All civilians and emergency
management personnel are ordered to comply with the emergency reaction plan.
Section 9.  This proclamation shall become effective immediately.  Proclaimed
this the ____ day of ____, at ____ (am/pm).
__________________
Mayor of White Lake”
   (2)   Proclamation terminating a municipal state of emergency.
“Proclamation Terminating a Municipal State of Emergency
Section 1.  On ____, at ____ (am/pm), I determined and proclaimed a local State
of Emergency for the ____.
Section 2.  On ____, at ____ (am/pm), I ordered the evacuation of all civilians
from the area, imposed a curfew, prohibited alcoholic beverages, firearms,
ammunition and explosives, and ordered the execution of the emergency reaction
plan.
Section 3.  I have determined that a State of Emergency no longer exists in the
Town of White Lake.
Section 4.  I thereby terminate the proclamation of a local State of Emergency
and all of the restrictions and orders therein.
Section 5.  This proclamation is effective immediately. Proclaimed this the
____ day of ____, at ____ (am/pm).
__________________
Mayor of White Lake”
(1983 Code, § 2-16)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1986)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.02  SMOKING IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKING.  The inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying of a lighted pipe,
cigar, cigarette, or other combustible tobacco product.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings.  It shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke in any building or facility, or portion of a building or
facility, now or hereafter owned, leased, operated, occupied, managed, or
controlled by the Town of White Lake, except in specially designated smoking
areas.  The Town Board and/or Mayor shall have the authority to designate
smoking areas within each Town of White Lake building or facility.  An area
within any building or facility may be designated as a smoking area only if the
ventilation of the area is sufficient, any adverse impact on municipal
employees and members of the public is minimal, and no fire or other safety
hazard will be created by smoking in the area.
   (C)   Exceptions.  It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any
vehicle owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the Town of White Lake.
(1983 Code, § 2-17)  (Ord. passed 10-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-2008) 
Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.03  CONCEALED WEAPONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING IN MUNICIPAL PARKS AND
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Posting of signs required.  The Town Board is hereby authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building, or portion of a building, owned, leased as lessee
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indication that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs.  Signs on building shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building. 
The Town Board shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and parks. (1983 Code, § 2-18) 
(Ord. passed 1-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-415.11(c)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by §
31.01(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(1983 Code, § 2-15)  (Ord. passed 4-26-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-4-1986)
   (B)   Violation of § 31.02 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty at
the discretion of the Board to be recovered by the town.
(1983 Code, § 2-17)  (Ord. passed 10-12-1993)
CHAPTER 32:  POLICE
Section
   32.01   Off-duty court attendance
   32.02   Overtime wages
Charter reference:
   Jurisdiction over lake, see §
4
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to law enforcement officers, see G.S. § 15A-405
   Law enforcement, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
   Resisting officers, see G.S. § 14-223
§ 32.01  OFF-DUTY COURT ATTENDANCE.
   When town police officers are required to be in court during their time off,
they shall be paid for their actual time, not to exceed four hours, for any
single day and, if required to be in court before lunch and required to go back
to court after lunch, an allowance, to be determined by the Board of
Commissioners from time to time, to cover the cost of the police officer’s
lunch.
(1983 Code, § 13-1)  (Motion passed 9-3-1979)
§ 32.02  OVERTIME WAGES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby claims the exemption of § 7(k) of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, so as to make law enforcement
personnel eligible for overtime wages only for time worked in excess of the
maximum total permitted per designated work period.
   (B)   The law enforcement employees of the town shall work on a work period
of 28 days in length.
   (C)   This section shall affect only those law enforcement personnel who are
eligible for the § 7(k) exemption.
(1983 Code, § 13-2)  (Res. passed 4-3-1975)
CHAPTER 33:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   33.01   Creation
   33.02   Officers; generally
   33.03   Appointments
   33.04   Car insignia
   33.05   Police powers
   33.06   Suspensions; removals
   33.07   Hazardous material discharge
Chief of the Fire Department
   33.20   Appointment; term; qualifications; removal
   33.21   Accountability of Chief and the like
   33.22   Rules; responsibility to Board
   33.23   Companies; generally
   33.24   Drills; instruction; studies
   33.25   Investigation of fires
   33.26   Inspections
   33.27   Records
   33.28   Report
Equipment
   33.40   Generally
   33.41   Purchase
   33.42   Storage
   33.43   Use for private purpose or without authority
   33.44   Trespass and the like
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Ch. 91
Statutory reference:
   Duties of fire chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  CREATION.
   The White Lake Fire Department (the Department), the object of which shall
be Fire Prevention, Wild Fire Suppression, First Responders, Rescue and
Extrication, Hazmat Awareness, Lead Agency during disasters, and the protection
of life and property within the corporate limits of the town, White Lake Six-
Mile Fire District and Automatic Aid is hereby created.
(1983 Code, § 7-15)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to create fire department, see G.S. § 160A-291
§ 33.02  OFFICERS; GENERALLY.
   The Department shall consist of a Chief, Deputy Chief, and other officers as
the Chief and Board of Commissioners may deem necessary for the effective
operation of the Department.
(1983 Code, § 7-16)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-2008)
§ 33.03  APPOINTMENTS.
   The membership of the Department (Deputy Chief, Assistant Chiefs, Department
officers, and the like) shall consist of persons as may be appointed by the
Chief and shall be able-bodied citizens residing within the town or White Lake
Six-Mile Fire District. Determination of whether candidates for appointment are
able-bodied shall be made by the Chief after a criminal background check has
been completed and a medical and physical examination has been made in a manner
prescribed by the Chief and approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(1983 Code, § 7-17)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-2008)
§ 33.04  CAR INSIGNIA.
   Each member of the Department driving a car shall be issued a suitable
insignia to be attached to the car.
(1983 Code, § 7-18)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Tag on decal for firemen, see G.S. § 160A-213
§ 33.05  POLICE POWERS.
   All regularly appointed members of the Department are hereby given the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter and
Chapter 91.
(1983 Code, § 7-19)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of firemen, see G.S. § 58-82-1
§ 33.06  SUSPENSIONS; REMOVALS.
   Any member of the Department may be suspended or discharged from the
Department by the Chief at any time he or she may deem the action necessary for
the good of the Department.  On written request of the member to the Board of
Commissioners, he or she shall be given a public hearing on the charges brought
by the Chief.
(1983 Code, § 7-21)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.07  HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DISCHARGE.
   When the Fire Chief deems it necessary that mitigation means must be
initiated to contain hazardous material spills, all costs shall be borne by the
owner, operator, or other person responsible for the release.  In the event of
hazardous material spills, the Fire Chief will take responsibility to inform
the Finance Office to bill the owner, operator, or other person responsible for
the release.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHIEF OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.20  APPOINTMENT; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS; REMOVAL.
   The Chief of the Fire Department (the Chief) shall be appointed by the Board
of Commissioners for an indefinite period of time, and his or her tenure of
office shall depend upon his or her good conduct and efficiency.  The Chief
shall be technically qualified by training and experience and shall have
ability to command other persons and hold their respect and confidence.  He or
she shall be removed only for just cause and after a public hearing before the
Board of Commissioners.
(1983 Code, § 7-33)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.21  ACCOUNTABILITY OF CHIEF AND THE LIKE.
   The Chief shall be held accountable to the Board of Commissioners only, and
shall make written and verbal reports thereto as the Board may require.  All
other Department officers shall be accountable to the Chief only, and shall be
subject to removal by him or her.
(1983 Code, § 7-34)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.22  RULES; RESPONSIBILITY TO BOARD.
   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern the
Department, and shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners for the
personnel, morale, and general efficiency of the Department.
(1983 Code, § 7-35)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.23  COMPANIES; GENERALLY.
   The Chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of which the
Department is to be composed and shall determine the response of the companies
to alarms.
(1983 Code, § 7-36)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.24  DRILLS; INSTRUCTION; STUDIES.
   The Chief shall at least twice a month conduct suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue
work, salvage, a study of buildings in the town, fire prevention, water
supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire. A Study and Pre-Fire
Plan of commercial buildings shall be done annually.
(1983 Code, § 7-37)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-2008)
§ 33.25  INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in suppressing
the crime of arson by investigating, or causing to be investigated, the cause,
origin, and circumstances of all fires.
(1983 Code, § 7-38)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Fires investigated, G.S. § 58-79-1
§ 33.26  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authorized.  The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all
buildings and premises at any reasonable hour, upon the presentation of
credentials, for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written notice
upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire
hazards that may be found.
(1983 Code, § 7-39) 
   (B)   Compliance with notice.  Any person served, under division (A) above,
with a notice to abate any fire hazard or hazards shall comply therewith and
promptly notify the Chief.
(1983 Code, § 7-40)
(Res. passed 4-20-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of premises; dangerous material removed, see G.S. § 58-79-20
§ 33.27  RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel, and other information
about the work of the Department.
   (B)   Records of all incident reports shall be kept on file for a period of
three years.  Reports shall be sent electronically to the Office of State Fire
Marshal quarterly. 
   (C)   Annual pump and service test shall be conducted on each pumper. 
Ladder test shall be conducted each year on the ladder truck.  All testing
shall be conducted to NFPA and OSFM standards with copies on file with the
OSFM, the Fire Department and the Town Clerk’s office.
(1983 Code, § 7-41)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-2008)
§ 33.28  REPORT.
   (A)   Monthly.  The Chief shall report monthly to the Board of
Commissioners:  the conditions of the apparatus and equipment; the number of
fires during the month, their location and cause, and the date of same and loss
occasioned thereby; the number and purpose of all other runs made; the number
of members responding to each fire or other run; and any changes in membership.
(1983 Code, § 7-42)
   (B)   Annually.  The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the Board
of Commissioners, within one month after the close of the calendar year, to
include the information specified in §
33.27, together with comparative data for previous years and recommendations
for improving the effectiveness of the Department.
(1983 Code, § 7-43) (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
EQUIPMENT
§ 33.40  GENERALLY.
   The Department shall be equipped with the apparatus and other equipment as
may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and properly
protect life and property from fire.
(1983 Code, § 7-55)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.41  PURCHASE.
   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by the Chief
and, after approval by the Board of Commissioners, shall be purchased in the
manner as may be designated by the Board.
(1983 Code, § 7-56)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.42  STORAGE.
   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently housed in
the places as may be designated by the Board of Commissioners.
(1983 Code, § 7-57)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 33.43  USE FOR PRIVATE PURPOSE OR WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away or conceal
any article used in any way by the Department.
(1983 Code, § 7-59)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.44  TRESPASS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any
apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department, unless accompanied by, or
having the special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the
Department.
(1983 Code, § 7-60)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34:  TAXATION
Section
   34.01   Discounts
Charter reference:
   Taxation, see §
5
Statutory reference:
   Municipal taxation, see G.S. § 160A-206
   Taxation, see G.S. Ch. 105
§ 34.01  DISCOUNTS.
   All ad valorem taxes paid after January 5 of the succeeding year will be
subject to penalties assessed in accordance with G.S. § 105-350.
(1983 Code, § 16-1)  (Res. passed 10-3-1974; Am. Ord. passed 3-10-2009; Am.
Ord. passed 4-1-2010)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
      
52.   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE AND POLLUTION ABATEMENT
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection practices
   
50.03   Containers
   
50.04   Pre-collection practices
   
50.05   Storing of refuse
   
50.06   Point of collection
   
50.07   Private collection and disposal
   
50.08   Fees
   
50.09   Littering
   
50.10   Dumpsite
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see G.S. § 14-399
   Trash and garbage, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES.  Refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible material.
   BUILDING RUBBISH.  Rubbish from construction, remodeling, and repair
operations on houses, commercial buildings, and other structures, including,
but not limited to, excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete,
and waste parts occasioned by installations and replacements.
   BUSINESS BUILDING.  Any structure, whether public or private, that is
adapted for transaction of business, for rendering of professional services,
for amusement, for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
articles, or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
abattoirs, warehouses, sheds, barns, and other structures on premises used for
or adapted to business purposes.
   GARBAGE.  Animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessary or incident thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  Sawdust, shavings, feathers, excelsior, cartons, boxes,
metal, glass, paper, wood, textiles, chemicals, plastic, or other waste
materials from processing plants, factories, or manufacturing operations.
   REFUSE.  Solid waste, including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, and
ashes.
   RUBBISH.  Refuse (exclusive of garbage and ashes), including, but not
limited to, paper; rags; cartons; boxes; wood; excelsior; rubber; leather;
tree, bush, and hedge branches, cuttings, and trimmings; yard trimmings; grass;
leaves; tin cans; metals; small mineral matter; glass; crockery; dirt; earth;
and dust.
   WASTE.  Useless, unused, unwanted, or discarded materials resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids, and gases.
(1983 Code, § 14-11)  (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
§ 50.02  COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except in case of
emergency arising from an act of God or under circumstances over which the
Sanitation Department has no control, the Department shall collect, remove, and
dispose of certain refuse in residential sections of the town at least once per
week,  and from business buildings at least twice per week, and, where deemed
necessary by the Sanitation Department Director, daily.
   (B)   Industrial waste shall be collected, removed, and disposed of by the
operator of the factory, plant, or enterprise creating or causing the same, in
accordance with applicable provisions of this code.
   (C)   Building rubbish shall be collected, removed, and disposed of by the
contractor or builder or, if they fail to do so, by the owner of the property.
   (D)   Where refuse accumulates at business locations within the corporate
limits, the owner or lessor shall be required to furnish and use sufficient
automatic containers for the disposal of the refuse.
   (E)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, hauling, or
transporting in the town any waste without first obtaining a permit from the
Board of Commissioners, as herein prescribed and regulated.
(1983 Code, § 14-12)  (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Every person occupying a house or residence in the residential area
where garbage or refuse exists shall be provided containers by the contract
solid waste provider.  Each container shall be provided with handles and with a
tight-fitting cover made of the same material as the container.  The containers
must not have more than a 55-gallon capacity.  Each home and business building
shall have a sufficient number of containers to hold the refuse until
collected.
      (2)   All persons doing business in a business building within the city
limits shall be provided containers as outlined in this section, unless deemed
obsolete by the Director of Sanitation.
      (3)   No wooden boxes, pails, or other wooden or cardboard containers
shall be used for garbage and refuse and, if used, shall be confiscated by the
town.
      (4)   No person shall throw, drop, or deposit any leaves, shrubs, or
other debris into any catch basin or manhole in the city.
      (5)   Any person may have leaves or grass removed by the town, if the
leaves or grass are placed at the curbline between the curb and sidewalk so
that they may be easily handled by collectors; provided that the leaves or
grass are placed in plastic disposable bags and tied securely so that the
contents will not spill from the bags.  No tree limbs, shrubs, or other
material shall be mixed with leaves or grass.  The leaves or grass shall be
collected on days designated for collection.
(1983 Code, § 14-13)
   (B)   Automatic.  Waterproof, odorproof containers, in size as prescribed by
the town so as to fit the garbage pickup trucks’ automatic lift equipment, may
be used.
(1983 Code, § 14-14) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   All garbage and refuse shall have liquid drained therefrom before it
is placed in the container for collection.  All lids to containers shall fit
tight after containers are filled.
   (B)   Any person desiring to place tree trimmings, hedge cuttings, grass, or
similar materials for free collection shall cause the material to be placed on
the curbline at the street on the area between the sidewalk and the curb on the
day designated for pickup.  Free collections shall include nothing more than
sevens inches in diameter nor more than 48 inches in length. 
   (C)   All cardboard boxes shall be crushed flat before collection.
   (D)   No person shall burn leaves, shrubs, trees, limbs, and the like on the
streets or sidewalks or on private property, except upon special permission of
the Chief of the Fire Department.
(1983 Code, § 14-15)  (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  STORING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Every owner and every occupant or other person in control of any
building or land in the town, including vacant property, shall keep the same in
a clean and orderly condition and shall deposit refuse for collection in
accordance with the provisions of this code and the regulations of the Director
of Sanitation.  Combustible and noncombustible refuse shall be stored in
containers complying with this code.
   (B)   No person shall throw, drop, or deposit, or cause to be thrown,
dropped, or deposited, on any land in the town, vacant or occupied (including,
specifically, streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public and other semi-
public areas) or in all waters under jurisdiction of the town, any waste
(including, but not limited to, refuse, garbage, ashes, rubbish, dead animals
or fish, paper, drinking cups, broken glass, tacks, brush, grass, weeds, and
anything injurious to health).  If any person, while transporting or hauling,
or causing to be transported or hauled, the rubbish, or material, or earth
excavation, coal, or other material, shall throw, drop, or deposit, or cause to
be thrown, dropped, or deposited, the rubbish, or material from the body of the
vehicle, in violation of the provisions of this division (B), the person must
daily clean up and remove the rubbish or material in a manner satisfactory to
the Director of Sanitation, failing which the Department of Sanitation may
clean up and remove the rubbish and material and the town may collect the cost
of the cleaning up and removal from the person.
   (C)   No plantings or obstruction may be made on the right-of-way between
the curb and sidewalk 50 feet from the corner of intersections, more than 30
inches high.
(1983 Code, § 14-16)  (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  POINT OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Containers in residential areas shall be kept in a place convenient
for town employees to collect refuse therefrom.
   (B)   No garbage shall be collected unless it is in containers approved in
this code.
   (C)   Business building collection areas shall be from the rear, side, or,
in certain cases, the front.  The best location in this instance shall be
determined by the Director of Sanitation.
   (D)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than four feet in length or
seven inches in diameter, or other heavy objects be moved by the town. 
However, in certain special cleanup periods designated by the Board of
Commissioners, this division (D) may be waived by the Director of Sanitation.
   (E)   Tree trunks, small rocks, tree stumps, tree trimmings or hedge
cuttings, heavy grass, hay, or other similar materials more than four feet in
length or seven inches in diameter shall be removed at the expense of the
property owner.
   (F)   Materials to be collected by special collection shall be placed on the
curbline at the street on the area between the sidewalk and the curb in neat,
compact piles.
(1983 Code, § 14-17)  (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  PRIVATE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, hauling, or
transporting in the town any waste without first obtaining a permit from the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   No landfill operation for the disposal of waste shall be operated
within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, or have hauled, carried,
or transported, any garbage or wet or perishable or malodorous matter of
organic origin on any town thoroughfare, except in metal containers, covered
vessels, or liquid-tight containers, with tight-fitting covers, all of which
shall be devoid of any drain tubes, drainage pipes, or other features which
will release drainings, water, seepage, or washings from the container onto
public roads, streets, or property over which the transport is being moved.
   (D)   In order for an individual, partnership, corporation, or any other
type of business to be eligible for a permit to remove waste from any property
located within the town and to charge a fee therefor, he or she must comply
with the following minimum requirements, all of which are designed for the
public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of White Lake.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from the Town Sanitation Director upon
payment of a fee determined by the Board of Commissioners, which permit shall
be renewed every January 1 thereafter at an annual cost that may be changed
from time to time by the Board.
      (2)   Before beginning waste collection service, a private collector must
file with the town a list of its customers, the fee charged, and the schedule
of pickups of waste.  This list must be refiled every 30 days in order that an
up-to-date current listing is available at all times.
      (3)   Waste pickup schedules must not be any less frequent than the
applicable schedules of the town.
      (4)   A vehicle designed for hauling and transporting waste may be used
if it meets specifications set forth in this chapter for hauling and
transporting waste.
      (5)   All permits issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to
revocation if:
         (a)   Pickup schedules are not rigorously observed;
         (b)   A minimum of 5% of the customers served by a private collector
file complaints with the town as to the method and efficiency of the private
service; or
         (c)   Any provision of this section is not complied with.
(1983 Code, § 14-18)  (Ord. passed 11-20-1973; Am. Ord. passed 3-7-1974) 
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08  FEES.
   (A)   Any business building, political subdivision or facility, or
eleemosynary charitable institution that utilizes the refuse collection
facilities and procedures of the town shall pay an amount as may be determined
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners, the fees to be commensurate
with the number of collections required and the amounts of the collections.
(1983 Code, § 14-19) 
   (B)   Lake water fees and solid waste fees shall be billed and collected in
the same manner as water and wastewater services. Payment shall be applied as
follows:
      (1)   Lake water management fee;
      (2)   Sanitation;
      (3)   Recycling;
      (4)   Wastewater; and
      (5)   Water.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1973; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-2004; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 6-
11-2020)  Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Delinquent water and sewer bills, see § 51.26
   Water and sewer rates, see §
51.18
§ 50.09  LITTERING.
   No person shall throw, drop, or deposit, or cause to be thrown, dropped, or
deposited, on any land in the town, vacant or occupied (including,
specifically, streets, alleys, drives, highways, and other public and semi-
public areas) or in all waters under the jurisdiction of the town, any waste
(including, but not limited to, refuse, garbage, ashes, rubbish, dead animals
or fish, paper, drinking cups, broken glass, bags, brush, grass, weeds, and
anything injurious to health).  If any person, while transporting or hauling,
or causing to be transported or hauled, the rubbish or material or earth
excavated or other material, shall throw, or cause to be thrown, dropped, or
deposited, the rubbish or material from a vehicle or from the body thereof in
violation of this section, the person must daily clean up and remove the
rubbish or material in a manner satisfactory to the Director of Sanitation and,
upon failing to do so, the Department of Sanitation may clean up and remove the
rubbish and material and the town may collect the cost of the removal from the
person.
(1983 Code, § 14-20)  (Ord. passed 3-6-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Placing trash, etc., within town limits, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 50.10  DUMPSITE.
   (A)   The town may maintain a dumpsite for the purpose of disposing of
trees, brush, hedge branches, grass clippings, and other refuse resulting from
lawn maintenance operations on land and property located within the town.  No
industrial wastes or garbage shall be deposited at this dumpsite.
   (B)   The dumpsite shall be secured insofar as possible to prevent
unauthorized use.
   (C)   Access to the dumpsite shall be restricted to employees of the town,
residents of the town, landowners, and tenants of landowners within the town
limits.  No commercial lawn maintenance or tree removal business shall have
access to the site, unless the refuse sought to be dumped results from work
performed on land or property with the town limits.
(1983 Code, § 14-21)  (Ord. passed 12-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
   (B)   Unauthorized dumping, under § 50.10, shall be punishable as a general
misdemeanor under G.S. § 14-4.
(1983 Code, § 14-21)  (Ord. passed 12-12-1989)
CHAPTER 51:  GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Separate meters
   
51.03   Common meters
   
51.04   Application required
   
51.05   Connection required
   
51.06   Unlawful connections
   
51.07   Unlawful use
Rates and Charges
   
51.10   Schedule of rates and fees
   
51.11   Deposit required
   
51.12   Water and sewer tap-on fees
   
51.13   Environmental impact fee
   
51.14   Sewer connection outside town
   
51.15   Commencement of billing
   
51.16   Availability fee and administrative fee
   
51.17   Adjustment of charges
   
51.18   Advance payments
   
51.19   Billing cycle and payments
   
51.20   Form of payment/penalty for worthless check
   
51.21   Disconnection and reconnection of utility service
   
51.22   Customer request to turn water on or off
   
51.23   Transfer fee
   
51.24   Irrigation water meters
   
51.25   Right to suspend service
Water and Sanitary Sewer Service Extension
   
51.40   Application for, and approval of, extensions required
   
51.41   General extension requirements
   
51.42   Financing extensions within corporate limits
   
51.43   Financing extensions outside corporate limits
   
51.44   Specifications; ownership
   
51.45   Additional subdivision improvement requirements
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Digging ditches below certain level, §
11
Statutory reference:
   Public enterprises, see G.S. §§ 160A-311et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter and
Chapter 52, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXTURE.  Any receptacle for the reception of house sewage.
   HOUSE DRAINS.  The horizontal pipes laid from the sewer to or near the
building, and there connected with the pipes constituting the interior drainage
system.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY.  Property on which a structure is located.
   MULTI-USER.  Any use where there is more than one structure on a single
meter or where there is one structure containing multiple residential
(dwelling) units such as hotels, motels and condominiums.
   SINGLE-USER.  Any use on a single meter not included in the multi-user
definition above.
   SOIL PIPE.  Any pipe conveying the discharge of a water closet, with or
without the addition of smaller fixtures.
   STRUCTURE.  By way of illustration and not by way of limitation, any
dwelling cottage, dwelling house, apartment house, hotel, motel, house trailer,
mobile home, commercial building, office building, rooming house, or any unit
in a group housing development, planned unit development, townhouse,
condominium development, motorized home, self-contained travel trailer, travel
trailer, or other structure.
   TRAP.  A specially curved pipe or receptacle so placed in a line of soil or
waste pipe that enough passing water will be held to completely fill the
channel and thus seal it to prevent the passage of air or gas through the trap.
   WASTE PIPE.  Any pipe conveying the discharge of any fixture, other than a
water closet, to the house drain or soil pipe.
(1983 Code, § 17-1)  (Ord. passed 9-22-1961; Am. Ord. passed 4-14-1992; Am.
Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.02  SEPARATE METERS.
   Except as hereinafter provided in this chapter and Chapter 52, each separate
structure within the town shall be required to have an individual water meter
and sewer service connection.
(1983 Code, § 17-2)  (Ord. passed 11-3-1967; Am. Motion passed 9-4-1984; Am.
Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed
11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  COMMON METERS.
   (A)   A common water connection, sewer connection and/or meter will be
permitted to serve more than one building of the following categories:
      (1)   Unit ownership (condominium developments); and
      (2)   Hotels and motels.
   (B)   Provided, when real property is or becomes separately owned within any
of the categories listed in division (A) above, a common meter shall be
permitted only when the separate owners of the real estate designate in writing
a single person or entity to be responsible for payment of all water and sewer
charges. This designation must be on file with the Town of White Lake.
(1983 Code, § 17-2.1)  (Motion passed 9-4-1984; Am. Ord. passed 7-23-1991; Am.
Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed
11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Separate meters, see §
51.02
§ 51.04  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring water or sewer utility service furnished by the
town shall make application to the town. Such application shall contain the
applicant’s name, owner’s name if different from the applicant, applicant and
owner contact information, physical location of the unit to be served, the uses
for which the utility is desired and any other information deemed necessary by
the town.
   (B)   This requirement shall apply to all new accounts established after the
date of adoption of this chapter.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.05  CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   When improved property is located within the town limits and upon or
within a distance of 200 feet from any water line or sewer collection line
deemed adequate and appropriate by the town to provide such service, the owner
or owners of the improved property are required to connect to town service
within six months of notice given. The owners shall be charged for the
connection and shall pay for the connection in full at the time of application.
   (B)   If any provision of this section conflicts with previous ordinances
included in this chapter, this section shall be paramount.
      (1)   Any residential dwelling or business abandoning use of a septic
tank within the Town of White Lake and requesting connection to the town’s
sewer system shall be required, within six months of connection, to remove all
matter from the tank, collapse the tank (or remove in its entirety), fill the
area with soil and compact.  A sewer tap fee and an environmental impact fee
must be paid before the connection is made.
      (2)   Any residential dwelling or business abandoning use of a well
within the Town of White Lake and requesting connection to the town’s water
system will be required to pay a water tap fee before the connection is made.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
Statutory Reference:
   Power to require connections, G. S. § 160A-317.
§ 51.06  UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   Any person who makes any connection in any manner to the water or sewer
system without prior knowledge and consent of the town shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  UNLAWFUL USE.
   No person, other than employees of the town,  shall be authorized to
connect, turn on, turn off or disconnect water or sewer service provided by the
town or remove, replace or repair any equipment connected to these utility
services.  It shall be unlawful for any person to resell to others water or
wastewater services except by express authorization by the town.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory Reference:
   Injury to water supply misdemeanor, G.S. § 143-152.
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.10  SCHEDULE OF RATES AND FEES.
   From time to time, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt and place into
effect a schedule of rates and fees covering the water and wastewater utilities
of the town. Such schedule may be included as part of the annual budget
ordinance.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.11  DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   A deposit shall be required for all accounts established with the Town of
White Lake for water or sewer service. Deposits are required to ensure the
payment of water and sewer bills due and to secure the Town against loss.
   (A)   A separate deposit shall be required for each meter installed.
   (B)   The deposit amount for residential customers will be established as
part of the schedule of rates and fees.
   (C)   The deposit amount for non-residential customers will be established
as part of the schedule of rates and fees.
   (D)   The amount shall remain on deposit with the Town of White Lake as a
guarantee for payment of water and sewer usage. When separating from the town, 
the town shall apply the deposit against the amount due on the customer’s final
bill.
   (E)   The deposit shall be made in the name of the account holder.
   (F)   The monthly statement for water and sewer service shall be mailed to
the account holder and that person shall be responsible for payment of all
water and/or sewer statements in accordance with G.S. § 160A-314(c).
   (G)   The town reserves the right to hold any deposit until all bills and
penalties have been paid. When closing an account, the town reserves the right
to hold any deposit until the account has been audited.
   (H)   All security deposits are non-interest bearing.
(1983 Code, § 17-19) (Res. passed 6-27-1961; Am. Ord. passed 11-3-1967; Am.
Motion passed 9-2-1982; Am. Motion passed 10-7-1982; Am. Motion passed 2-3-
1983; Am. Res. passed 11-29-1983; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion
passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
Editor’s note:
   Provisions of a resolution of 11-29-1983, not expressly amendatory of the
code, have been treated as amending §
51.11 to read as herein set out. In the event of conflict with §
51.04, it is presumed that the more recent provisions shall prevail.
Cross-reference:
   Delinquent solid waste collection fees, see §
50.08
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of utility charges, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 51.12  WATER AND SEWER TAP-ON FEES.
   Water and sewer tap-on fees, unless exempted by this chapter or
Chapter 52, shall be paid prior to using the town’s services. These fees, as
established from time to time by the Board of Commissioners, shall be based on
the number of structures served by the connection.
(1983 Code, § 17-3) (Res. passed 11-24-1961; Am. Ord. passed 1-27-1962; Am.
Ord. passed 11-3-1967; Am. Motion passed 8-4-1970; Am. Ord. passed 10-6-1970;
Am. Res. passed 2-1-1972; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-1973; Am. Res. passed 7-7-1975;
Am. Ord. passed 3-5-1985; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-
2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Connection charges, see G.S. § 160A-317
§ 51.13  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   From and after September 4, 1984, the owner of every tract of land,
parcel, or lot, which is developed to be connected to the town’s water or sewer
system, shall be charged an environmental impact fee (E.I.F.) per structure
site developed.
      (1)   The fee, based on the town’s Residential Equivalency Unit (REU)
schedule, shall be set, from time to time, by the Town Board of Commissioners.
It is the intent of this section that the environmental impact fee shall be due
at the time a water meter is set in place for the purpose of providing water
service to the tract of land, parcel, or lot. If a water meter is already set
in place, the environmental impact fee shall be due no later than the date a
structure is first placed upon any structure site located on the tract, parcel,
or lot.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         STRUCTURE.  By way of illustration and not by way of limitation, any
dwelling cottage, dwelling house, apartment house, hotel, motel, house trailer,
mobile home, commercial building, office building, rooming house, or any unit
in a group housing development, planned unit development, townhouse,
condominium development, motorized home, self-contained travel trailer, travel
trailer, or other structure.
      (3)   Determination of fee.  The environmental impact fee is based upon
the number of residential equivalent units in the structure.
         (a)   A residential equivalent unit is based upon uniform standards
set by the town to approximate the gallons per day water/sewer use by a single-
family residence and to use the figure as a common denominator to determine
fees for other type structures.
         (b)   Residential equivalent unit  (REU) schedule.
Type of Structure REU
Type of Structure    REU
Condominium          1 REU
Mobile home          1 REU
House                1 REU
Apartment            1 REU
Campground space     0.35 REU/space
Travel trailer park  0.35 REU/space
Restaurant           0.11 REU/seat
Motel or hotel       0.35 REU/bedrm or 0.5 REU per efficiency bedroom
Office building      1 REU
Retail establishment 1 REU
NOTES TO TABLE:
REU - residential equivalent unit
GPD - gallons per day
350 GPD = 1 REU
 
   (4)   Appeal. Appeal may be made to the Town Board of Commissioners when the
applicant deems the charge excessive. The Board of Commissioners shall have the
authority to establish the impact fee upon the appeals.
(1983 Code, § 17-3.1) (Motion passed 9-4-1984; Am. Motion passed 5-7-1985; Am.
Ord. passed 10-13-1992; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-
2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.14  SEWER CONNECTION OUTSIDE TOWN.
   The policy of the town regarding furnishing water and sewer outside the
corporate limits of the town is as follows:
   (A)   The town will extend its water and sewer lines in appropriate size to
its corporate limits.
   (B)   The person desiring extension of the town’s water and sewer lines
outside of the town shall be known as the “extender”. The extender shall cause
to be prepared plans and specifications for the extension of the town’s water
and sewer mains to and within the extender’s property and same shall be
approved by the town, its engineer and the appropriate state regulatory
agencies. The work shall be performed to the approval of a North Carolina
licensed professional engineer paid by the extender and overseeing the
extender’s project, who shall present to the Town of White Lake and the
appropriate state regulatory agencies a certificate of completion along with
“as-built” plans and specifications of the work.
   (C)   The extender shall furnish all materials and fittings and shall
perform all labor to construct water and sanitary sewer mains, service laterals
and meter setters on portions of his or her property in accordance with the
approved locations, plans and specifications. All meters shall be furnished 
and installed by the town.
   (D)   Water and sewer tapping fees and service lateral charges shall be
collected by the town in accordance with its standard charges for service
connections between water and sanitary sewer mains and structures along the
utility mains for each structure served.
   (E)   Water and sewer services will be supplied to structures in accordance
with the town’s rules, regulations, and rate schedules applicable to its out-
of-town service and in effect at the time of application for service, subject
to charges as may be made by the Town Board. The plumbing code, and other
applicable codes in effect in the town from time to time, shall apply to all
plumbing installed in structures on the extender’s property and between meters
and the structures.
   (F)   Commencement of water and sewer service by the town through any water
or sewer mains and any extensions made thereto, shall result in all mains and
meters becoming the sole property of the town who will repair, maintain, and
service all facilities.
   (G)   The extender shall agree for himself or herself and all his or her
heirs, personal representatives, and assigns, that the town shall have the
right, in its discretion, to extend its corporate limits to include any portion
or all of the land in which the town is furnishing water and sanitary sewer to
the extent and in a manner provided by law.
   (H)   It shall be understood with the extender and his or her heirs,
personal representatives, and assigns, or, in the event the extender is a
corporation, with its successors and assigns, that in no event shall the town
be subject to any liability whatsoever as a result of the water and sewer
services rendered or the failure for any reason to render the services.
   (I)   The town reserves the right to refuse to extend its water and sewer
lines beyond its corporate limits.
(1983 Code, § 17-6) (Ord. passed 9-22-1961; Am. Res. passed 1-4-1972; Am. Ord.
passed 6-6-1984; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am.
Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15  COMMENCEMENT OF BILLING.
   (A)   When a water meter is installed by the town, the customer will, from
the date of the installation of the meter, be billed for water and sewer in
accordance with the town’s current rates.
   (B)   All customers shall be billed monthly by the town for water and sewer
services according to the Schedule of Rates and Fees fixed from time to time by
the Board of Commissioners.
(1983 Code, §§ 17-12, 17-13) (Res. passed 6-18-1970; Am. Motion passed 10-7-
1982; Am. Motion passed 8-4-1983; Am. Ord. passed 4-14-1992; Am. Motion passed
8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Payment includes solid waste collection fees, see §
50.08
Statutory reference:
   Authority to fix and enforce rates, see G.S. § 160A-314(B). If the owner of
the property requires or requests more than one water meter, then the minimum
charge shall be billed for each meter.
§ 51.16  AVAILABILITY AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   Every lot with a structure, permanent, mobile or otherwise, that is not
connected to the town’s water and sewer utilities shall be charged a monthly
availability fee for water and sewer service provided that such availability
fee shall not exceed the minimum charges for water and sewer services to
customers connected to the town’s systems. Every lot that is connected to the
town’s water and sewer utilities shall be subject to an administrative charge
which applies at the zero consumption level provided that such administrative
fee shall not exceed the minimum charges for water and sewer services. Such
charges shall be established by the Board of Commissioners in the Schedule of
Rates and Fees.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
Cross-Reference:
   Connection Required, see §
51.05
   Separate Meters, see §
51.02
Statutory Reference:
   G.S. § 160A-317.
§ 51.17  ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES.
   Charges billed to customers may be adjusted as follows:
   (A)   A water and sewer customer requesting an adjustment shall be required
to furnish a statement by a licensed plumber stating the nature of the water/
sewer problem and a copy of a paid bill, or obtain the approval of the town’s
Public Works Director prior to presenting his or her request to the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The Board shall, in its discretion, adjust water and sewer bills and,
in adjusting same, the following formula shall be used: the entire water bill
shall be paid, plus the amount of the sewer charges for the corresponding
period for the previous year.
(1983 Code, § 17-15) (Motion passed 2-28-1969; Am. Motion passed 9-10-1985; Am.
Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
Editor’s note:
   A nonamendatory motion of 8-20-1985 has been included as division (A) above.
§ 51.18  ADVANCE PAYMENTS.
   A water customer may pay his or her water and sewer bill in advance by
making a deposit with the town, to be applied against his or her bills until
the deposit is exhausted or by the town drafting on the customer’s account.
(1983 Code, § 17-16) (Motion passed 2-7-1974; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am.
Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.19  BILLING CYCLE AND PAYMENTS.
   The Town of White Lake has established a cycle for reading of meters,
preparation and mailing of the bills and times at which the billing is due and
payable to the Town, and at which late charges and penalties shall be assessed.
(A)   All bills for water and sewer utility service furnished by the town shall
be due and payable when issued. This will generally be the first day of the
month except when that date falls on a weekend or holiday. Bills become
delinquent if not received in Town Hall by 5:00 p.m. on the fifteenth (15th)
day of the  month and a late fee shall be applied on the fifteenth (15th)  day
at close of business. If the fifteenth  day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a
legal holiday observed by the town, then the billing shall be due and payable
on the next business day. Notice of the due date and the penalty for non-
payment by the due date shall be provided to the account holder either by mail
notice or shall be printed on the face of the bill.
(B)   If any bill remains unpaid on the last day of the month, service shall be
discontinued. No second notices shall be sent.
(C)   Failure to receive bills or notices does not prevent such bills from
becoming delinquent, nor relieve the account holder from payment.
(D)   Any account holder with a delinquent account may not open a new account
at another location until the delinquent account has been satisfied. If the
amount in arrears is significant,  a payment plan may be established. Failure
to honor the terms of the payment plan and/or failure to keep the new account
current will result in termination of service.
(1983 Code, § 17-17) (Res. passed 6-27-1961; Am. Res. passed 11-29-1983; Am.
Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed
11-12-2013)
Editor’s note:
   Provisions of a resolution of 11-29-1983, not
     expressly amendatory of the code, have been
     treated as amending § 51.19 to read as herein
     set out.
16   White Lake - Administration
§ 51.20 FORM OF PAYMENT/PENALTY FOR WORTHLESS CHECKS.
   The Town of White Lake will accept payment for utility services in the form
of cash, check, through ACH, EDS and the online payment system in accordance
with the following provisions.
   (A)   In the case where a water and/or sewer customer gives the town two
checks which cannot be honored upon presentation (Non-Sufficient Funds - NSF),
the Town will not accept any further personal checks from the customer and will
require the customer to pay with cash, certified check, cashier’s check or
money order.
   (B)   If the bill is delinquent for which the NSF check has been submitted,
service will be discontinued immediately without notice.
   (C)   Personal checks will not be accepted from a customer whose services
have been discontinued for non-payment.
(1983 Code, § 17-18) (Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013;
Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.21  DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   It is the policy of the Town of White Lake, before disconnecting a utility
service, to give the customer a fair opportunity to avoid disconnection either
by paying charges due or showing that the charges are in error. Under this
policy, the customer has the right to request adjustments to his or her billing
only one time per calendar year and only with acceptable proof as described in
§
51.17.
   (A)   Service disconnections will be made between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and
3:00 p.m. on business days from Monday through Thursday only. Customers will be
subject to a service fee for disconnection of the water service as soon as a
town employee is dispatched to make the disconnection.
   (B)   Customers who have paid in full the past amounts due including any
late charges and penalties are eligible to have the water service reconnected. 
Customers will be subject to a reconnection fee which shall be established in
the Schedule or Rates and Fees. The town shall reestablish water service as
soon as possible after receipt of the payment.
   (C)   In the event of an emergency (declared or undeclared), where utility
service is critical to the protection of the customer or others, the Mayor and/
or Public Works Department Commissioner is delegated the authority to postpone,
delay or suspend service disconnection and/or waive any fees or fines, for the
affected account, class of accounts, or all accounts. This authorization may be
extended to those accounts disconnected within the thirty (30) day period
immediately prior to the onset of the emergency. Such determination of an
emergency shall be approved by the Town Board of Commissioners at the next
meeting.
(1983 Code, § 17-23) (Ord. passed 6-21-1995; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am.
Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-04,
passed 3-31-2020)
Statutory Reference:
   G.S. § 160A-314(b). 
§ 51.22  CUSTOMER REQUEST TO TURN WATER ON OR OFF.
   There will be a service charge for turning the water on or off at the
request of the customer. Such charge shall be included in the Schedule of Rates
and Fees.
(1983 Code, § 17-20) (Motion passed 2-3-1983; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am.
Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 51.23  TRANSFER FEE.
   If the utility billing name is transferred, a transfer fee shall be paid by
the new occupant or lessee. Such charge shall be included in the Schedule of
Rates and Fees.
(1983 Code, § 17-21) (Ord. passed 3-3-1970; Am. Motion passed 10-7-1982; Am.
Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am. Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed
11-12-2013)
§ 51.24  IRRIGATION WATER METERS.
   The following policies shall apply to irrigation meters.
   (A)   Any water and sewer customer of the town may request and have an
irrigation water meter installed.
   (B)   The connection fee shall be the same charge applicable to water
customers of the Town.
   (C)   A  back-flow prevention device shall be installed and the customer
shall be charged the cost of purchasing and installing the device.
   (D)   Irrigation water meter customers shall be billed monthly in accordance
with the Schedule of Rates and Fees.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to draw water from faucets located inside
and outside any structure located on property utilizing an irrigation water
meter to facilitate usage checks and to ensure that no water is allowed to
drain into the White Lake sewer system
   (F)   No customer utilizing an irrigation water meter shall intentionally
allow water pumped through the meter to enter the town’s sewer system.
(1983 Code, § 17-22) (Ord. passed 7-8-1986; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007; Am.
Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25  RIGHT TO SUSPEND SERVICE.
   The Town of White Lake reserves the right to discontinue its service without
notice for the following additional reasons:
   (A)   To prevent fraud or abuse.
   (B)   Owner/customer’s willful disregard of the town’s rules and
regulations.
   (C)   Making of connection to the system or emergency repairs to municipal
property.
   (D)   Circumstances beyond the town’s control.
   (E)   Legal process.
   (F)   Direction of public authorities having jurisdiction over such matters.
   (G)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
(Motion passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-12-2013)
WATER AND SANITARY SEWER
SERVICE EXTENSION
§ 51.40  APPLICATION FOR, AND APPROVAL OF, EXTENSIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, any property
owner, or owners, desiring water or sanitary sewer service, shall apply, in
writing, to the Board requesting the extension of water or sanitary sewer
service, or both.  No request for extension of services shall be considered
unless submitted in writing in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The town may require the applicant to submit, as part of the written
application, information, plans, or other data as may be required to adequately
determine compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension, or both, to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development
project or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time
application is made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in sufficient
detail in order to determine the size and type facilities which will be
necessary to serve the entire development or subdivision, when completed.
   (D)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the Town of
White Lake shall be made and no application shall be approved except in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the town shall
be made unless the owner or owners shall have first made application to the
appropriate agencies of the state to obtain permits therefor.  If the town is
assessed any penalty by virtue of the actions of any landowner or contractor
for failing to obtain the permit or authority, then the landowner or contractor
shall be responsible to the town for any penalty in addition to any other civil
penalty set forth in this chapter, including attorney fees.
(1983 Code, § 17-32)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984; Am. Ord. passed 4-14-1987; Am.
Motion passed 3-13-2007)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41  GENERAL EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All extensions of either water or sanitary sewer service shall be governed
by the following.
   (A)   The minimum distance for any extension of a water main or sanitary
sewer main shall be determined by the Board.  In general, the minimum distance
for extensions shall be from valve to valve for water mains, manhole to manhole
for sewer mains, or one platted block if determined to be in the town’s best
interest.
   (B)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
the other required system facilities shall be determined by the Board in
accordance with the recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and
design, and in accordance with applicable system plans adopted by the Board.
(1983 Code, § 17-33)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984; Am. Motion passed 3-13-2007)
§ 51.42  FINANCING EXTENSIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Extensions to property within previously approved subdivisions or upon
previously dedicated and accepted streets.
      (1)   When application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service, or both, to serve property within the corporate limits,
which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or where
streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the town and where the
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the town,
the Town Engineer or other person designated by the Board shall estimate the
cost of the project and present the application for the extension, the
estimated cost, and other required information to the Board for approval.  If
the application is approved by the Board, and subject to the availability of
funds, the town will install, or have installed by contract under its
supervision, the extensions which have been approved, and the extension shall
be financed in accordance with division (A)(2).
      (2)   When an approved water or sanitary sewer extension project has been
completed and the total cost thereof has been determined, 75% of the total cost
of the water or sanitary sewer extension, or both, shall be assessed against
the property owners whose property abuts upon the extension, at an equal rate
per front foot in accordance with and under the authority granted to the town
by G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 160A-238.  The remaining 25% of the total cost of
the extension shall be borne by the town from funds appropriated for this
purpose.
   (B)   Extensions to proposed developments or subdivisions.
      (1)   (a)   When an application is received requesting the extension of
water or sanitary sewer service, or both, to proposed developments or
subdivisions within the corporate limits which have not been approved by the
Board, the owner or developer shall present the application for the extension,
the estimated cost, and other required information to the Board for their
approval.
         (b)   If the application is approved, the owner or developer will
install, or have installed by contract under the supervision of the town, the
extensions, which shall be financed in accordance with this division (B).
      (2)   All water and sewer mains extended to new subdivisions shall be
installed by the owner or developer at its cost, according to specifications
and standards of the town, and methods required by the town, and subject to the
approval of the town and its engineer.  Up to 75% of the costs incurred by the
developer, for any line(s) extended from the town’s system to the new
development, may be reimbursed by the town through assessments against the
property owners whose property abuts upon the extension, at an equal rate per
front foot in accordance with and under the authority granted to the town by
G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 160A-238, if the town determines the extension(s) are
beneficial to the town’s overall water or sewer system.
      (3)   All water and sewer facilities required for any new subdivision or
development to operate shall be installed and paid for by the developer, except
as noted herein.  These facilities shall include, but not be limited to, water
and sewer lines, manholes, valves, hydrants, meter setters, and sewer pumping
stations all suitable to meet the standards of the town and the approving state
agencies.  No service shall commence without proper certification forms from
the owner’s engineer and a complete “as-built” set of plans and
specifications.  All water meters shall be paid for and installed by the town.
      (4)   Upon completion of the construction and requirements as set forth
above, and upon the commencement of service by the town, the mains, pumping
facilities and appurtenances shall become the sole property of the town, and
will be repaired, maintained, and serviced by the town.
   (C)   Facilities excluded in determining developer’s share of cost.
      (1)   When the town determines that it is to the town’s benefit to
install larger facilities than necessary to serve the property requesting an
extension, the additional costs may be born by the town.  If the additional
costs are eligible for funding and the money is available, the cost difference
between the larger facilities and the minimum facilities required shall be paid
by the town.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, pumping stations, and other system facilities
installed for general public use along any extended part of the town’s system,
which are expressly identified in the application or agreement approved by the
Board, shall be paid for by the town and excluded from the total cost to be
shared by the property owner(s).
   (D)   Exceptions authorized.  Nothing in this section shall prevent the
Board from extending water or sanitary sewer mains, or both, within the
corporate limits on their own motion, without receipt of an application from
property owners, and to assess the cost of the extension in accordance with
division (A) above when, in the opinion of the Board, the general public
interest demands the extension or service.
   (E)   Extensions to trailer parks.  Applications for extensions to trailer
parks within the town limits shall be governed by the preceding divisions (A)
through (D) above and §
51.42.  Tap fees and environmental impact fees as provided for herein shall be
assessed at the time the water/sewer connection is made, and shall be based
upon the proposed number of structures served and residential equivalent units
respectively.
(1983 Code, § 17-34)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984; Am. Ord. passed 5-7-1985; Am.
Motion passed 3-13-2007)
§ 51.43  FINANCING EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits shall be made in the same manner and under the same requirements as
provided for in §§
51.40 and
51.41.
   (B)   If an application is approved by the Board, the owner or owners shall
be required to pay 100% of the total cost of all extensions.  Provided, the
town may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Board in the cost of
larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains required to serve the
project.  The developer may be reimbursed as provided in §
51.42(B)(2).  No reimbursements shall be made upon annexation, except as
provided in §
51.42(B)(2), and all water and sewer lines connected to the town system and
located outside the corporate limits shall become the property of the town at
the time the facilities are connected.
   (C)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the owner or owners shall
deposit with the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total estimated
cost of the extension.  Upon receipt of the funds, a written contract shall be
entered into by and between the town and the property owner or owners, in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.  The contract shall
provide that, in the event the funds deposited exceed the amount of the total
extension cost when completed, that portion in excess of the total cost will be
refunded to the owner or owners without interest.  The contract shall also
provide that, if the amount deposited is less than the total cost, when
completed, the owner or owners shall pay the additional amount to the town.
   (D)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner or owners may execute a surety
bond guaranteeing payment for the extension or the owner or owners may have the
extension work performed under private contract with the approval of the Board;
provided, the work is to be performed in accordance with all construction
requirements of the town and subject to inspection and approval of the town. 
If the owner or owners elect to have the extension work performed by private
contract, then the provisions of §
51.42(B) shall govern the extension.  The policies set forth in §
51.17 of the Town Code shall also govern the extension.
(1983 Code, § 17-35)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984)
§ 51.44  SPECIFICATIONS; OWNERSHIP.
   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications, and other requirements of the town.  All
facilities installed under the provisions of this subchapter, whether within or
outside the corporate limits, shall become the sole property of the town and
under its jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever, at the
time the facilities are connected to the town system.  When required, the
property owner or owners shall grant to the town the utility easements as the
town may require.  In addition, a deed to the town for water and/or sewer
facilities installed, which are located outside the corporate limits, the cost
of which is borne by individual property owners, shall be executed prior to the
time any extensions provided for in this subchapter are connected to the town
systems.
(1983 Code, § 17-36)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984)
§ 51.45  ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board may, in its discretion, as a condition under which water or sewer
service, or both, will be extended, require the owner or owners of a proposed
subdivision to enter into an agreement to improve the proposed streets therein
at their own expense and in accordance with the ordinances then in force
governing the acceptance of public streets for the Town of White Lake.  If
required, this section shall apply to subdivisions which are located either
within or outside the corporate limits of the Town of White Lake.
(1983 Code, § 17-37)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating § 51.29 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined $500 and/or imprisoned for a term not to exceed 30 days.  Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall be considered a separate offense.
(1983 Code, § 17-22)  (Ord. passed 7-8-1986)
   (C)   (1)   The violation of any provision of §§
51.40et seq. shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of
$50, to be recovered by the town.  Violators shall be issued a written
citation, which must be paid within 72 hours.
      (2)   Each day’s continuing violation of §§
51.40et seq. shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, §§
51.40et seq. may also be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1983 Code, § 17-38)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984)
CHAPTER 52:  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE AND POLLUTION ABATEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose; objectives
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
Regulations Governing Sewer Use
   
52.015   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.016   Use of public sewers required
   
52.017   Private sewage disposal
   
52.018   Prohibitions on discharges
   
52.019   Prohibition of storm drainage and groundwater
   
52.020   Prohibition of unpolluted water
   
52.021   Limitations on radioactive wastes
   
52.022   Limitations on use of garbage grinders
   
52.023   Limitations on point of discharge
   
52.024   Holding tank wastes
   
52.025   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.026   Disposal of unacceptable waste
   
52.027   Special provisions concerning discharges to public sanitary sewers
   
52.028   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.029   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.030   State requirements
   
52.031   Town’s right of revision
   
52.032   Excessive discharge
   
52.033   Accidental discharges
Wastewater Volume Determination
   
52.045   Metered water supply
Discharge Report; Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
52.060   Wastewater discharges
   
52.061   Discharge reports
   
52.062   Wastewater discharge permits
   
52.063   Permit modifications
   
52.064   Reporting requirements for permittee
   
52.065   Monitoring facilities
   
52.066   Inspection and sampling
   
52.067   Pretreatment
   
52.068   Protection from accidental discharge
   
52.069   Control manhole
   
52.070   Flow control measuring equipment
   
52.071   Confidential information
Wastewater Charges and Fees
   
52.085   Schedule of charges and fees
   
52.086   Types of charges and fees
   
52.087   Basis for determination of surcharges
   
52.088   Method of determining surcharges
   
52.089   Method of determining charge rates
   
52.090   Sampling procedures and analysis
   
52.091   Sampling small industries
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.105   Duties of user upon unlawful discharges
   
52.106   Injunction and abatement
   
52.107   Termination of service; revocation of permits; issuance of cease and
desist orders
   
52.108   Notification of violation
   
52.109   Show cause hearing
   
52.110   Testimony to be taken under oath and recorded at hearings
   
52.111   Orders to discontinue sewer service
Fats, Oils and Grease Control
   
52.120   Scope and purpose
   
52.121   Definitions
   
52.122   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping and grease removal
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General water and sewer definitions, see §
51.01
   Separate meters, see §
51.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose.  This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. pt. 403).
   (B)   Objectives.  The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   Regulation of direct and indirect contributors to wastewater system. 
This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect contributors to
the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits to certain
nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements for the other
users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user
reporting, assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be preempted, and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   Compliance.  Any contributors from the adjacent unincorporated areas
that enter into a contract or agreement with the town shall comply with all
requirements in this chapter.
(1983 Code, § 17-60)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.002  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The Director of Water Resources of the town or his
or her appointed agents, or, in their absence, the Director of the North
Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, Division of
Environmental Management.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.  An authorized
representative of an industrial user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor, if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above, if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      BENEFICIAL USES.  Uses of the waters of the state that may be protected
against quality degradation, including domestic, municipal, agricultural, and
industrial supply; power generation; recreation; aesthetic enjoyment;
navigation; and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife, and other
aquatic resources or reserves; and other uses, both tangible and intangible, as
specified by federal or state law.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or B.O.D.  The empirical test run in accordance
with the latest edition of Standard Methods for Analysis of Water and
Wastewater, published by American Public Health Association and Water Pollution
Control Federation, or Methods for the Analysis of Water and Wastes, published
by E.P.A., to determine the relative oxygen requirements of wastewater’s
effluents and polluted waters.  B.O.D. is a measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize the organic matter in a sample, through the action of microorganisms in
that sample.
      BUILDING SEWER.  A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to a town sewer.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.  The federal categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or C.O.D.  The quantity of oxygen used in the
chemical oxidation or decomposition of organic substances in a sample.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Pollutants such as B.O.D., T.S.S., pH, oil and
grease, ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N), and fecal coliform bacteria, plus any
additional pollutants identified in the town’s national pollutant discharge
elimination system (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, or any pollutants the town’s treatment
work was designed to treat.  The pollutants shall be amendable to the town’s
biological waste treatment process; shall not cause the town to use additional
chemicals, extra personnel, or cause undue wear or operating expenses; shall
not cause the town’s wastewater treatment plant to exceed effluent limitations
as set forth in the N.P.D.E.S. permit.
      COOLING WATER.  The water discharged from any use, such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added
is heat.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the state.
      DIRECTOR OF WATER RESOURCES.  The director of water resources of the town
or his or her authorized representative.
      DOMESTIC WASTES.  The liquid wastes from bathrooms, toilet rooms, home
kitchens, and home laundries.
      E.P.A.  The federal agency named the Environmental Protection Agency.
      EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE.
         (a)   A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum permissible dose.
         (b)   MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE.  A dose of radiation to any part of
the body, internal and external or both, that, in the light of current
knowledge, is not expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a person at
any time during his or her lifetime.
         (c)   Application of this definition will conform to all federal and
state regulations concerning the use of radioactive materials.
      FEDERAL ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.
      GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
      GRAB SAMPLE.  A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      GREASE AND OILS.  A group of substances with similar physical
characteristics, including hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, waxes, oils, and
any other material that is extracted with a stated solvent from an acidified
sample and that is not volatilized during the test.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant which is not a compatible
pollutant, as defined in this section.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under §§ 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the P.O.T.W., including holding tank waste discharged into
the system.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.  A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402
of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE SURCHARGE.  A charge placed on all users who discharge
wastewaters having characteristics in excess of the limits set by this chapter
on compatible pollutants.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  Liquid or water-carried wastes from institutional,
commercial, and industrial processes and operations, as distinguished from
domestic wastes.
      INTERFERENCE.  The inhibition or disruption of the P.O.T.W. treatment
processes or operations which contributed to a violation of any requirement of
the town’s N.P.D.E.S. permit.  The term includes prevention of sewage sludge
use or disposal by the P.O.T.W. in accordance with § 405 of the Act, 33 U.S.C.
§ 1345, or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (S.W.D.A.), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; the Clean
Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act,
being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or more stringent state criteria (including
those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title
IV of S.W.D.A.), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq. applicable to the method of
disposal or use employed by the P.O.T.W.
      MASS EMISSION RATE.  The weight of material discharged to the town sewer
system during a given time interval.  Unless otherwise specified, the mass
emission rate pounds per day of a particular constituent or combination of
constituents.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns.  The masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
      POLLUTION.  An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects the waters for beneficial use or
affects the facilities which serve the beneficial uses.  Pollution may include
contamination.
      P.O.T.W. TREATMENT PLANT.  That portion of the P.O.T.W. designed to
provide treatment to wastewater.
      PREMISES.  A parcel of real estate or portion thereof, including any
improvements thereon which is determined by the town to be a single user for
purposes of receiving, using, and paying for service.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants,
the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing the pollutants into a P.O.T.W.  The
reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological
processes, or process changes other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R.
pt.403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.  Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (P.O.T.W.).  Treatment works as defined by
§ 212 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1292, which is owned in this instance by the
town.  This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the
P.O.T.W. treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment.  For the purposes
of this chapter, P.O.T.W. shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters
to the P.O.T.W. from persons outside the town who are, by contract or agreement
with the town, users of the town’s P.O.T.W.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any industrial user of the town’s
wastewater disposal system who:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the town’s wastewater
treatment system;
         (c)   Has, in his or her wastes, toxic pollutants as defined pursuant
to 33 U.S.C. §§  1317(a) et seq. of (state) statutes and rules; or
         (d)   Is found by the town, state control agency, or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (E.P.A.) to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air
emissions generated by the system.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (S.I.C.).  A classification pursuant
to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office
of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
      STATE.  State of North Carolina.
      STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER.  A sewer which carries storm or surface
waters, but not sewage or industrial wastes.
      STORMWATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT.  The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (T.S.S.).  The measure of the solids that either
float on the surface or are held in suspension in wastes and which are
removable from the liquid by laboratory filtering.
      TOWN.  The Town of White Lake, North Carolina, or any authorized official
(s) acting on behalf of the town.
      TOWN MANAGER.  The Town Manager, or, in the event of no Town Manager, the
Town Clerk, of the town.
      TOWN SEWER.  A sewer owned and operated by the town, tributary to a
treatment facility operated by the town.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1317(a) et seq. or other Acts.
      TREATMENT WORKS OR PLANT.  Any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal wastewater or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature, including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, plumbing, power and other equipment and
appurtenances, extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations,
extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby
treatment units, and clearwell storage facilities, and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the
treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing,
storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal wastes, including
stormwater run-off, or industrial and sanitary sewer systems.
      USER.  Any person who contributed, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s P.O.T.W.
      USER CHARGE SYSTEMS.  The charge that users are required to pay for the
right to discharge their type waters into the sewage system.
      WASTE.  Sewage and all other waste substances, liquid, solid, gaseous, or
radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or animal origin, or
from any reducing, manufacturing, or processing operation of whatever nature,
including waste placed within containers for whatever nature prior to, and for
purposes of, disposal.
      WASTEWATER.  Wastes and water, whether treated or untreated, discharged
into a town sewer.
      WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS and CHARACTERISTICS.  The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume and
flow rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure the
contents, quality, and strength of wastewater.
      WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   Other terms used in this chapter, but not defined hereinabove, shall
have the meanings set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association (A.P.H.A.), the American Waterworks Association (A.W.W.A.), and the
Water Pollution Control Federation (W.P.C.F.).  Unless otherwise expressly
stated in this chapter, waste constituents and characteristics shall be
measured by methods set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, and/or Methods for Chemical Analysis of
Waters and Wastes, published by the Environmental Protection Agency (E.P.A.).
(1983 Code, § 17-61)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.003  ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D.  Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R.  Code of Federal Regulations.
   C.O.D.  Chemical oxygen demand.
   E.P.A.  Environmental Protection Agency.
   l.  Liter.
   mg.  Milligrams.
   mg/l.  Milligrams per liter.
   N.P.D.E.S.  National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   P.O.T.W.  Publicly owned treatment works.
   S.I.C.  Standard industrial classification.
   S.W.D.A.  Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   U.S.C.  United States Code.
   T.S.S.  Total suspended solids.
(1983 Code, § 17-62)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
REGULATIONS GOVERNING SEWER USE
§ 52.015  GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the P.O.T.W.  These general prohibitions apply to all users
of a P.O.T.W., whether or not the user is subject to federal categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.  A user may not contribute the following substances
to any P.O.T.W.:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
P.O.T.W. or to the operation of the P.O.T.W.  At no time shall two successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or at any point in the system), be more than 5% nor any single reading
over 10% of the lower explosive limit (L.E.L.) of the meter.  Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides, and any
other substances which the town, the state, or E.P.A. has notified the user is
a fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities, such as, but not limited to:  grease, garbage with particles
greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood,
plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining, or processing of
fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5, unless the P.O.T.W. is
specifically designed to accommodate the wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and/or personnel of the P.O.T.W.;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the P.O.T.W., or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard.  A
toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to the Clean Water Act, being §§ 33 U.S.C. 1317(q) et seq.;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the P.O.T.W.’s effluent, or any other
product of the P.O.T.W. such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable
for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process.  In no
case shall a substance discharged to the P.O.T.W. cause the P.O.T.W. to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations
developed under § 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations
affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.
or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the P.O.T.W. to violate its
N.P.D.E.S. and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality
standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the P.O.T.W. treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no
case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the P.O.T.W. which
exceeds 40°C (104°F), unless the P.O.T.W. treatment plant is designed to
accommodate the temperature;
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (B.O.D. and
the like), released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user
knows or has reason to know will cause interference to the P.O.T.W.  In no case
shall a sludge load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of
pollutants that exceed, for any time period longer than 15 minutes, more than
five times the average 24-hour concentration, quantities, or flow during normal
operation;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations; and
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
   (B)   When the Superintendent determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the P.O.T.W. any of the above enumerated substances in amounts as to interfere
with the operation of the P.O.T.W., the Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the
P.O.T.W.; and
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for the user to correct the
interference with the P.O.T.W.
(1983 Code, § 17-70)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Depositing objectionable waste on property within town.  It shall be
unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the town, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Discharging untreated wastewater into natural outlets.  It shall be
unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Privies, privy vaults, septic tanks, cesspools, and the like.  Except
as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Installation of suitable toilet facilities; connection to public
sewer.  The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is
hereby required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that the public sewer is within 200 feet of
the property line.
   (E)   Construction of, connections to, public sewer.  All construction of,
or connections to, town sewer shall be in full compliance with the North
Carolina Building Code and the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
(1983 Code, § 17-71)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Connection of building sewer.  Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of §
52.016, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Written permit required; application.  Before commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit signed by the County Health Sanitarian.  The application for
the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the county with a copy filed
with the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Sanitarian.
   (C)   Inspection of installation by Sanitarian.  A permit for a private
sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is
completed to the satisfaction of the Sanitarian.  He or she shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Sanitarian when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered.  The inspection
shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Sanitarian.
   (D)   Compliance with state regulations.  The type, capacities, location,
and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and
Community Development, Division of Environmental Management, and the County
Health Department.  No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 12,000 square feet.  No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   Connection to public sewer when available.  At the time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal
system, as provided in §
52.016, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter at the first malfunction of the private system; and any
septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall
be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   Operation in sanitary manner.  The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the town.
   (G)   Construction of connections to public sewer generally.  All
construction of, or connections to, the town sewer shall be in full compliance
with the North Carolina Building Code and the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
   (H)   Additional requirements may be imposed.  No statement contained in
this section shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements
that may be imposed by the County Sanitarian.
(1983 Code, § 17-72)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018  PROHIBITIONS ON DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge wastes to a town sanitary sewer which cause,
threaten to cause, or are capable of causing, either alone or by interaction
with other substances:
   (A)   A fire or explosion;
   (B)   Obstruction of flow or injury to the treatment works;
   (C)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
   (D)   A strong offensive odor that inhibits the effective maintenance or
operation of the treatment work or results in public complaints;
   (E)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or noxious
gas-producing substances;
   (F)   Interference with the treatment process;
   (G)   The town’s effluent or any other product of the treatment process,
residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process;
   (H)   A condition unacceptable to any public agency having regulatory
jurisdiction over the final discharge of the town’s treatment works;
   (I)   Conditions at or near the town’s treatment works which violate any
statute or any lawful rule, regulations, or ordinance of any state or federal
agency having jurisdiction over the town; and/or
   (J)   The town’s treatment works to be hydraulically overloaded or cause
physical damage or injury to collection system or treatment works.
(1983 Code, § 17-73)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019  PROHIBITION OF STORM DRAINAGE AND GROUNDWATER.
   (A)   Stormwater, groundwater, rainwater, street drainage, subsurface
drainage, or yard drainage shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a town sewer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any storm drain, private or town,
any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge uncontaminated cooling water into
the town’s storm sewer system.
(1983 Code, § 17-74)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.020  PROHIBITION OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water, included by way of illustration, but not limited to,
cooling water, process water, or blow-down water from cooling towers or
evaporative coolers, shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a town sewer, unless a permit is issued by the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-75)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021  LIMITATIONS ON RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any radioactive waste
into a town sewer, except:
   (A)   When the person is authorized to use radioactive materials by the
North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development,
Division of Environmental Management, or other government agency empowered to
regulate the use of radioactive materials;
   (B)   When the waste is discharged in strict conformity with the current
North Carolina Radiation Control and Atomic Energy Commission (A.E.C.)
regulations and recommendations for safe disposal;
   (C)   When the person is in compliance with all lawful rules and regulations
of all other applicable regulatory agencies having jurisdiction; and
   (D)   (1)   When several users are discharging radioactive wastes or
materials to the public sewer, they shall, upon notification, cooperate in
limiting the release of the material and shall file with the town a statement
of their agreed prorate discharges.
      (2)   If this is not done within a reasonable time after notifications,
sewer use may be discontinued by the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-76)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022  LIMITATIONS ON USE OF GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   (A)   Acceptable wastes.  Waste from garbage shredders and grinders shall
not be acceptable for discharge into a town sewer, except as follows:
      (1)   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on
domestic premises; or
      (2)   Where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use from the
town, and agrees to undertake whatever self-monitoring is required to enable
the town to determine the waste constituents and characteristics and applicable
fees and charges.
   (B)   Size of particles.  The grinders must shred the waste to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in
the town sewer.  Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper
products, inert materials, or garden refuse.
(1983 Code, § 17-77)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023  LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or other
opening in a town sewer other than through an approved building sewer, unless
he or she has been issued a permit by the town.  If a permit is issued for a
direct discharge, the user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and shall
meet the other conditions necessary to properly treat this discharge as
required by the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-78)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024  HOLDING TANK WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any holding tank waste, including by
definition, but not limited to, pumpings from septic tanks into a town sewer,
unless he or she has been issued a permit by the town.  Unless otherwise
allowed by the town under the terms and conditions of the permit, a separate
permit must be secured for each separate discharge.  This permit will state the
specific location of discharge, the time of day the discharge is to occur, the
volume of the discharge, and the wastewater constituents and characteristics. 
If a permit is granted for discharge of the waste into a town sewer, the user
shall pay the applicable charges and fees and shall meet the other conditions
necessary to properly treat this discharge as required by the town.  An
exception to the above is that no permit will be required for discharge of
domestic wastes from recreational motor home holding tanks, provided that the
discharges are made into a town approved facility designed to receive the
wastes.
   (B)   Monitoring facilities for holding type wastes such as those described
in this section shall be provided by the user when, in the judgment of the
approving authority, they are deemed necessary for monitoring purposes.
(1983 Code, § 17-79)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.025  LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   In order that the biological treatment process is not subjected to
unacceptable levels of toxic wastes and so that the process can function
properly to meet state and federal standards, it shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge into the town’s wastewater collection system waters (as
measured by any sample collected by the town) containing an excess of:
      (1)   Any of the following elements:
Constituent Code Maximum Permissible Concentration
Constituent    Code  Maximum Permissible Concentration
Aluminum       Al    5 mg/l
Arsenic        As    0.05 mg/l
Barium         Ba    0.5 mg/l
Boron          B     0.5 mg/l
Cadmium        Cd    0.5 mg/l
Cobalt         Co    0.5 mg/l
Copper         Cu    0.5 mg/l
Cyanide        CN    0.1 mg/l
Iron           Fe    35 mg/l
Lead           Pb    0.5 mg/l
Manganese      Mn    0.5 mg/l
Mercury        Hg    0.1 mg/l
Nickel         Ni    0.5 mg/l
Silver         Ag    0.1 mg/l
Total Chromium Cr    0.5 mg/l
Vanadium       V     0.5 mg/l
Zinc           Zn    0.5 mg/l
Chloroform     CHCI3 1 mg/l
Selenium       Se    0.5 mg/l
Sulfate        SO4   500 mg/l
Sulfide        S     2 mg/l
Free Acidity   -     0
Alkalinity     City may require alkalinity addition up to 7.5 times the NH3-
               N concentration of the discharge in question
 
      (2)   Except in cases where one or more of the above constituents are
found in the drinking water supply.  In those cases, the limits shall be the
amounts listed plus the amounts found in drinking water.  The amount of
constituents in the drinking water supply shall be determined on samples caught
at the particular industry during a normal operating day.  The sample will be
caught within the plant at a well used tap after running the tap a suitable
length of time to remove water that has been standing in the lines (15-minute
minimum);
      (3)   Having an ammonia nitrogen content of more than 40 mg/l;
      (4)   Having a five-day B.O.D. of more than 600 mg/l;
      (5)   Having a T.S.S. content of more than 500 mg/l;
      (6)   Having a C.O.D. of more than 1,500 mg/l;
      (7)   Having a pH lower than 6.5;
      (8)   Having a pH higher than nine;
      (9)   Having a temperature higher than 120°F, 49°C;
      (10)   Containing more than 100 mg/l (total) of oil and grease of animal
or vegetable and of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (11)   Containing in excess of 0.02 mg/l total identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons;
      (12)   Containing one mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by
the town’s treatment process;
      (13)   Containing any toxic substances or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantities to interfere with the biological processes used by the
town’s treatment works;
      (14)   Containing strong iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions, unless pretreated in a way so as to comply with all other
limitations of §
52.018;
      (15)   Containing any solid or viscous substance, including, but not
being limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, bones, feathers, slurry, lime residues, slops, whole blood, fleshings,
chemical residues, paint residues, waxes, asphalt, hair, tar, plastics, wood,
paunch manure, butcher’s offal, animal viscera, lime, or any solid or viscous
substances capable of causing obstructions of any kind in either the collection
system or at any point in the treatment plant.  Also, any waste resulting from
process(es) involving textiles, fabrics, wood, or other processes containing
inert fibrous materials shall undergo evaluation by the town.  Since some of
these processes have been shown to be detrimental to the treatment of waste at
the existing waste plant, the evaluation procedure will be concerned with
residual fibre within the treatment plant and its discharges.  Any process
determined by the town to be creating adverse conditions within the treatment
plant by the collection of fibrous or inert materials in its basins,
clarifiers, or discharges shall not be allowed to continue disposing of its
waste into the sanitary sewer collection system, but shall dispose of its waste
by alternative means;
      (16)   Containing any liquid waste or other substance that contains dyes
or other color of a character and quantity as to prevent removal by biological
processes employed at the treatment plant;
      (17)   Containing any liquid or other substances that, after normal
treatment, require excessive amounts of chlorine for pathogenic disinfection. 
This excess chlorine demand exerted by the waste shall be determined by
comparing the chlorine demand of the waste to obtain a free residual of 0.5 mg/
l to 15 ppm, which shall be considered to be the maximum use rate for domestic
waste to obtain the same residual;
      (18)   Of the industrial variety with a volume that the peak hourly flow
exceeds a gallons per day rate of 200% of the total daily flow of the
industry.  In these cases where a peak hourly flow of more than 200% is
discharged, the town may require the discharger to provide holding facilities
of sufficient capacity so as to discharge into the collection system at an
assigned rate over a specified period of time.  Industrial dischargers, which
discharge hydraulic volumes equal to or greater than 15% of the treatment works
design capacity, may be required to provide flow equalization facilities
designed in accordance with the current edition of E.P.A. Process Manual for
Upgrading Existing Wastewater Plants; and/or
      (19)   Of a nature that will cause contamination of the wastes in the
collection system, or which may contaminate the treatment plant, or the
receiving waters of the state, resulting in injury or harm to persons,
livestock, or aquatic life.
   (B)   Users in industrial categories subject to effluent guidelines issued
under § 304(b) of the Federal Act, which are discharging incompatible
pollutants to publicly owned treatment works, are required to adopt best
practicable control technology currently available, as defined by the
administrator pursuant to § 304(b) of the Act.  Where the town’s treatment
works was designed to and does achieve substantial removal of pollutants, other
than the four pollutants listed in the definition for compatible pollutants in
§
52.002 (B.O.D., T.S.S., pH, and fecal coliform bacteria), the Director of Water
Resources may not require the user to achieve best practicable control
technology currently available, since this would lead to an uneconomical
duplication of treatment facilities.  While the term substantial removal is not
subject to precise definition, it generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater; minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial.  For some industrial categories, it may be necessary to
define pretreatment guidelines for problems that may arise as a result of the
discharge into the town’s treatment works.  However, any adjustments required
for particular industrial categories should be considered in connection with
the town’s requirements, rather than in the national pretreatment standard. 
And in no case shall any user be allowed to exceed the limits stated in
division (A)(1) above.  Limitations on wastewater strength in this chapter may
be supplemented with more stringent limitations pursuant to §
52.062.
   (C)   If the town determines that the limitations in this section may not be
sufficient to enable the town’s treatment works to comply with water quality
standards or effluent limitations specified in the town’s national pollutant
discharge elimination system (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, or if National Pretreatment
Guidelines issued by E.P.A. in the future exhibit lower values than those
values listed in this section, or add a parameter to those values listed in
this section, the town may require additional compliances by reissuance of
permits outlined in §
52.062.
(1983 Code, § 17-80)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026  DISPOSAL OF UNACCEPTABLE WASTE.
   Waste not permitted to be discharged into the town sewer must be transported
to a state-approved disposal site.
(1983 Code, § 17-81)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027  SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes (discharged or proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers) contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in §§ 52.015 et seq., and which, in the judgment of the approving
authority, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which create a hazard to life, or
constitute a public nuisance, the approving authority may reject the wastes.
   (B)   The town may discontinue water service or sewer service, or both, to
any user who violates §§ 52.015 et seq. when, in the judgment of the approving
authority, the action is necessary to protect the wastewater treatment works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters from injury or damage, or is
necessary to protect life or health.
(1983 Code, § 17-82)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028  FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.  The
Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.12.
(1983 Code, § 17-83)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.029  MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where the town’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the town may
apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
federal pretreatment standards.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSISTENT REMOVAL.  Reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration
of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater treatment system to a less
toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is achieved by the system 95% of
the samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in 40
C.F.R. pt. 403.7(c)(2), General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New
Sources of Pollution, promulgated pursuant to the Act.
   (C)   The town may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal
pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.7,
are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is obtained.
(1983 Code, § 17-84)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.030  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(1983 Code, § 17-85)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.031  TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance, more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system, if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in § 52.001.
(1983 Code, § 17-86)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.032  EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the town or state.  (Dilution may be an acceptable
means of complying with some of the prohibitions set forth in §
52.025, such as, the pH prohibition.)
(1983 Code, § 17-87)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Prevention; notification requirements.  Each user shall provide
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other
substances regulated by this chapter.  Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the
user’s own cost and expense.  Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the town for
review, and shall be approved by the town before construction of the facility. 
All existing users shall complete the plan by 6-1-1988.  No user who commences
contribution to the P.O.T.W. after the effective date of this chapter shall be
permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge
procedures have been approved by the town.  Review and approval of the plans
and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the
responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.  In the case of an accidental discharge, it is
the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the P.O.T.W.
of the incident.  The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice.  Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences.  The notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the P.O.T.W., fish kills, or any other damage to person
or property; nor shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees.  A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent places advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge.  Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
(1983 Code, § 17-88)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
WASTEWATER VOLUME DETERMINATION
§ 52.045  METERED WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   When charges and fees are based upon the water usage, the charges and
fees shall be applied against the total amount of water used from all sources,
public and private, determined by means of the user and approved by the town,
adding private sources volume to the metered water consumption.
   (B)   When unpolluted water is prohibited as per §
52.020, charges and fees will be applied only against the total wastewater
discharged to the town’s sanitary sewer.  In that case, volume of wastewater
discharged shall be determined by a flow measuring and totalizing device
purchased, installed, and maintained by the user.  The location and type of the
devices must be approved by the Director of Water Resources of the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-90)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
DISCHARGE REPORT; WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 52.060  WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a town permit to any natural
outlet within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, and/
or to the P.O.T.W., any wastewater, except as authorized by the Superintendent
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1983 Code, § 17-100)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061  DISCHARGE REPORTS.
   The town will require that any person discharging, or proposing to
discharge, wastewater of the industrial variety into a town sewer file a
periodic discharge report.  The discharge report may include, but not be
limited to, nature of process, volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate,
production quantities, hours of operation, number and classification of
employees, or other information which relates to the generation of waste,
including wastewater discharge.  The reports may also include the chemical
constituents and quantity of liquid or gaseous materials stored on-site, even
though they are not normally discharged.  In addition to discharge reports, the
town will require information in the form of wastewater discharge permit
applications and self-monitoring reports.
(1983 Code, § 17-101)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Mandatory permits.  Each discharger of industrial wastewaters, if not
connected to a town sewer, must obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or discharging into a town sewer.  Each currently connecting
industry must obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 120 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Optional permits.  The town may issue a wastewater discharge permit to
any user upon application, in accordance with the terms of this section in the
following category:  Any user whose wastewater contains no incompatible wastes
and whose compatible waste strength is less than the normal range for domestic
wastes because of pretreatment, process changes, or other reasons.
   (C)   Permit application; fee.  Users required to obtain a wastewater
contribution permit shall complete and file with the town an application in the
form prescribed by the town and accompanied by a fee determined by the Board of
Commissioners from time to time.  Existing users shall apply for a wastewater
contribution permit within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter,
and proposed new users shall apply at least 60 days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the P.O.T.W.  In support of the application, the user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and standard industrial classification number of
applicant;
      (2)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §
52.025 as determined by a laboratory approved by the town.  The town will make
this determination available to industry for a fee;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly, and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials, processes, and types of materials which are
or could be discharged;
      (8)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production;
      (9)   Number and type of employees and hours of work;
      (10)   S.I.C. number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (11)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (12)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
the additional pretreatment.  The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard.  The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such as, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plan, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, and the
like).
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (C)(12)(a) above shall
exceed nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the
user to return the construction to the schedule established.  In no event shall
more than six months elapse between the progress reports to the Superintendent.
      (13)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (14)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (15)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (16)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
(1983 Code, § 17-102)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063  PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Generally.  The wastewater contribution permit of each user subject to
the standards shall be reviewed yearly to ensure compliance with the national
categorical pretreatment standard, as revised.  Where a user, subject to a
national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an
application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by §
52.062, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard.  In addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution
permit shall submit to the Superintendent, within 180 days after the
promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard, the
information required by §§
52.062(C)(12) and (C)(13).
   (B)   Permit specifications.
      (1)   Permit conditions.  Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances,
regulations, charges, and fees established by the town.  The conditions of
wastewater discharge permits shall be uniformly enforced by the Town Clerk in
accordance with this chapter, and applicable state and federal regulations. 
Permits may contain the following information:
         (a)   The unit charge or schedule of charges and fees for the
wastewaters to be discharged to a town sewer;
         (b)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (c)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
         (d)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
         (e)   Pretreatment requirements;
         (f)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types, and
standards for tests and reporting schedule; (See division (B)(1)(m) below.)
         (g)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
         (h)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharges as specified by the town, and affording town access
thereto;
         (i)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate
limits, when incompatible pollutants (as set out by §
52.025) are proposed or present in the user’s wastewater discharge;
         (j)   Other conditions as may be reasonably deemed appropriate by the
town to ensure compliance with this chapter;
         (k)   Requirements for notification of the town or any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
         (l)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges
as per §
52.105; and/or
         (m)   Where the town has records of previous monitors of wastes of
existing industries, this information will be used to determine frequency and
methods of sampling, number, type, and standards for test, reports and charges
will be set accordingly and included in the permit conditions.  Also, where
pollutants are discharged which can be accepted but are not surcharged and cost
of treatment can be determined, these charges will also be included in the
permit.
      (2)   Duration of permits.  Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued
for a specified time period, not to exceed five years.  A permit may be issued
for a period less than a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. 
If the user is not notified by the town 60 days prior to the expiration of the
permit, the permit shall be extended one additional year.  The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification and change by the town
during the life of the permit as limitations or requirements, as identified in
§
52.025, are modified and changed.  The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in his or her permit at least 60 days prior to the effective date of
change.  Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
      (3)   Transfer of permit.  Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation.  A wastewater discharge permit shall
not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different
premises, or another or changed operation.
      (4)   Suspension or revocation of permit.  Any user who violates the
conditions of the wastewater discharge permit, and provisions of the chapter,
applicable state and federal regulations, or any of the following, is subject
to having his or her permit suspended or revoked:
         (a)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations
or wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (d)   Failure to report a chemical spill or accidental discharge as in §
52.105.
(1983 Code, § 17-103)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.064  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Compliance date report.  Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
P.O.T.W., any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall
submit to the Superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration
of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process, which are
limited by pretreatment standards and requirements, and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user facility, which are limited by
the pretreatment standards or requirements.  The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements.  This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative
of the industrial user and certified to by a qualified professional.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of the pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the P.O.T.W., shall submit to the
Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by the pretreatment standards.  In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the
average daily flow reported in division (A) above.  At the discretion of the
Superintendent and in consideration of factors such as local high or low flow
rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the Superintendent may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate.  In those
cases, the report required by this section shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulations by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user. 
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the Superintendent, of pollutants contained therein
which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards.  The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard.  All
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. pt.
136, and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the
administrator.  Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
approved by the administrator.
   (C)   Sampling or analytical technique.  Where 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 does not
include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the E.P.A. publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening
of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutant, April, 1977, and amendments
thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the
administrator.
(1983 Code, § 17-104)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.065  MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users who propose to discharge, or who in the judgment of the
approving authority likely could discharge, wastewater with constituents and
characteristics different from that produced by a domestic premises may be
required to install a monitoring facility.
   (B)   When more than one user can discharge into a common building sewer,
the approving authority may require installation of a separate monitoring
facility for each user.  Also, when, in the judgment of the approving
authority, there is a significant difference in the wastewater constituents and
characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the
approving authority may require that separate monitoring facilities be
installed for each separate discharge.
   (C)   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be
constructed, operated, and maintained by the user at the user’s expense.  The
purpose of the facility is to enable inspection, sampling, and flow measurement
of wastewater produced by a user.  If sampling or metering equipment is
required by the town, it shall be provided, installed, and operated at the
user’s expense.  The monitoring facility will normally be required to be
located on the user’s premises outside of the building.  The town may, however,
when a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow
the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalks area with the
approval of the public agency having jurisdiction over that street or sidewalk,
and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (D)   If the monitoring facility is inside the user’s fence, there shall be
accommodations to allow safe and immediate access for town personnel, such as a
gate secured with a town lock.  There will be ample room in or near the
facility to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. 
The entire facility and the sampling and measuring equipment shall be supplied
and maintained by the user, at his or her expense.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the town’s requirements and
all applicable local town construction standards and specifications.  When in
the judgment of the town an existing user is required to have a monitoring
facility, the user will be so notified in writing.  Construction must be
completed within 90 days following a written notification, unless a time
extension is otherwise granted by the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-105)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with.  Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town or its representatives ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for purposes of inspection or
sampling or in performance of any of their duties.  The town shall have the
right to set up on the user’s property devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling or metering operations.  Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town
will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(1983 Code, § 17-106)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067  PRETREATMENT.
   Users shall make wastewater acceptable under the limitations established
herein before discharging into any town sewer.  Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the town shall be provided and
maintained at the user’s expense.  Pretreatment facilities shall be operated
continuously during periods of wastewater discharge to the town sewers in a
manner so as to produce a pretreated discharge acceptable to the town, as
defined in §§ 52.025, 52.045, and 52.060 through 52.062.  Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facility and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the town for review, and shall be approved by the town before construction
of the facility.  The review and approval of the plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent complying with the provisions of
this chapter.  Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facility of method or
operation shall be reported to and be approved by the approving authority.
(1983 Code, § 17-107)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068  PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter.  Facilities to
prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the user’s expense.  Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the town
for review, and shall be approved by the town before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   The review and approval of the plans and operating procedures will in
no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(1983 Code, § 17-108)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.069  CONTROL MANHOLE.
   A control manhole shall be provided downstream from any building, treatment,
storage tank, or any other approved works to facilitate monitoring of
industrial waste.  The discharger shall provide and maintain the control
manhole pursuant to §
52.065.  Any and all users may be required by the town to construct a control
manhole.  The user who has constructed a monitoring facility, §
52.065, may be waived of the requirement of a control manhole by the approving
authority.
(1983 Code, § 17-109)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070  FLOW CONTROL MEASURING EQUIPMENT.
   Where preliminary treatment, flow-equalizing facilities, or flow-monitoring
facilities are provided for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the user at his or her
expense.  All flow control equipment, including, but not limited to, pumps,
nozzles, weirs, gates, valves, and flumes, shall be subject to the approval of
the approving authority.
(1983 Code, § 17-110)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the town that the release of the information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secretes or secret processes shall not be
made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, state
disposal system permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however,
that the portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any
state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.  Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the town as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the town
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(1983 Code, § 17-111)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
WASTEWATER CHARGES AND FEES
§ 52.085  SCHEDULE OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   A schedule of charges and fees shall be adopted by the town, which will
enable it to comply with the revenue requirements of the State Clean Water
Grant Program, Pub. L. No. 660 and Pub. L. No. 92-500, and the charges and fees
shall be determined in a manner consistent with the regulations of the grant
programs that have benefitted the town and its industrial users.  All
industries using the town’s treatment works are subject to industrial waste
surcharges on discharges whose characteristics exceed the limits set out in §
52.087 for certain pollutants. (1983 Code, § 17-120)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.086  TYPES OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   The charges and fees, as established in the town’s schedules of charges and
fees, may include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   User classification charges;
   (B)   Fees for extra monitoring, such as, that which requires costs above
the average cost of assessing an average or representative analysis;
   (C)   Fees for permit applications (include regular monitor charges on
permit);
   (D)   Appeal fees;
   (E)   Ad valorem tax;
   (F)   Industrial waste surcharges;
   (G)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the town’s
pretreatment program; and
   (H)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction. 
These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-121)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.087  BASIS FOR DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Charges and fees shall be based upon a minimum basic charge for each
premises, computed on the basis of wastewater from a domestic premises with the
following characteristics:
      (1)   B.O.D.:  250 mg/l;
      (2)   T.S.S.:  250 mg/l; and
      (3)   Oil and grease (total):  40 mg/l.
   (B)   The charges and fees established for permit users shall be based upon
the measured or estimated constituents and characteristics of the wastewater
discharge of that user, which may include, but not be limited to, B.O.D., oil
and grease, chlorine demand, and volume.
(1983 Code, § 17-122)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.088  METHOD OF DETERMINING SURCHARGES.
   The charges for excesses of the constituents listed in §
52.087 will be based upon the mass emission rate of those constituents and
determined thus.
   (A)   Mass emission rate.
      MER ( ) = MG x C x 8.34
Where:
MER is the mass emission rate in pounds of a particular constituent;
MG is the millions of gallons of wastewater discharged;
C is the concentration in mg/l of the particular constituent being charged for,
such as, B.O.D., C.O.D., and the like; and
8.34 is equal to the number of pounds/one gallon of water.
   (B)   The amount of the charge in dollars will be calculated thus.
Ao = R x MER ( )
Where:
Ao is equal to the amount of the charge in dollars;
R is equal to the rate of charge per pound of constituent; and
MER ( ) is equal to the pounds of a constituent.
   (C)   An example of surcharge.  Cannon’s Corporation is a producer of canned
fruits.  They discharged 1,000,000 gallons of wastewater in the month of
January.  Analysis found that the wastewater had the following characteristics:
  B.O.D. = 400 mg/l; T.S.S. = 950 mg/l.  There were no other limitations
exceeded in this example.  There were 100 employees employed at the cannery. 
The limits of B.O.D. and T.S.S. are 250 mg/l.
The MER of B.O.D. is equal to:
MERBOD   = (400-250) x 8.34 x 1MG
      = (150) x 8.34 x 1
      = 1,251 lbs. of B.O.D. or 1.251
          thousand lbs. B.O.D.
If the charge for BOD is R = $380/1,000 lbs. B.O.D., then the total charge for
B.O.D. is equal to, as:
   Ao   = R x MER
   Ao = $380 x 1.251
   Ao = $475.38
For T.S.S., the charge would be computed thus:
MERTSS   = (950-250) x 8.34 x 1MG
      = 700 x 8.34 x 1
      = 5,838 lbs. T.S.S. or 5.838
          thousand lbs. T.S.S.
At a charge of $50/thousand lbs., the charge for T.S.S. = 5.838 x $380 =
$2,218.44
Total surcharge for January
   = B.O.D. Charge = $475.38
   = T.S.S. Charge = $2,218.44
Total surcharge for January = $475.38 + $2,218.44 =$2,693.82
(1983 Code, § 17-123)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.089  METHOD OF DETERMINING CHARGE RATES.
   The Town Board will annually review the actual cost of operation and
maintenance of the town’s wastewater treatment plants and adjust the surcharge
rates and the volume user charge rate (per 1,000 gallons) to reflect the true
cost of constituent treatment.  The adjustments, if any, will become effective
following the first day of each new fiscal year.  The Town Board may review
these rates and adjust them accordingly at any time it deems adjustments are in
the best interest of the town.
(1983 Code, § 17-124)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.090  SAMPLING PROCEDURES AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All samples and determinations of wastewater characteristics shall be
as representative of the waste discharge as possible.  The costs of regular
sampling and analysis will be included in the permit or class type.  The town
may take additional samples after a significant process change which
significantly affects the quantity or strength of the wastewater discharged. 
The frequency of sampling shall be as shown in the table below.  More frequent
sampling may be done at any time at the option of the city or any industry
where pretreatment is required or that has discharged incompatible wastes in
the past.
 
Daily Average Flow (Thousand Gallons Minimum Required Frequency of Tests for
Per Day)                             Surcharge Parameters
0 - 20                               1 per year
20 - 30                              1 per 6 months
30 - 40                              1 per 3 months
40 - 50                              1 per month
Over 50                              2 per month
 
   (B)   (1)   Upon request by the person concerned, the town shall make
available split samples of the composite sample collected.
      (2)   If the person feels the results are not representative of their
wastes, the town may resample at a cost to the user to be determined by the
Board of
Commissioners from time to time, which will include sampling and analysis for
B.O.D., T.S.S., C.O.D., pH, chlorine demand, and oil and grease.
      (3)   Heavy metals analysis, if necessary, will be at an extra charge to
be determined by the Board.
(1983 Code, § 17-125)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.091  SAMPLING SMALL INDUSTRIES.
   Small industries with inadequate sampling facilities may, in the event that
waste characteristics do not vary more than 25%, be charged an estimated or
average surcharge for that industry.
(1983 Code, § 17-126)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.105  DUTIES OF USER UPON UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater permit when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the town,
in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes interference to the P.O.T.W., or causes the
town to violate any condition of its N.P.D.E.S. permit.
   (B)   Any user who discharges wastes in violation of this chapter shall,
upon discovery thereof, immediately notify the Director of Water Resources so
that the town may take necessary countermeasures to minimize the damage to the
town sewer, treatment facilities, treatment processes, and receiving waters. 
The user shall immediately correct the source of the violation.  In addition,
the user shall, within 15 days of the occurrence, deliver to the Director of
Water Resources a written, detailed report describing the cause of the
discharge and the measures taken or to be taken to prevent a reoccurrence in
the future.
   (C)   Any user who has an accidental discharge which violates this chapter
and who gives notice and report provided for in division (B) above shall be
relieved from any civil or criminal penalties, unless the violations continue
or reoccur.  In no case shall the user be relieved from liability to the town
for any expenses, loss, or damage to the town’s sewer system, treatment
facility, treatment processes, or receiving waters, nor from liability for any
fines imposed upon the town by:
      (1)   The North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development, Division of Environmental Management, under provisions of G.S. §
143-215.6(A) through 143-215.6(C); or
      (2)   The Environmental Protection Agency, under any applicable federal
law or regulation, nor from termination of service, suspension, or revocation
of any discharge permit or injunctive relief if the measures taken or to be
taken to prevent a reoccurrence are not adequate.
(1983 Code, § 17-130)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.106  INJUNCTION AND ABATEMENT.
   The violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement in an
action instituted in the General Court of Justice, as provided in G.S. § 160A-
175.
(1983 Code, § 17-132)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.107  TERMINATION OF SERVICE; REVOCATION OF PERMITS; ISSUANCE OF CEASE AND
DESIST ORDERS.
   If any person violates any provisions of this chapter, the town may:
   (A)   Terminate water or sewer service, or both, to the property in or upon
which the violation occurred;
   (B)   Suspend for a specified period of time or permanently revoke any
permit granted to the user under any provisions of this chapter; or
   (C)   Issue a cease and desist order directing the user to:
      (1)   Comply with this chapter forthwith;
      (2)   Comply with this chapter in accordance with a time schedule set
forth by the town;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action; or
      (4)   A combination of divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) above.
(1983 Code, § 17-133)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.108  NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the town finds that any user has violated or is violating this
chapter, wastewater contribution permit, or any prohibition, limitation of
requirements contained herein, the town may serve upon the person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation.  Within 30 days of the date of the
notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to
the town by the user.
(1983 Code, § 17-134)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.109  SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The town may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to enter the P.O.T.W. to show cause before the Town Board why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken.  A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the Town
Board regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before the
Town Board why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.  The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.  Service may
be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   The Town Board may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence,
or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the (assigned
department) to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Town Board notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in the hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Town Board
for action thereon.
(1983 Code, § 17-135)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.110  TESTIMONY TO BE TAKEN UNDER OATH AND RECORDED AT HEARINGS.
   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be under
oath and recorded stenographically.  The transcript, so recorded, will be made
available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment
of the usual charges thereof.
(1983 Code, § 17-136)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
§ 52.111  ORDERS TO DISCONTINUE SEWER SERVICE.
   After the Town Board has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances shall have been installed on existing
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly
operated.  Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may
be issued.
(1983 Code, § 17-137)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
FATS, OILS AND GREASE CONTROL
§ 52.120  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulations of fats, oils,
and greases into the town’s sewer collection system from industrial or
commercial establishments, particularly food preparation and serving
facilities.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 52.121  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.  A permit granted by the Public Works Director to
allow the use of alternate measures other than a traditional grease interceptor
for the purpose of preventing the introduction of fats, oils, and greases into
the town sewer collection system.  Such are allowed only when the user
demonstrates a bona fide logistical hardship to installing an outside grease
interceptor.
48   White Lake - Public Works
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS.  Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs and which use one or more of the following preparation activities: 
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sautéing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or poaching. Also
included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any other food
preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or on a
receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES.  Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES .
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR.   A device for separating and retaining
waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the
trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection treatment system. These devices
also serve to collect solids, generated by and from food preparation
activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS  and INTERCEPTORS  are sometimes
referred to as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   INSIDE INTERCEPTOR.  A device installed inside an establishment to separate
and retain waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to entering the
sanitary sewer collection system.  Such are allowed by conditional use permit
only.
   MEALS SERVED PROCEDURE FORMULA.   (# of meals) x (4.5) x kitchen loading-KL
= trap volume (gal).
 
Kitchen Loading             KL
Food grinder and dishwasher 2.50
Without food grinder        2.00
Without dishwasher          1.50
Without food grinder and DW 1.00
 
Example: 200 meals/day facility with food grinder and dishwasher, 200x
(4.5)x2.5=2,250 gal interceptor.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuff preparation and serving
establishments.
   SEATING CAPACITY PROCEDURE FORMULA.  (# of seats) x (storage factor-SF) x ½
# of hours open = trap volume (gal).
 
Storage Factor  SF
0-8 hours/day   1
8-16 hours/day  2
16-24 hours/day 3
 
Example: 50-seat restaurant open 12 hours/day (50)x(12)x1/2 = 600 gal
interceptor –750 gal min.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the town, who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution or discharge
of wastewater into the POTW, including persons who contribute such wastewater
from mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 52.122  GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by the
Public Works Director or his or her designee.  Grease interceptors shall be
installed at the user’s expense, when such user operates a restaurant, school,
child care facility with 20 or more children, deli, meat market, grocery store,
bakery, entertainment club, caterer, church and fraternal organization, or when
deemed necessary by the Public Works Director for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease or any other substance deemed harmful to the sewer
system.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may permit, at his or her sole discretion,
alternative means of grease removal other than the traditional outside grease
trap. Such granting shall be by way of the issuance of a conditional use
permit. A conditional use permit may be granted only when the requesting
establishment has a bona fide hardship with installing a traditional
interceptor.  Bona fide hardships may include, but are not limited to:
insufficient property requirements and logistically impractical compliance
issues.
   (C)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design, and capacity
approved by the Public Works Director or his or her designee and shall be
readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town inspection. The sizing
of grease traps will be based on the number of seats (seating capacity
procedure) or the number of meals served in a single day (meals served
procedure) or other methods approved by the Public Works Director. All such
grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content
as required in order to maintain minimum design capability or effective volume
of the grease interceptor, but not less often than once every other month or
more often, as determined by the Public Works Director. Inside interceptors
shall be cleaned a minimum of once every 14 days. Users who are required, based
on solids, to pass water through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle to accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket;”
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than every other month, at the user’s expense.
Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags
and the like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the
effective volume of the grease interceptor;
      (3)   Abide by the following conditions: If any skimmed or pumped wastes
or other materials removed from grease interceptor are treated in any fashion
onsite and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after said onsite treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment
of established grease numerical limit consistent with any contained in division
(A) of this section on all discharges of wastewater from said grease
interceptor into the town sanitary sewer collection and treatment system;
      (4)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain said
device such that attainment to the grease limit is consistently achieved.
CONSISTENT shall mean any wastewater sample taken from said grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described in division
(A) of this section. If legitimate space constraints (as determined by the
Public Works Director) exist that prohibit the sewer user from installing a
grease interceptor, a conditional use permit application requesting variance to
this subchapter may be submitted;
      (5)   Understand and agree that: The use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon approval by the
Public Works Director.  Any establishment using this method of grease abatement
shall maintain the trap or interceptor in such a manner that attainment of the
grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the trap’s outlet, is
consistently achieved;
      (6)   Understand and agree that: The use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the Public
Works Director, Bladen County Plumbing Inspector of the Town of White Lake and
the Bladen County Department of Health. Any establishment using this equipment
shall operate the system in such a manner that attainment of the grease
wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the unit’s outlet, is consistently
achieved; and
      (7)   Understand and agree that: The Public Works Director reserves the
right to make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on
review of all relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance,
facility site and building plan review and to require repairs to, or
modification or replacement of such traps.
   (D)   All grease traps must be pumped once every other month and records of
such supplied to the Public Works Director after each pumping. The Public Works
Director has the discretion to require more or less frequent pumping on a case-
by-case basis to protect the operation of the town’s sewer collection system. 
The town may provide a grease trap pumping program to allow for the convenient
maintenance, record keeping and service payment.
   (E)   The Public Services Department shall maintain records for those
participating in the town grease trap pumping program. All other users shall
provide a written record of trap maintenance to the Public Works Director
within 15 days of each mandatory pumping.  Records for users that have been
granted conditional use permits shall submit cleaning records bi-annually.
   (F)   No non-grease-laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (G)   Should an obstruction of the town sewer main(s) occur that causes a
sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and
that said overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey
sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in
the town’s sewer main(s), the town will take appropriate enforcement actions,
as stipulated in the town’s sewer use ordinance, against the generator or
contributor of such grease.
   (H)   Access manholes shall be provided over each chamber and sanitary tee.
The access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and be designed and
maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also
have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and
wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person (including any responsible officer or employee of a
corporate violator) who wilfully or negligently violates any provisions of this
chapter, or falsifies any information or data in any application, report, or
other document given to the town under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
   (B)   Any person (including any corporation) who violates any provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the imposition by the Town Board of a civil
penalty of not less than $200 nor more than $5,000 for each violation, and, in
addition, shall reimburse the town, upon demand, for any expenses, loss, or
damage actually sustained by the town to its sewer system, treatment plant,
treatment processes, or receiving waters as a result of the violation, and for
the amount of any fine or penalty imposed upon the town by any state or federal
regulatory agency as a result of the violation.  A civil penalty shall be
assessed only after the town shall have given the alleged violator notice of
contemplated Board action, and a hearing if requested.  If the offender fails
to pay the civil penalty so assessed within 15 days after written notice of
final assessment thereof, then the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
(1983 Code, § 17-131)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1988)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   LICENSING, TRAFFIC, AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  LICENSING, TRAFFIC, AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Vehicle Licensing
   
70.01   Required
Traffic and Parking Regulations
   
70.15   Signs
   
70.16   Approach of emergency vehicle
   
70.17   Driving over or blocking fire equipment
   
70.18   Reckless driving
   
70.19   Prohibited parking; generally
   
70.20   Vehicle size restrictions on certain residential streets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation of traffic, see G.S. §§ 20-169, 160A-300 et seq.
   Motor vehicle taxes, see G.S. § 160A-213
VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 70.01  REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every resident owner of motor vehicles operated in the town, except
motor vehicles operated for display or exhibition purposes by manufacturers or
dealers and displaying dealer's license plates issued by the state, shall
register the vehicles with the Bladen County Tax Assessor.
   (B)   The period of registration shall be from January 1 to December 31 of
each year.
(1983 Code, § 9-22)  (Ord. passed 3-10-1980)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.15  SIGNS.
   Signs shall be erected giving notices of all provisions of this title
regulating the speed of vehicles and parking.
(1983 Code, § 9-1)
§ 70.16  APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Upon the approach of any Police or Fire Department vehicle, or public or
private ambulance or rescue squad emergency service vehicle, giving a warning
signal by appropriate light and by audible bell, siren, or exhaust whistle;
audible under normal conditions from a distance not less than 1,000 feet; the
driver of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a position as
near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or curb, clear of any
intersection of streets or highways, and shall stop and remain in that
position, unless otherwise directed by a police or traffic officer, until the
Police or Fire Department vehicle, or public or private ambulance or rescue
squad emergency service vehicle, shall have passed.
(1983 Code, § 9-2)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-157
§ 70.17  DRIVING OVER OR BLOCKING FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle over a fire
hose or any other equipment that is being used at a fire at any time, or to
block a fire-fighting apparatus or any other equipment from its source of
supply, regardless of its distance from the fire.
(1983 Code, § 9-3)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-157
§ 70.18  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or any public
vehicular area carelessly and heedlessly in wilful or wanton disregard of the
rights or safety of others shall be guilty of reckless driving.
   (B)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or any public
vehicular area without due caution and circumspection, and at a speed or in a
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, shall
be guilty of reckless driving.
(1983 Code, § 9-4)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1956)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-140
§ 70.19  PROHIBITED PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended or
unattended, upon a highway in front of a private driveway; or within ten feet
in either direction of a fire hydrant; or within 15 feet of the entrance to a
fire station; or within 25 feet from the intersection of curblines; or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an
intersection of highways.
(1983 Code, § 9-5)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 70.20  VEHICLE SIZE RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to operate any vehicle with more than two axles on those specified
town-maintained residential streets identified on the town's current Powell
Bill map.
   (B)   The following types of vehicles shall be exempt from this section:
      (1)   Governmental services vehicles, specifically fire trucks, garbage
trucks, and street maintenance equipment; and
      (2)   Delivery-type trucks, such as a moving van or service truck, when
no other alternate route is available.
(1983 Code, § 9-11)  (Ord. passed 6-9-1992)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a fine that may be greater than $50, but not exceeding $500.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits; state and U.S. roads
   
II.   Speed limits; town streets
   
III.   Through truck traffic prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS; STATE AND U.S. ROADS.
   Based upon an engineering and traffic investigation pursuant to authority
granted by G.S. §§ 20-141(d)(1) and (d)(2), the speed limits set forth in the
table below shall apply.
 
Street          Location         Speed  Ord./Res. No. Date Passed     1983 Code
                From a point
                fifteen
                hundredths mile
                northwest of
                State Road 1515,
                northwestward to
North Carolina  a point one and
53              sixty-one        55 mph Ord. -        11-12-1996      -
                hundredths miles
                northwest of
                State Road 1515,
                in accordance
                with State
                Ordinance Number
                080200061
                From a point
                four-tenths mile
                north of North          Res.-
State Road 1515 Carolina 53 to a 20 mph Ord. -        8-26-1966; 2-6- § 9-9
                point one and           Ord. -        1975; 7-2-1985
                two-tenths miles
                north of North
                Carolina 53
                From a point one
                and two-tenths
                miles north of          Res.-         8-26-1966; 2-6-
State Road 1515 North Carolina   35 mph Ord. -        1975; 7-2-1985  § 9-9
                53 to U.S. 701-         Ord. -
                North Carolina
                41
                From North
                Carolina 41 to
                the northern
                corporate limit,        Res.-         8-26-1966; 2-6-
U.S. 701        approximately    55 mph Ord. -        1975; 7-2-1985  § 9-9
                five hundredths         Ord. -
                mile north of
                North Carolina
                41
                From the western
                corporate limit,
                approximately
                sixty-seven             Res.-
U.S. 701        hundredths mile  45 mph Ord. -        8-26-1966; 2-6- § 9-9
                west of State           Ord. -        1975; 7-2-1985
                Road 1515,
                eastward to
                North Carolina
                41
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed restrictions, see G.S. § 20-141
SCHEDULE II.  SPEED LIMITS; TOWN STREETS.
Street Location Speed (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location            Speed (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
Alexander Street  -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Alford Drive      -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Atkinson Drive    -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Azalea Lane       -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Clinton Drive     -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Clinton Road      -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Fayetteville Road -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Lake Drive        -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Lennondale Drive  -                   20          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Louise Avenue     -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Melvin Street     -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Myrtle Avenue     -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Sessoms Street    -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Timberlodge       -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
Village                                                    6-8-1993
                  From a point
                  beginning forty-
                  seven hundredths
                  mile from U.S. 701
                  to approximately
                  two hundredths mile
Turtle Cove Drive north and to a      15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                  point thirty-eight                       6-8-1993
                  hundredths mile
                  south on that
                  portion of Turtle
                  Cove Drive running
                  parallel to White
                  Lake
                  From U.S. 701 for a
                  distance of
                  approximately
                  forty-seven
Turtle Cove Drive hundredths mile to  25          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                  a point where                            6-8-1993
                  Turtle Cove Drive
                  runs north and
                  south parallel to
                  White Lake
Williams Street   -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
Wilson Road       -                   15          -        6-1-1971; 6-4-1991;
                                                           6-8-1993
 
(1983 Code, § 9-10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   The town ordains that through truck traffic be prohibited on State Road
1515, from North Carolina 53 northward to U.S. 701; and that through truck
traffic be prohibited on State Road 1516, from State Road 1515 northward to
U.S. 701.
(1983 Code, § 9-13)  (Ord. passed 6-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   White Lake Dr.  There shall be no parking at any time along both sides
of White Lake Dr. (State Road 1515) from a point from Shane's Ski Burger, fifty
one-hundredths mile north of North Carolina 53 northward to Carolina Avenue a
distance of one and twenty one-hundredths miles.
(1983 Code, § 9-6)  (Res. passed 7-1-1982; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-1989)
   (B)   Powell Act streets.  No person shall park a motor vehicle along both
sides of White Lake Dr. within the corporate limits of the town which the town
has under the Powell Act (G.S. §§ 136-41.1 et seq.), and which has been
accepted by the town as a town street.
(1983 Code, § 9-7)  (Ord. passed 7-5-1976)
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
90.   RESERVED
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
92.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED VEHICLES
   
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
95.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
   
96.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90:  RESERVED
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Duty of police
   
91.02   Hydrants
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection, see G.S. Ch. 58, Art. 82 and 83; Ch. 69
   Municipal fire protection, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 et seq.
§ 91.01  DUTY OF POLICE.
   It is the special duty of the Chief of Police, and/or other peace officers
who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to all fire alarms
and assist the Fire Department in the protection of life and property, in
regulating traffic, in maintaining order, and in enforcing observance of all
sections of this chapter.
(1983 Code, § 7-1)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962)
§ 91.02  HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Obstructing.  It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any
hydrant or fireplug in a manner as to interfere with the easy approach to or
the convenient use of the same by the Fire Department. (1983 Code, § 7-2)
   (B)   Painting.  It shall be unlawful for any person, other than employees,
agents, or other persons authorized by the town, to paint any hydrant or
fireplug belonging to the town.
(1983 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. passed 4-7-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Administration
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
92.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
92.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
92.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing requirements
   
92.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
92.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
92.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
92.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
92.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
92.14   Exceptions
   
92.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 92.01  ADMINISTRATION.
   The designated official of the town shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.  The designated official shall
be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town,
and on property owned by the town.  The designated official shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicles located on private property.  The town may,
on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing
businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws.  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(1983 Code, § 9-31)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.   As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL.   The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Clerk, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles
under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.   As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE  or VEHICLE.   All machines designated or intended to travel
over land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE.   A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds, or other noxious vegetation, over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board.
(1983 Code, § 9-32)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.03  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(1983 Code, § 9-33)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the town official may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle, as defined above,
and order the vehicle removed.
(1983 Code, § 9-34)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property.  Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)    Upon investigation, the town official may order the removal of a
junked motor vehicle, as defined in §
92.02, after finding, in writing, that the aesthetic benefits of removing the
vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner.  The
finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood, or area appearance.  The following, among other
relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
(1983 Code, § 9-35)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE, OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
92.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle.  In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located, can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail.  The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed.  If the names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given, by affixing on the windshield
or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle, indicating that the vehicle
will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed).  The notice shall state that the vehicle will be
removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle, or, in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle, outweigh the burdens, the appeal
shall be made to the Town Board in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Town Board; and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(1983 Code, § 9-36)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.07  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.  The findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on streets.  For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Board hereby determines that immediate removal
of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no stopping or no standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles.  With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property, other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety, and welfare.  By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(1983 Code, § 9-37)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.08  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the
services for the town.  Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town
officials shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, with notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived, in writing, by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours.  If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall
be given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the
vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has not valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(1983 Code, § 9-38)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.09  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle.  A request for hearing must be filed, in writing, with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive the hearing
requests.  The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of
the request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. § 20-222, as amended.
(1983 Code, § 9-39)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.10  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this chapter.
(1983 Code, § 9-40)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with
the town and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(1983 Code, § 9-41)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.  In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant, or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Clerk.  The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense, or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(1983 Code, § 9-42)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.13  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle, as provided in
this chapter.
(1983 Code, § 9-43)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.14  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which:
   (A)   Is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as defined
in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§ 136-141
et seq.;
   (B)   Is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner, if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Is an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town. (1983 Code, § 9-44)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 92.15  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code, unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(1983 Code, § 9-45)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Diving from commercial structures
Group Camp Facilities
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Health regulations
   
93.17   Permit required
   
93.18   Site requirements
   
93.19   Utilities; generally
   
93.20   Facilities required
   
93.21   General sanitation
Charter reference:
   Ordinances with respect to lake, see §
4
Statutory reference:
   Parks and recreation, see G.S. §§ 160A-350 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  DIVING FROM COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMMERCIAL PIER.  A pier used primarily for gain or profit.
   (B)   Prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for any person to dive from a
commercial pier, or any structure connected to a commercial pier, located on or
over the waters of White Lake.
   (C)   Signs.  This section shall be in full force and effect on each
commercial pier when a sign has been duly erected thereon to the effect that it
is unlawful to dive therefrom.
(1983 Code, § 11-1)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1974)  Penalty, see §
10.99
GROUP CAMP FACILITIES
§ 93.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of §§
93.15 et seq., the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUP CAMP FACILITY.
      (1)   Any tract, lot, or parcel of land used, maintained, or intended to
be used, maintained, leased, or rented for occupancy by one or more tents
together with accessory structures provided in connection therewith.
      (2)   This definition shall include land so used whether or not intended
to be so used for profit.
(1983 Code, § 11-13)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)
§ 93.16  HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   In the event the County Board of Health has adopted regulations governing
group camp facilities, the requirements of §§
93.15 et seq. or the requirements of the County Board of Health, whichever are
more stringent, shall govern.
(1983 Code, § 11-14)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)
§ 93.17  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or use any lot
or other parcel of land within the corporate limits for a group camp until
application has been made and a permit therefor has been issued by the Board of
Commissioners.  The Board shall, prior to issuing a permit, determine if all
requirements of §§
93.15 et seq. have been complied with.  A group camp permit may be revoked by
the Board upon a finding of fact that a violation of the requirements of §§
93.15 et seq. exists, provided that the owner, lessee, or other responsible
person is notified, in writing, of the violation and after the expiration of
five days from the date of receipt of the written notice.  It shall be unlawful
for any person to continue to operate the group camp facility after a permit
therefor has been revoked by the Board.
(1983 Code, § 11-15)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18  SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Group camp facilities shall comply with the area, location, and other
dimensional requirements of this section.  Prior to granting a permit for a
group camp facility, the Board of Commissioners may require the owner or
developer to submit a complete plan of the proposed site, showing the location
of the boundaries of the property, proposed access driveways, entrances, off-
street parking spaces, tent space layout, and other information as the Board
may deem necessary in order to determine if all requirements of §§ 93.15 et
seq. and other applicable ordinances are to be met.
   (B)   Site requirements for all group camp facilities shall be as follows.
      (1)   The minimum size lot, tract, or parcel of land to be used for a
group camp facility shall not be less than 10,000 square feet, and the site
shall have an average width of not less than 100 feet.
      (2)   The minimum size tent site area or separate lot to be occupied by
one tent shall be 25 feet by 25 feet, and the site shall be identified by
markers placed at each corner.
      (3)   No tent shall be placed within five feet of its individual tent
site line or lot line, as established in division (B)(2) above, or within 12
feet of any other tent side to side or within 12 feet of any other tent end to
end.
      (4)   No tent shall be located within 25 feet of any exterior boundary
line of the group camp facility.
      (5)   One off-street automobile parking space shall be provided on the
site in an approved manner for each separate tent site.  The off-street parking
space shall be set aside in a location convenient to the occupants of the sites
and shall have ingress and egress by means of a public way.  Where parking
areas are provided adjacent to a public street, ingress and egress thereto
shall be made accessible only through driveways or openings not exceeding 25
feet in width at the curbline of the street.
(1983 Code, § 11-16)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19  UTILITIES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Water supply.  An adequate and safe supply of water shall be readily
available at the group camp site.  This requirement shall be deemed to have
been met when an approved connection is made to the town water system.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer.  Each group camp facility shall be required to have a
connection with the town sanitary sewer system in the manner required elsewhere
in §§
93.15 et seq.  Any extension of the sanitary sewer system required to comply
with this requirement shall be made in accordance with the utility extension
ordinances or policies of the town then in effect.
(1983 Code, § 11-17)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.20  FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   Each group camp facility shall provide minimum facilities for tent site
occupants as follows.
   (A)   Bathrooms.  Enclosed bathroom facilities shall be constructed which
have an approved connection to the required on-site water and sanitary sewer
facilities, and the facilities shall be designed in order that two wash basins,
two toilets, and one shower are available for each four tents the park is
designed to accommodate, and separate facilities shall be provided for both men
and women.  The bathroom structure and all plumbing installations shall conform
to the applicable state and town building and plumbing codes.
   (B)   Garbage and trash containers.  One garbage and trash container (22
gallons maximum capacity) shall be provided for each two tent sites. 
Containers shall be placed on racks which are approved by the County Health
Department and the racks shall be located at a point which is readily
accessible for collection.  In lieu of requiring individual garbage and trash
containers for each two tent sites, other approved garbage and trash disposal
facilities may be provided with the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Driveways.  Access driveways shall be constructed within group camp
facilities when tent sites are to be located more than 50 feet from a public
street.  Other approved access driveways may be constructed at the option of
the owner.  All driveways shall be graded to a width of 15 feet for one-way
drives and to a width of 25 feet for two-way drives.  All driveways shall be
kept opened and shall be constructed and maintained in a manner as to be
passable to vehicular traffic under all weather conditions.
(1983 Code, § 11-18)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21  GENERAL SANITATION.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, or his or her authorized agent, to keep
the group camp facility in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition at all
times, and to maintain and keep in good repair all required facilities.  All
wastewater shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer system and under no
circumstances shall the wastes be discharged on the ground or in streams or in
White Lake.
(1983 Code, § 11-19)  (Ord. passed 4-22-1966)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Work on private roads
   
94.02   Use of skateboards and similar devices on certain sidewalks, pedestrian
facilities and municipal property, prohibited
   
94.03   Use of White Lake multi-use path
Rural Addressing System
   
94.15   Adoption of county rural addressing ordinance by town
   
94.16   Purpose and intent
   
94.17   Definitions
   
94.18   Road names
   
94.19   Administration and application
   
94.20   Display of road address numbers
   
94.21   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Private road naming guidelines
   
Appendix B: Bladen County addressing system
Cross-reference:
   Land Usage, see Title XV
Statutory reference:
   Municipal streets, see G.S. §§ 160A-296 et seq.
   Procedure for permanently closing streets and alleys, see G.S. § 160A-299
   Roads and highways, see G.S. Ch. 136
   Special assessments, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.
   Streets and highways in and around municipalities, see G.S. § 136-66.1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  WORK ON PRIVATE ROADS.
   Any work performed by the town on private roads for private persons will be
paid for by the private citizens involved, and the costs will not be absorbed
by the town.
(1983 Code, § 15-1)  (Motion passed 8-25-1967)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02  USE OF SKATEBOARDS AND SIMILAR DEVICES ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS,
PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES AND MUNICIPAL PROPERTY, PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person on skateboards or similar devices shall go upon any
municipal property, sidewalk or roadway, other than a street set aside as a
play street, unless it be while crossing a street at a crosswalk or
intersection.
   (B)   If any person shall violate this section, he or she shall be
responsible for an infraction and shall be subject to the provisions of §
94.99.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2004)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  USE OF WHITE LAKE MULTI-USE PATH.
   (A)   Town property, sidewalk(s) and multi- use path.
      (1)   Self-propelled vehicles such as golf carts, four wheel utility
vehicles or other similar vehicles, mopeds or electric bicycles shall not be
operated on any multi-use path, sidewalk, pedestrian walkway, jogging path or
bicycle path except for official police business or by town personnel while on
town business.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, golf carts shall
not be operated on property owned or leased by the town except with the express
written consent of the Chief of Police and upon the terms and conditions as may
be set forth in such written permission.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing non-tandem
two-wheeled device, designed to transport one person, with a propulsion system
that limits maximum speed of the devices to 15 miles per hour or less and which
are exempt from registration pursuant to G.S. § 20-51(14).
      GOLF CART. A motorized vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on
a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour. The definition is republished here for
convenience only and the definition set out in G.S. § 20-4.01(12b), as amended
from time to time, is controlling for all purposes.
      LOITERING. Remaining on the path for a protracted period of time for non-
recreational purposes.
      LOW SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES. A two- or three-wheeled vehicle with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts (1 h.p.), whose
maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor
while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 miles per
hour.
      MOTORIZED VEHICLES. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every
vehicle designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled
vehicle, which term shall include golf carts, mopeds, four-wheel utility
vehicles, (but not electric standup scooters), and other similar utility
vehicles and electric bicycles except LOW SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES and ELECTRIC
PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES as herein defined.
      MULTI-USE PEDESTRIAN PATH (“PATH”). An asphalt path, with adjoining
bridges, that is approximately ten feet in width, situated adjacent to NC Hwy
53 and US Hwy 701 but not contiguous with the roadway, that was constructed for
the use of pedestrians, bicyclists, electric personal assistive mobility
devices, and other non-motorized vehicles.
      OPERATE. To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart or other
motorized vehicle as herein defined that is moving or has its key inserted and
in the on position.
      TOWN. Means the Town of White Lake.
   (C)   Hours of operation. The multi-use path shall remain open from dawn
until dusk. Any use after dusk and before dawn shall be at the risk of the
individual using the multi-use path.
   (D)   Safety. Any child under the age of 16 riding a bicycle on the multi-
use path shall wear a helmet as required by G.S. § 20-171.
   (E)   Pets.
      (1)   Pets other than dogs and cats are prohibited on the multi-use path.
      (2)   Dogs and cats traveling on the path shall be supervised at all
times by their owner and shall be the sole responsibility of their owner.
      (3)   Dogs and cats shall be on a leash no longer than six feet in
length.
      (4)   The owner of any dog or cat traveling on the path shall be
responsible for bagging and removing any waste caused by the dog or cat.
   (F)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   Firearms and other weapons are prohibited on the multi-use path
except that those with a proper permit may possess a concealed handgun under
the requirements of G.S. § 14-415.11.
      (2)   Domesticated animals other than cats and dogs are prohibited on the
multi-use path.
      (3)   (a)   No motorized vehicles shall be operated on the multi-use path
with the exception of motorized wheelchairs, low speed electric bicycles,
electric standup scooters, electric personal assistive mobility devices and
other small recreational devices designed for and operated by handicapped
persons. A motorized vehicle shall be defined as set forth in division (B)
above, excepting devices moved by human power.
         (b)   Specific examples of motorized vehicles which shall not be
allowed on the multi-use path include, but are not limited to, the following:
all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), four-wheelers, three-wheelers, utility task
vehicles (UTVs) side-by- sides (SxS), extreme terrain vehicles (XTVs), golf
carts, tractors, lawnmowers, motorcycles, cars, trucks, farm equipment, grading
equipment, landscaping equipment, or any other device or vehicle which could
pose a danger to the safety of other lawful users of the path. This subdivision
shall not apply to any town maintenance vehicles which are being used or
operated upon the multi-use path for the purpose of maintenance or
construction, nor shall it apply to any independent contractor in the course
and scope of the contract on behalf of the town pertaining to the maintenance
and construction of the multi-use path.
      (4)   No loitering shall be allowed on the path.
      (5)   The posting of signs along the path shall be prohibited without
express permission of the town. Examples of items which shall not be allowed on
the path include, but are not limited to, the following: commercial signs,
political signs, yard sale signs, or any other unapproved signage.
      (6)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages on the path is prohibited.
   (G)   Liability disclaimer. This division is adopted to address the interest
of public safety. All persons who use the multi-use path do so at their own
risk and peril, and must be observant of and attentive to the safety of
themselves and others. The town has no liability and assumes no liability and
shall not be liable for accidents, injuries, or death while using the multi-
use path.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 7-9-2019)
RURAL ADDRESSING SYSTEM
§ 94.15 ADOPTION OF COUNTY RURAL ADDRESSING ORDINANCE BY TOWN.
   The Town of White Lake adopts the Bladen County Rural Addressing Ordinance.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of county ordinances within town, see G.S. § 153A-122
§ 94.16  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to provide a uniform system of
rural addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the county in order
to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response
services and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for
public service agencies and the general public.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 94.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS ADMINISTRATOR.   The official of Bladen County designated by the
County Manager, charged with the administration of this subchapter, including
their authorized agent or delegate.
   BUILDING.   Any structure whether residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional in nature and use.  When a structure is divided by division walls
from the ground up without openings, each portion of such building may be
deemed a separate building.
   CAMPGROUND.   See Mobile Home Park.
   DRIVEWAY.   A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting
a public or private road or other easement. A driveway may not serve more than
a single lot unless it runs along a lot line shared by two lots and serves nor
more than two lots which face a named road.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.   Means and includes a site, lot, tract, or parcel of land
upon which one or more mobile home/manufactured homes or travel trailer is
parked, for the temporary or permanent use as living quarters or one or more
families.
   PRIVATE ROAD.   Any road which serves two or more buildings and is not
maintained by a governmental entity or agency through the use of public funds.
   PUBLIC ROAD.   Any road or street which is maintained by a governmental
entity or agency through the use of public funds
   ROAD ADDRESS.   The combination of numbers and road name assigned by Bladen
County which uniquely identifies a particular building or lot.
   SUBDIVISION.   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and includes all division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or change in existing streets as
outlined in G.S. § 153A-335.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 94.18 ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   The road names on file with the Office of Emergency Services are the
official names of these roads, unless changed by action of the Bladen County
Board of Commissioners.  The Address Administrator is hereby authorized to
determine the need for road name changes and to recommend such changes to the
Bladen County Board of Commissioners.  Unless there is a substantial
documentable need for a change in an official road name, no changes will be
made for a period of five years following the date of adoption of this
ordinance.
   (B)   All roads in Bladen County shall be identified by a sign showing the
official name of that road.
   (C)   Road name signs shall be uniform throughout the County in accordance
with the following system:
      (1)   White with green background - Public roads;
      (2)   White with blue background - Private roads;
      (3)   White with brown background - Recreational and historical areas.
   (D)   All roads which meet the criteria for a private road shall be named
using the procedures listed in Appendix A.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 94.19 ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Address Administrator will be responsible for the interpretation
and administration of this subchapter, including:
      (1)   Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings;
      (2)   Maintaining address records of each property and building;
      (3)   Recommending any changes necessary to facilitate sequential
building numbers along a road;
      (4)   Designating individual unit addresses within any multiple housing
units in conformity with this subchapter.
   (B)   Road address numbers will be assigned using the Bladen County
Addressing System listed in Appendix B.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply in all areas of Bladen County not within a
municipality.
   (D)   Assisting the public in complying with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (E)   No subdivision, mobile home park, campground, other non permanent
dwelling unit park, may be recorded, constructed, or otherwise being without
first submitting plans showing layout of any proposed subdivisions, mobile home
park, campground, or other non permanent dwelling park to the Address
Administrator. The Address Administrator will review the plans to insure
adequate access to and from the proposed subdivision, or park and will assign
address numbers for each proposed lot and insure that other provisions of this
subchapter are complied with.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 94.20 DISPLAY OF ROAD ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Road address numbers must be clearly displayed so that the location
can be easily identified from the road.
      (1)   The official address number must be displayed on the front of a
building or at the entrance to a building which is most clearly visible from
the road during both day and night.
      (2)   If a building is more than 75 feet from any road, the address
number shall be displayed at the end of the driveway nearest the road which
provides access to the building.
      (3)   Numerals indicting the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least three inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the road.
      (4)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and non residential buildings
shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road.
      (5)   Numerals shall be of a contrasting color to the background.
      (6)   Mobile home and other non-permanent  dwelling unit lots shall have
sequential address numbers throughout the park.  Each lot will have a separate
address number assigned.  The address number of each lot must be clearly
displayed on the lot so as to be legible from the orad rather than maintained
on the mobile home unit.
   (B)   The Address Administrator will have the authority to authorize and
approve alternate methods of displaying road address numbers which meet the
intent of this subchapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot be
met.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 94.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued until an official road address
number has been assigned for a lot.  The record plat of any subdivision must
show the address for each lot created or recorded.  As required by §
94.19, division (E).
   (B)   No certificate of completion or certificate of occupancy will be
issued by the Building Inspection Department until the road address numbers are
properly displayed.
   (C)   No person may display or cause to be displayed on any building any
number other than the number assigned by the Address Administrator.
   (D)   No person may remove, obliterate, conceal, or destroy any number or
sign displayed in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Owners or occupants of building already constructed which do not
comply with this subchapter will be notified and requested to meet these
requirements within 30 days from the date of notification.  A warning notice
will be issued after 30 days if the requirements have not been met.  If the
owner or occupant does not comply voluntarily with this subchapter within 30
days of the delivery of a warning notice be certified mail or hand delivery to
the building in violation, enforcement action pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123 may
be initiated.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate §
94.02, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be required
to pay a maximum fine of $100.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2004)
APPENDIX A: PRIVATE ROAD NAMING GUIDELINES
   As a part of Bladen County’s comprehensive Emergency E9-1-
1 Telecommunications System all private roads will need to be identified and
addressed.
   In order to have a systematic process to facilitate the private road naming,
the following guidelines are to be followed:
   1.   A private road shall be defined as any road, lane, drive and the like
which serves two or more structures (other than farm storage building) not
facing any state maintained road or highway.
   2.   That the property owners submit three proposed names for their private
road, in the form of a petition. The petition will indicate location of the
road, contact person, telephone number, and the like.
   3.   That the petition must indicate the number of property owners on the
private road in question, and that a majority of the property owners must be in
agreement with the proposal.
   4.   That these petitions be examined and compared with the existing road
names to ensure that no road names are duplicated.
   5.   Every effort will be made to name the road by one of the three proposed
names, but in the event that all of the proposals are already being used, the
contact person will be notified and other proposed names requested.
   6.   Once the name has been approved by Emergency Services (not duplicated)
the petition with the proposed names will be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners for formal approval.
   7.   Once the road name is approved the county will notify the contact
person of the total cost of the sign(s), of which the property owner(s) will be
required to pay one-half of the total cost.
   8.   The county will order and have the sign installed.
   9.   The signs for private roads will have six-inch blades, blue background
with white reflective letters installed on standard SY Aluminum poles.
   10.   The monies collected from the property owner(s) will be used to help
pay for these signs and will be transferred to the appropriate line item.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
APPENDIX B: BLADEN COUNTY ADDRESSING SYSTEM
   Bladen County uses and equal interval system in its approach to assign road
address numbers to buildings within the county.  This requires the selection of
two intersecting baselines, one running in an East-West direction and one
running in a North-South direction.  A frontage interval of 28 feet is then
used to assign a progression of road address numbers to buildings and
properties, working out from these lines in any direction along a continuous
road with this system a road address will easily convert to distance from the
beginning point, (such as 1600 equals 1.6 miles).
   The base lines selected for Bladen County are the Highways US 701 North and
South and NC 87 East and West.  These lines intersect at nearly the center of
the county which is designated as the base point.  All road address numbers
will begin at the end of road closest to the nearest base line and the base
point; or in case of a dead end road at its intersection with another named
road.  For continuous roads which cross a base line, they will be addressed
with respect to East-West or North-South of that base line.
   All buildings will be addressed relative to their position on a named road. 
Houses which are obviously facing a named road will be addressed with the
number which falls closes to the front door of that building.  Buildings which
are situated more than 75 feet off a named road will be addressed where their
driveway intersects the named road.
   Road address numbers will be assigned every 52.8 feet from the beginning
point on that particular road.  Numbers will be assigned with even numbers on
the right side of the road, odd numbers on the left side of the road, as on
would stand with their back toward the beginning point.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
CHAPTER 95: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Permit; generally
   
95.03   Prohibited acts
   
95.04   Revocation of permit
   
95.05   Interference
   
95.06   Picketing
   
95.07   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK.   The portion of any street lying between its intersections with
other streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION.   Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to
the assembly.
   PARADE.   Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or procession of
any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other
public grounds or places.
   PICKET LINE.   Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of persons.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)
§ 95.02  PERMIT; GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct, or
participate in any parade, picket line, or group demonstration in or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the town, unless a permit
therefor has been issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.  The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is authorized to issue
permits as required in this chapter, and in the issuance thereof he or she
shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of the parade, picket line, or group demonstration.  The
application shall be on a form prescribed by the Chief, shall require the
application to be signed by the applicant or applicants, shall require that the
applicant show the proposed time, place, purpose, and size of the parade,
picket line, or group demonstration and whether or not any minors below the age
of 18 years shall participate;
      (2)   Refuse to issue the permit when the activity or purpose stated in
the application would violate any ordinance of the town or statute of the
state, or when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and present
danger to the public health or safety or would hinder or prevent the orderly
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, alleys, or
sidewalks;
      (3)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18
years will be permitted to participate.  The Chief shall pass upon whether or
not minors may participate, and shall base his or her determination upon
whether or not the purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be
detrimental to or endanger the health, safety, or welfare of minors, or will
interfere with their education;
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity.  The
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group
demonstration and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time.  The
permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person; and
      (5)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following.
         (a)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from
other necessary duties.
         (b)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their
property.
         (c)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, will not prevent
normal police and fire protection to the public, and will not be likely to
cause injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to
create a public disturbance.
   (B)   The permit may set the starting time, duration, speed of travel, and
space between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line, or group
demonstration; may prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or other public places to be used; and may impose other reasonable
requirements as the Chief may prescribe for the control and free movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or for the health, safety, and property rights
of the participants and the general public.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with, or as a part of, any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks, or
flashlights, which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line, or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of this chapter; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)
§ 95.05  INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under the authority of a
permit duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06  PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided the words used are not derogatory or defamatory in
nature.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.  Pickets shall not be
allowed to walk more than five feet from the curbline and shall be in
continuous motion.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and the rise would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to or from school classes, or participating in an
educational or recreational activity where the activity is under the
supervision and direction of proper school authorities; and
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1983 Code, § 10-4)
CHAPTER 96:  NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Weed Abatement
   
96.01   Provisions cumulative
   
96.02   Nuisance declared
   
96.03   Investigation
   
96.04   Notice to owner; hearing
   
96.05   Order to abate
   
96.06   Abatement by town; generally
   
96.07   Abatement by town; costs charged to owner
   
96.08   Abatement by town; lien
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of health and safety nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
   Plant pests as nuisance, see G.S. § 106-421
   Protection of public health, see G.S. § 160A-174
WEED ABATEMENT
§ 96.01  PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person violating the provisions of this chapter, as
provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(1983 Code, § 10-17)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.02  NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height of eight
inches or more, causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety, or within 100 feet of any principal structure or
public right-of-way;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors, or by the inhabitation therein of rats, mice,
snakes, or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health;
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish, or similar items; or
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
(1983 Code, § 10-18)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
   29
30   White Lake - General Regulations
§ 96.03  INVESTIGATION.
   The Town Clerk, upon notice from any person of the possible existence of any
of the conditions described in §
96.02, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official, or town official, the investigation as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance, as declared in
§
96.02.
(1983 Code, § 10-19)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.04  NOTICE TO OWNER; HEARING.
   If it appears that the conditions exist, the Town Clerk shall cause to be
delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the conditions
exist a notice stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute a
violation, and that a hearing will be held before the Town Clerk at a place
therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the delivery or
mailing of the notice.  The owner, or any party in interest, shall have the
right to file an answer to the notice and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and give evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice.  Any person
desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the
matter being heard.  The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in these hearings.
(1983 Code, § 10-20)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.05  ORDER TO ABATE.
   If a determination is made that the conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Clerk shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
premises in question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance, and
shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of the
written notice.
(1983 Code, § 10-21)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.06  ABATEMENT BY TOWN; GENERALLY.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate the public nuisance, fails,
neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 15 days from receipt of the order, the Town Clerk shall cause the
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
to go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance, under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town Clerk.  Any person
who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within the time allowed by
this chapter, request the town, in writing, to remove the condition, the cost
of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(1983 Code, § 10-22)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.07  ABATEMENT BY TOWN; COSTS CHARGED TO OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and
it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of the charges to
the owner, or other person in possession of the premises, with instructions
that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
(1983 Code, § 10-23)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
§ 96.08  ABATEMENT BY TOWN; LIEN.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges, as
provided for in §
96.07, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(1983 Code, § 10-24)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1989)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL OPERATING AND LICENSING PROCEDURES
   
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
112.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL OPERATING AND LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
Hours of Operation
   
110.01   Business open 24 hours
   
110.02   Other business hours
Privilege License Taxes
   
110.33   Internet sweepstakes cafe/computer gaming establishments
Charter reference:
   Bingo, see §
10
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Ch. 34
   Wine licenses, see §
111.01
Statutory reference:
   Business licenses and regulation, see G.S. § 160A-194
   Privilege license taxes, see G.S. § 160A-211
   Tax collection, see G.S. §§ 105-349 et seq.
   Taxation, see G.S. Ch. 105
HOURS OF OPERATION
§ 110.01  BUSINESS OPEN 24 HOURS.
   Hotels, motels, restaurants, businesses selling gasoline and oil products,
and groceries may remain open 24 hours per day.
(1983 Code, § 8-1)  (Ord. passed 8-5-1969; Am. Res. passed 5-7-1981; Am. Ord.
passed 12-8-1992)
§ 110.02  OTHER BUSINESS HOURS.
   Except as provided in §
110.01, businesses within the corporate limits of the town may operate only
during the following times:
   (A)   April 1 through September 15:  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and
   (B)   September 16 through March 31:  6:00 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.
(1983 Code, § 8-2)  (Motion passed 7-5-1976; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-1992) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES
§ 110.33  INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES CAFE/COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPUTER.   Any electronic machine connected to an internet server,
including a computer, used as a game promotion or for amusement subject to the
provisions of this section.
      INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES CAFÉ/ COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENT .  Any business
enterprise utilizing one or more computers connected to an internet server as
game promotions or for amusement.  In a game promotion, a person may conduct a
game of chance in connection with the sale of consumer products or services
and/or for which the elements of chance and prize are present.  This term
includes, but is not limited to, internet sweepstakes, internet cafés, and
cybercafés.  This definition only applies where a machine emits, issues,
displays, prints out or otherwise records any receipt, paper, coupon, token or
other form of record which is capable of being redeemed, exchanged, or
repurchased for cash, cash equivalent, prizes, services or any other item of
value, whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by
electronic games played or by predetermined odds.  This includes a system which
invites patrons to purchase prepaid internet access cards that also allows them
to use computer terminals with gaming software as an ancillary benefit.  This
term does not include any lottery approved by the State of North Carolina.
   (B)   The operator of each internet sweepstakes café/computer gaming
establishment shall provide to the Tax Collector the serial number of each and
every computer in the establishment and shall pay the applicable business
license tax thereon prior to any use of the same. Computers that are removed
from the establishment shall be reported (with applicable serial number) to the
town’s Tax Collector. Any replacement computer (with applicable serial number)
shall likewise be reported to the town’s Tax Collector and the applicable
business license tax thereon paid prior to any use of the same.
   (C)   Town tax rate:  $1,000 per computer gaming establishment together with
$250 for each and every computer at the internet sweepstakes café/computer
gaming establishment whether or not the same may be connected to or connectable
to the internet either by landline or wireless connection for each fiscal year
or any part thereof.
   (D)   This tax does not apply to any game or process prohibited by G.S. §§
14-304 through 14-309; provided, however, once the tax is paid, determination
that the game or process for which the tax was paid was or is prohibited by
G.S. §§ 14-304 through 14-309 shall not entitle the establishment to a refund
of the tax paid, and the tax paid shall be forfeited.
   (E)   Establishments legally operating with appropriate business license at
the time of the adoption of this ordinance shall be required to pay the
applicable business license tax for internet sweepstakes café/computer gaming
establishments for the current fiscal year and shall be required to pay the tax
in full for each fiscal year July 1, through June 30 thereafter. 
(Ord. passed 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Wine licenses
   
111.02   Drinking or displaying in public places
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see G.S. Ch. 18B
§ 111.01  WINE LICENSES.
   (A)   Each person holding any of the following permits issued by the North
Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission for an establishment located
within the town must secure from the town a town license for that activity,
with the annual fee for each license determined by the Board of Commissioners
from time to time:
      (1)   On-premises unfortified wine; and/or
      (2)   Off-premises unfortified wine.
   (B)   The annual license fee stated in division (A) above is the fee for the
first license issued to a person.  The fee for each additional license issued
to that person for the same year is 10% of the base license fee; that increase
to apply progressively for each additional license.
(1983 Code, § 3-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 105-113.79
§ 111.02  DRINKING OR DISPLAYING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except where otherwise provided by law, no person shall display, consume,
serve, or drink wine, beer, whiskey, or alcoholic beverages of any kind in the
public streets, boulevards, beaches, alleys, parks, sidewalks, public
buildings, or other public places within the town.
(1983 Code, § 3-2)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1972)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Consumption of beer and wine on town property, see G.S. § 18B-300(c)
CHAPTER 112:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Liability insurance
   
112.04   Zoning permit
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
§ 112.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER.   Any place of business that exhibits, displays, or
operates six or more coin-operated amusement games.
(1983 Code, § 4-1)
§ 112.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the corporate limits
any amusement center, or any riding device or group of riding devices, whether
or not operated for profit, without first having secured a permit from the Town
Clerk to engage in the operation.
(1983 Code, § 4-2)  (Res. passed 5-26-1961; Am. Ord. passed 3-25-1966) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No person shall be issued a permit under §
112.02 until he or she has first produced, to the satisfaction of the Town
Clerk, evidence that the operation for which the permit is being requested is
covered by a public liability insurance policy or policies, or, in lieu
thereof, deposits of cash or approved securities or surety bond with sureties,
who are residents of North Carolina or duly authorized to transact business
therein, whose solvency shall at all times be subject to the approval of the
Town Board, in the amounts of not less than $25,000 for bodily injury or death
of one person in case of one occurrence and not less than $50,000 for bodily
injury or death of more than one person in case of one occurrence, and
conditioned upon the owner or any agent of the owner responding in damages for
any liability incurred on account of bodily injury or death to persons
resulting from the negligent maintenance or operation of any amusement center
or any riding devices.
(1983 Code, § 4-3)  (Res. passed 5-26-1961; Am. Ord. passed 3-25-1966; Am. Res.
passed 7-6-1967; Am. Res. passed 4-25-1969)
§ 112.04  ZONING PERMIT.
   A business license or a permit under this chapter shall be granted only upon
approval of, and in accordance with, the conditions of a permit issued under
the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(1983 Code, § 4-5)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Noise
   
130.01   Generally
   
130.02   Definition
   
130.03   Enumeration
   
130.04   Presumption in prosecution for noise violation
Firearms
   
130.15   Discharge of firearms
Fire Bombs
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Provisions cumulative
   
130.32   Materials for manufacture
   
130.33   General prohibition
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Ch. 111
   Police, see
Ch. 32
Statutory reference:
   Criminal law, see G.S. Ch. 14
   General welfare power of town, see G.S. § 160A-174
   Municipal regulation of explosive and inflammable substances, see G.S. §
160A-183
NOISE
§ 130.01  GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating, permit,
continue, or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, annoying,
frightening, loud and disturbing, or unnecessary noise.  Noise of the
character, intensity, and duration as to be detrimental to the public health,
welfare, peace, and dignity is hereby prohibited.
(1983 Code, § 10-1)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965; Am. Res. passed 6-13-1989) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 130.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of §§
130.01 et seq., the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNNECESSARY NOISE.   Any excessive or unusually loud sound, or any sound
which disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or which does annoy,
disturb, injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of
any person or causes damage to property or to business.
(1983 Code, § 10-1.1)  (Res. passed 6-13-1989)
§ 130.03  ENUMERATION.
   The following acts are specifically declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of §§
130.01 et seq., but the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire, or other emergency vehicles;
   (B)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal or, if in motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being
applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of
any signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sounds; and the sounding of
a device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (C)   The owning, keeping and having in possession, or harboring any animal
or bird which, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise,
shall cause loud noises and produce serious annoyance or disturbance to any
person or to the neighborhood;
   (D)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
on Sundays;
   (E)   The using or operating on or over any street or road within the town,
or on or over the waters of White Lake, of any radio, phonograph, or other
similar mechanical device to produce sound, or any mechanical loudspeaker or
other sound-magnifying device on any motor vehicle, airplane, or other
conveyance or stand, for advertising or other purposes, at a power output level
of volume greater than ten watts or 32 decibels; and any operation shall be
unlawful unless the loudspeaker or other mechanical sound-magnifying device
shall be equipped with a meter by which the power output can be registered and
determined so that the volume may be limited in accordance with the
restrictions hereinbefore specified;
   (F)   The using or operating within or over the town any mechanical
loudspeaker for advertising or other purposes, at a power output level of
volume greater than ten watts or 32 decibels; and any operation shall be
unlawful unless the loudspeaker shall be equipped with a meter by which the
power output can be registered and determined so that the volume may be limited
in accordance with the restrictions hereinbefore specified;
   (G)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, or other musical instrument in a
manner or with volume so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of any person in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence;
   (H)   The creation of excessive noise by the operation of an airplane over
the town by stunting, diving, or otherwise operating airplanes for the purpose
of advertising or otherwise;
   (I)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in a manner so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (J)   The discharging of firecrackers or any other explosives in the streets
or elsewhere for the purpose of making noise or disturbance; and/or
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, on any of the public streets,
boulevards, beaches, alleys, parks, sidewalks, public buildings, or other
public places within the town, and in the hearing of two or more persons, in a
loud and boisterous manner, use indecent or profane language.
(1983 Code, § 10-2)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965; Am. Ord. passed 7-7-1970; Am. Res.
passed 6-13-1989)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  PRESUMPTION IN PROSECUTION FOR NOISE VIOLATION.
   The complaints of two or more persons, at least one of whom resides in a
different home from the other complaining person or persons, or the complaint
of one or more persons, when combined with the complaint of a duly authorized
investigating person, shall be prima facie evidence that the sound is a loud
and annoying, frightening, loud and disturbing, unreasonably loud, or
unnecessary noise.
(1983 Code, § 10-2.1)  (Res. passed 6-13-1989)
FIREARMS
§ 130.15  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall discharge firearms of any kind within the corporate limits
of the town, except when used in defense of person or property or pursuant to
lawful directions of law enforcement officers.
(1983 Code, § 10-3)  (Res. passed 10-23-1959; Am. Ord. passed 2-26-1965) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of weapons, see §§ 160A-183 and 160A-189
FIRE BOMBS
§ 130.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
130.30 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE BOMB.   Any type of object designed or constructed so that, upon being
propelled, it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
   MOLOTOV COCKTAIL.  Any breakable container or any container which is
designed in a manner that, upon being propelled, it will, at impact, empty its
contents, which is filled with a flammable fluid or substance and which is
fitted with a fuse or wick.
(1983 Code, § 10-35)  (Ord. passed 4-26-1968)
§ 130.31  PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of §§
130.30 et seq. shall be cumulative and in addition to any other ordinance or
general statute of North Carolina on this subject.
(1983 Code, § 10-36)  (Ord. passed 4-26-1968)
§ 130.32  MATERIALS FOR MANUFACTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess all the items or materials
needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or other fire bombs, other than on his
or her premises.
(1983 Code, § 10-37)  (Ord. passed 4-26-1968)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.33  GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, possess, transport, or
use any Molotov cocktail or other fire bomb.
(1983 Code, § 10-38)  (Ord. passed 4-26-1968)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
130.03(K) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine that
may be greater than $50 but not exceeding $500 or imprisoned for not more than
30 days.
(1983 Code, § 10-2)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965; Am. Ord. passed 7-7-1970; Am. Res.
passed 6-13-1989)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
151.   BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
150.01   Planning Board; creation
   
150.02   Membership; attendance; vacancies
   
150.03   Organization; rules; meetings; records
   
150.04   Extraterritorial members
   
150.05   General duties
   
150.06   Basic studies
   
150.07   Comprehensive plans
   
150.08   Zoning amendments
   
150.09   Public facilities
   
150.10   Public hearings; publications
Statutory reference:
   Interlocal cooperation, see G.S. §§ 160A-460 et seq.
PLANNING BOARD
§ 150.01  PLANNING BOARD; CREATION.
   Pursuant to state law, there is hereby created the Planning Board of the
Town of White Lake to perform the functions and duties prescribed in §§
150.01 et seq.
(1983 Code, § 12-11)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.02  MEMBERSHIP; ATTENDANCE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of six members who shall be the same
members selected to perform the duties of the Zoning Board of Adjustment,
pursuant to § 3-1.2  of the White Lake Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of term shall be
filled as they occur for the unexpired remainder of the term.  Faithful
attendance at meetings of the Planning Board is to be considered a prerequisite
to continue membership, and the Town Board may remove and replace any member
continually delinquent in his or her duty to attend.
(1983 Code, § 12-12)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-1985)
§ 150.03  ORGANIZATION; RULES; MEETINGS; RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and create and fill the other
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and other officers
shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection.  The Board shall adopt
rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its
members' attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings, and
recommendations, which record shall be a public record. The Board shall
establish a regular meeting schedule and shall meet frequently enough so that
it can take action in conformity with the review procedures delineated in the
White Lake Zoning Ordinance.  There shall be a quorum of four members for the
purpose of taking any official action.
(1983 Code, § 12-13)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of public bodies, see G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq.
§ 150.04  EXTRATERRITORIAL MEMBERS.
   The three members appointed to the Planning Board by the Board of County
Commissioners as representatives of the extraterritorial zoning area outside
the town shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with the other members
of the Board in all matters pertaining to the regulation of both the
extraterritorial area and the area within the corporate limits.
(1983 Code, § 12-14)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.05  GENERAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general:
   (A)   To make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   To determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   To prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures, and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
   (E)   To advise the Town Board concerning the use and amendment of means for
carrying out plans;
   (F)   To exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Town Board may direct; and
   (G)   To perform any other related duties that the Town Board may direct.
(1983 Code, § 12-15)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.06  BASIC STUDIES.
   (A)   As background for its comprehensive plans and any ordinances it may
prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of manmade
and natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends and
present conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic
base of the community, land use, and other information as is important or
likely to be important in determining the amount, direction, and kind of
development to be expected in the area and its various parts.
   (B)   In addition, the Planning Board may make, cause to be made, or obtain
special studies on the location, condition, and adequacy of special facilities,
which may include, but are not limited to, studies of housing; commercial and
industrial facilities; parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities; public
and private utilities; and traffic, transportation, and parking facilities.
   (C)   All officials of the town shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Board any available records or information as it may require in its work.  The
Board or its agents may, in the performance of its official duties, enter upon
lands and make examination or surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(1983 Code, § 12-16)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.07  COMPREHENSIVE PLANS.
   (A)   The comprehensive plans, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts,
and descriptive matter, shall be and show the Planning Board's recommendations
to the Town Board for the development of the area, including, among other
things, the general location, character, and extent of streets, bridges,
boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields and other
public ways, grounds, and open spaces; the general location and extent of
public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or
operated, for water, power, gas, sanitation, transportation, communication, and
other purposes; and the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating,
abandonment, change of use, or extension of any of the foregoing ways,
buildings, grounds, open spaces, properties, utilities, or terminals.
   (B)   The comprehensive plans and any ordinances or other measures to
effectuate the plans shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the town
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency
and economy in the process of development, including, among other things,
adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other
dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, the wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the
adequate provision of public utilities, services, and other public
requirements.
(1983 Code, § 12-17)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.08  ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning Board may initiate from time to time proposals for amendment of
the zoning ordinance and map, based upon its studies and plans.  In addition,
it shall review and make recommendations to the Town Board concerning all
proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance and map.
(1983 Code, § 12-18)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.09  PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The Planning Board shall review with the town officials and report its
recommendations to the Town Board upon the extent, location, and design of all
public structures and facilities, on the acquisition and disposal of public
properties, on the establishment of building lines, mapped street lines, and on
proposals to change existing street lines.  However, whether or not there is a
recommendation from the Planning Board, the Town Board may, if it deems wise,
take final action on any matter at any time.
(1983 Code, § 12-19)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
§ 150.10  PUBLIC HEARINGS; PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Board may conduct public hearings as may be required to
gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment, and maintenance
of the plans.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in and
an understanding of its recommendations and, to that end, it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
(1983 Code, § 12-20)  (Ord. passed 1-16-1981)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Contractor's duty to obtain zoning permit
   
151.02   Adoption of codes
   
151.03   Inspections by county
   
151.04   County energy conservation ordinance adopted
   
151.05   Moving buildings
   
151.06   Trailers deemed as buildings
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.20   Defects in buildings
   
151.21   Condemned
   
151.22   Removing notice
   
151.23   Failure to take corrective action
   
151.24   Order to take corrective action
   
151.25   Appeal; finality of order if not appealed
   
151.26   Failure to comply with order
Abandoned Structures
   
151.40   Definitions
   
151.41   Scope
   
151.42   Building Official
   
151.43   Standards for enforcement
   
151.44   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.45   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.46   In rem action by Building Official placard
   
151.47   Cost of lien on premises
   
151.48   Alternative remedies
Plumbing
   
151.60   Bond requirement
   
151.61   Revoking of license for wilful violation
   
151.62   Repair work
Statutory reference:
   Approval of local building regulations, see G.S. § 143-138
   State building code and building code council, see G.S. §§ 143-136 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  CONTRACTOR'S DUTY TO OBTAIN ZONING PERMIT.
   Every contractor who undertakes to construct improvements upon real estate
or upon any building in the town limits is required to ensure that the proper
zoning permits are obtained prior to beginning any construction.
(1983 Code, § 6-1)  (Motion passed 4-3-1984)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor's note:
   This section is derived from a motion passed 4-3-1984, not expressly
amendatory of the code.
§ 151.02  ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Pursuant to authority granted by G.S. §§ 143-138(b) and
(e), the codes enumerated in this section governing building regulations and
plumbing and electrical installations are hereby adopted as the minimum
regulations within the corporate limits for the types of buildings described.
         (b)   All buildings hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired,
moved, converted to other uses, or demolished, and all plumbing and electrical
installations, shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
applicable code.
      (2)   (a)   Building codes.
            1.   All buildings, other than one- and two-family dwellings and
temporary buildings, or sheds not exceeding 20 feet in length or width and used
exclusively for construction purposes, shall be regulated by the North Carolina
Building Code, 2002 Edition, including the amendments thereto as may be
prepared and published from time to time by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and approved by the State Commissioner of Insurance.
            2.   One- and two-family dwellings shall be regulated by the North
Carolina Residential Code, 2002 Edition, as found in Volume I-B of the North
Carolina State Building Code, and the amendments thereto as may be published
from time to time by the North Carolina Building Code Council.
         (b)   Plumbing code.  Plumbing installations in all buildings shall be
regulated by the North Carolina Plumbing Code, 2002 Edition, and the amendments
thereto as may be prepared and published from time to time by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and approved by the State Commissioner of
Insurance.
         (c)   Electrical code.  Electrical installations in all buildings
shall be regulated by the North Carolina Electrical Code, 2002 Edition, as
approved by the American Standards Association and as adopted in North Carolina
Building Code, 2002 Edition, and the amendments thereto as may from time to
time be published by the NFPA.
         (d)   Mobile home code.  Mobile homes shall be regulated by the State
of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes, 2004 Edition, as
contained in G.S. §§ 143-143.8 et seq.
(1983 Code, § 6-11)  (Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am. Res. passed 4-20-1962; Am.
Ord. passed 3-2-1971)
   (B)   An official, up-to-date copy of each regulatory code adopted in
division (A) above shall be placed and maintained in the Office of the Town
Clerk.
(1983 Code, § 6-12) (Am. Ord. passed 2-26-1965)
§ 151.03  INSPECTIONS BY COUNTY.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall be authorized to direct one or more
county building inspectors to exercise their powers within all of the town's
jurisdiction.
(1983 Code, § 6-13)  (Motion passed 1-1-1979)
§ 151.04  COUNTY ENERGY CONSERVATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The ordinance attached to the resolution from which this section is
derived, entitled Energy Conservation Standards Ordinance, Bladen County, North
Carolina, by reference made a part thereof, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   The County Inspection Department may inspect insulation installed in
all structures within the town.
(1983 Code, § 6-14)  (Res. passed 12-5-1977; Am. Res. passed 11-6-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of county ordinances within town, see G.S. § 153A-122
§ 151.05  MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A building or mobile home moved into the town's zoning jurisdiction
shall be made to conform to the existing building, plumbing, electrical, or
mobile home codes of the town within 12 months from either:
      (1)   The date of passage of this section; or
      (2)   If moved subsequent to the date of this section, the earlier of
either the date of receipt of a zoning permit or the date the building or
mobile home is moved into the town's zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Any person moving a building or mobile home as described in
division (A) above shall pay a moving permit fee.
      (2)   The amount of this fee shall be set from time to time by the Town
Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   It shall be in lieu of a building permit fee, but in addition to
any zoning permit fee.
(1983 Code, § 6-15)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1984; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-1987) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06  TRAILERS DEEMED AS BUILDINGS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a trailer house or mobile home parked on
any lot within the corporate limits of the town, which is not parked in a lot
designed and operated for the parking of mobile homes and house trailers, shall
be deemed to be a building and this chapter shall apply thereto.
(1983 Code, § 6-16)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965; Am. Res. passed 4-23-1965)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.20  DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS.
   Whenever the inspector finds any defects in any new building, or finds that
the building is not being constructed or has not been constructed in accordance
with the provisions of §§
151.20 et seq., or that an old building, because of its condition, is dangerous
or likely to cause a fire, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner of
the building of the defects or the failure to comply with §§
151.20 et seq., and the owner or builder shall immediately remedy the defect
and make the building comply herewith.
(1983 Code, § 6-28)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21  CONDEMNED.
   (A)   Every building which shall appear to the local inspector to be
especially dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad
condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes shall be
held to be unsafe, and the inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous
character of the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the
building.
   (B)   No building now or hereafter built shall be altered, repaired, or
moved until it has been examined and approved by the inspector as being in a
good and safe condition to be altered as proposed, and the alteration, repair,
or change so made shall conform to the provisions of the law.
(1983 Code, § 6-29)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.22  REMOVING NOTICE.
   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any building
or structure by a local inspector that states the dangerous character of the
building or structure, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1983 Code, § 6-30)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.23  FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to §
151.21 shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the local inspector shall
give him or her written notice, by certified or registered mail, to his or her
last known address or by personal service that:
      (1)   The building or structure is in a condition that appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health, or other
property;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the inspector at a designated place
and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which time
the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present
arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the inspector may issue the order to repair,
close, vacate, or demolish the building or structure as appears appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question
at least ten days prior to the hearing, and a notice of the hearing is
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once
not later than one week prior to the hearing.
(1983 Code, § 6-31)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to take corrective action, see G.S. § 160A-428
§ 151.24  ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in §
151.23, the inspector shall find that the building or structure is in a
condition that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to
life, health, or other property, he or she shall make an order, in writing,
directed to the owner of the building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating, or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within the period,
not less than 60 days, as the inspector may prescribe; provided that where the
inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or
she may order that corrective action be taken in a lesser period as may be
feasible.
(1983 Code, § 6-32)
§ 151.25  APPEAL; FINALITY OF ORDER IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
151.24 may appeal from the order to the Board by giving notice of appeal, in
writing, to the inspector and to the Town Clerk within ten days following
issuance of the order.  In the absence of an appeal, the order of the inspector
shall be final.  The Board shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and
may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
(1983 Code, § 6-33)  (Ord. passed 2-16-1965)
§ 151.26  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to §
151.24 from which no appeal has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of
the Board following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1983 Code, § 6-34)  (Ord. passed 2-26-1965)
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 151.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
151.40 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED.   As applied to a building, shall mean unoccupied by persons for
the purpose in which the building was intended to be used.
   BUILDING.   Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind which has enclosing walls
for 50% of its perimeter.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.   The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this code, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   OWNER.   The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST.   All individuals, associates, and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling or structure and any who are in
possession thereof.
   STRUCTURE.   That which is built or constructed.
(1983 Code, § 6-35)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.41  SCOPE.
   The provisions of §§
151.40 et seq. shall apply to every type of building, including any
appurtenances attached thereto, wherever it might be situated in the corporate
limits.
(1983 Code, § 6-36)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.42  BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Duties.  The Building Official shall be appointed by the Town Board
and is hereby designated to enforce the provisions of §§
151.40 et seq.  It shall be the duty of the Building Official:
      (1)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of §§
151.40 et seq.;
      (2)   To take the actions pursuant to §§
151.40 et seq. as may be necessary to provide for the repair, closing, or
demolition of the structures;
      (3)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of §§
151.40 et seq.; and
      (4)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned to
him or her by the Town Board.
(1983 Code, § 6-37)
   (B)   Powers.  The Building Official is authorized to exercise the powers as
may be necessary to carry out the intent and provisions of §§
151.40 et seq., including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
      (1)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order
to determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of §§
151.40 et seq.;
      (2)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (3)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence; and
      (4)   To designate other officers, agents, and employees of the town as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of §§
151.40 et seq.
(1983 Code, § 6-38) (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.43  STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of §§
151.40 et seq. whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of §§
151.40 et seq., the Building Official may, by way of illustration and not
limitation, consider the presence or absence of the following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure's floors, walls, ceilings, or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents;
      (3)   Violations of the North Carolina Building Code, 2002 Edition, the
North Carolina Electrical Code, 2002 Edition, or the North Carolina Fire
Prevention Code, 2002 Edition, which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish, or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure on nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the North Carolina Building Code, 2002 Edition, which
might result in danger to children using the structure or nearby grounds or
facilities as a play area; and
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants in the
absence of sanitary facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
(1983 Code, § 6-39)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.44  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.  Whenever a petition is
filed with the Building Official by at least five residents of the town
charging that any structure exists in violation hereof, or whenever it appears
to the Building Official upon inspection that any structure exists in violation
hereof, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in the structure a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Building Official at
a place therein fixed, not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint.  The owner or any party in interest shall have the
right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.  Notice of the
hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition
relating to the structure.  Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing
and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard.  The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Building Official.
   (B)   Procedures after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Building Official shall state, in
writing, his or her determination whether the structure violates §§
151.40 et seq.
      (2)   If the Building Official determines that the structure is in
violation, he or she shall state, in writing, his or her finding of fact to
support the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to either repair,
alter, and improve the structure or else remove or demolish the same within a
specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In persona remedy.  If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Building Official within the time specified
therein, the Building Official may submit to the Town Board, at its next
regular meeting, a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the
superior court for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the
Building Official, as authorized by state law.
      (2)   In rem remedy.  After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Building Official within the time specified therein, if
injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in
division (C)(1) above, the Building Official shall submit to the Town Board an
ordinance ordering the Building Official to cause the structure to be removed
or demolished, as provided in the original order to the Building Official, and,
pending the removal or demolition, to placard the structure, as provided by
state law.
   (D)   Petition to superior court by owner.  Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Building Official shall have the right, within 30 days after
issuance of the order, to petition the superior court for a temporary
injunction restraining the Building Official, pending a final disposition of
the cause, as provided by state law.
(1983 Code, § 6-40)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.45  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Building Official shall be served
upon persons either personally or by certified or registered mail, but if the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Building Official in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Building
Official shall make an affidavit to that effect, and serving of the complaint
or order upon the person may be made by publication in a newspaper having
general circulation in the town at least once, no later than the time at which
personal service is required under §
151.43.
   (B)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(1983 Code, § 6-41)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.46  IN REM ACTION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL PLACARD.
   (A)   (1)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order
of the Building Official issued pursuant to the provisions of §§
151.40 et seq., and upon adoption by the Town Board of an ordinance authorizing
and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 6-40(c), the Building
Official shall proceed to cause the structure either to be repaired or else
removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Board, and
shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the structure a placard
prohibiting the use or occupation of the structure.
      (2)   Use or occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds of Bladen County, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner
in the grantor index, as provided by state law.
(1983 Code, § 6-42)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.47  COST OF LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by state law, the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Building Official, pursuant to §§
151.40 et seq., shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost
was incurred.  The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced
and the cost collected as provided by G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 160A-238.
(1983 Code, § 6-43)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
§ 151.48  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither §§
151.40 et seq. nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair or limit
in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause
their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce §§ 151.40 et seq.
by criminal process, and the enforcement of any other remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(1983 Code, § 6-44)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)
PLUMBING
§ 151.60  BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Before any person shall engage in the business of master plumber or do or
cause to be done any plumbing work in the town, the person shall furnish an
approved bond in the sum as set by the Board, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of duty in making connections with the sewers of the town, and to
indemnify the town against loss to person or property in any manner whatsoever
for any negligence or unskilled or negligent work or conduct in the
installation of any plumbing or house drainage, or for any damage to the
sewers, sidewalks, or streets of the town or for the use of defective or
improper materials in connection therewith, and the person shall first show
satisfactory evidence that he or she has complied with the provisions of G.S.
§§ 87-16 et seq.
(1983 Code, § 6-46)  (Ord. passed 9-22-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.61  REVOKING OF LICENSE FOR WILFUL VIOLATION.
   The inspector shall promptly condemn and order the removal of any defective
material or work, and the presence of any wilfully hidden defects shall be
sufficient cause for the revocation of the plumber's license.
(1983 Code, § 6-47)  (Ord. passed 9-22-1961)
§ 151.62  REPAIR WORK.
   All plumbing repair work must be done by bonded plumbers or their journeyman
plumbers.
(1983 Code, § 6-48)  (Ord. passed 9-22-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Applicable jurisdiction
   
152.07   Establishment of special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention provisions
   
152.14   Effect on outstanding building permits
   
152.15   Effective date
Administration
   
152.30   Designation of Administrator
   
152.31   Development permit and certification requirements
   
152.32   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator
   
152.33   Administrative procedures
   
152.34   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.45   General standards
   
152.46   Specific standards
   
152.47   Standards for streams without established base flood elevations and/or
floodways
   
152.48   Standards for subdivision proposals and major developments
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has; in G.S. §§ 143-215.51
through 143-215.62; and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8; delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.  Therefore, the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of White Lake, North Carolina, does ordain as
follows.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of White Lake are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
flood plains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in a manner so as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.   Structures which are located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.  Garages, carports, and storage sheds are
common urban accessory structures.  Pole barns, hay sheds, and the like qualify
as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the same
parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING).   An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.  Additions to existing buildings
shall comply with the requirements for new construction, unless the addition,
renovation, or reconstruction to any building, that was constructed prior to
the initial Flood Insurance Study for that area, and the addition, renovation,
or reconstruction does not equal 50% of the present market value of the
structure.  Where a fire wall is provided between the addition and the existing
building, the addition(s) shall be considered a separate building and must
comply with the standards for new construction.
   APPEAL.   A request for a review of the Administrator's interpretation of
any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.   The land in the flood plain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE END.   For flood plain management purposes, any area of the building
having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD.   The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BUILDING.   Any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   DEVELOPMENT.   For flood plain management purposes, any manmade change to
improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or
other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.   For flood plain management purposes, a nonbasement
building which has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by
foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.   For the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the
F.I.R.M., or before 1-1-1975, for F.I.R.M.s effective before that date. 
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION  may also be referred to as existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.   A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed;
including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads; is
completed before 4-8-1997.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.   The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed; including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs.
   FLOOD  or FLOODING.   A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of run-off of surface waters
from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (F.H.B.M.).   An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the
areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (F.I.R.M.).   An official map of a community on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.   The engineering study performed by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to identify flood hazard areas, flood insurance
risk zones, and other flood data in a community.  The study includes Flood
Boundary and Floodway Maps (F.B.F.M.s), Flood Hazard Boundary Maps (F.H.B.M.s),
and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps (F.I.R.M.s).
   FLOODWAY.   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR.   The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction.  The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.   A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities.  The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.   The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.   Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
      (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR.   For flood plain management and flood insurance purposes, the
lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).  An unfinished
or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
building's LOWEST FLOOR,  provided that the enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design
requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.   A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The term
MANUFACTURED HOME  does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.   For purposes of the N.F.I.P., the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (N.G.V.D.) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on a F.I.R.M. are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.   For flood plain management purposes, structures for
which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
this chapter and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.   A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after 4-8-1997.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR USE.   Any legally existing building or use which
fails to comply with the provisions of the chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.   A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION.   To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local flood plain management regulations or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance.  Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.   Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within 180
days of the permit date.  The actual start means the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a
site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles,
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure.  For a substantial improvement, the actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.   For flood plain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other manmade
facility or infrastructure that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. 
See definition of substantial improvement below.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement.  This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. 
The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project of improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. 
Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the
streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   VARIANCE.   A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's flood plain management regulations.  A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required §§
152.30 et seq. and §§
152.45 et seq. is presumed to be in violation until the time as that
documentation is provided.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.06  APPLICABLE JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of White Lake.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.07  ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard are those identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (F.E.M.A.) in its Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Study and Flood Insurance Rate Map(s), for F.H.B.M. No. 370-293
dated 1-1-1978, which with accompanying supporting data, and any revision
thereto, including Letters of Map Amendment or Revision, are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.  The areas of special
flood hazard also include those defined through standard engineering analysis
for private developments or by governmental agencies, but which have not yet
been incorporated in the F.I.R.M.  This included detailed flood information
generated as a requirement of §
152.32(J).
   (B)   In addition, upon annexation to the Town of White Lake, or inclusion
in the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction, the areas of special flood hazard
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its Flood Hazard
Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Study and Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) for
Unincorporated Bladen County, with accompanying maps and other supporting data,
and any revision thereto, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration.  Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.  Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes.  This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.  This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of White Lake or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.13  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted 4-18-1997 as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of the existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced.
   (B)   The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or
proceeding instituted or pending.
   (C)   All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance of Town of
White Lake enacted on 4-18-1997, as amended, which are not re-enacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.14  EFFECT ON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any building, structure, or part
thereof for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building
Inspector or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this
chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under the
outstanding permit within a period of 60 days subsequent to passage of this
chapter, construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.15  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.30  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Inspector, hereinafter referred to as the Administrator, is
hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.31  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the
Administrator on forms furnished by the Administrator prior to any development
activities.  The development permit shall include, but not be limited to, plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing:  the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures; and the
location of fill materials, storage areas, and drainage facilities.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year flood plain contour, or a
statement that the entire lot is within the flood plain, must be provided by
the development permit applicant when the lot is within or
appears to be within the flood plain as mapped by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the flood plain identified pursuant to either §
152.32(J) or §§
152.47 and
152.48.  The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   The plot plan required by division (B)(1) above must show the
floodway as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or pursuant
to either §
152.32(J) or §
152.47, or the setback required for streams without designated floodways as
required by §
152.47(B).
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §
152.07 or §
152.32(J), the application for a development permit within the flood hazard
area shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
and
         (b)   If the nonresidential structure will be floodproofed in
accordance with §
152.46(B), the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure
will be floodproofed.
      (4)   Where the base flood elevation data is not provided, the
application for a development permit must show construction of the lowest floor
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (5)   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include: 
a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation.
      (6)   When a structure is floodproofed, the applicant shall provide a
floodproofing certificate (F.E.M.A. Form 81-65) from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in §
152.46(B).
      (7)   An elevation certificate (F.E.M.A. Form 81-31) or a floodproofing
certificate (F.E.M.A. Form 81-65) is required after the lowest floor is
completed.  Within 21 calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor
elevation, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, whichever is
applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Administrator a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, or
floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as built, in relation to mean
sea level.  The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same.  When floodproofing is utilized for a particular building,
the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same.  Any work done within
the 21-day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall
be at the permit holder's risk.  The Administrator shall review the floor
elevation survey data submitted.  Deficiencies detected by the review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive
work being permitted to proceed.  Failure to submit the survey or failure to
make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order
for the project.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to assure that the requirements of this
chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required and, if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments within floodways, unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.45 et seq. are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.31(B)(7);
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with §
152.31(B)(7);
   (H)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect, in
accordance with §
152.46(B);
   (I)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the areas of special flood hazard (such as, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation.  The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §
152.30 et seq.;
   (J)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data has not been provided
in accordance with §
152.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data
and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, including
data developed pursuant to §
152.48(D), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (K)   When the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazard conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(L.O.M.A.) by F.E.M.A.  A copy of the Letter of Map Amendment issued from
F.E.M.A. will be maintained by the Administrator in the permit file;
   (L)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
152.33;
   (M)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke permits,
and take actions in accordance with §
152.33; and
   (N)   Maintain all records pertaining to the administration of this chapter
and make these records available for public inspection.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.33  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress.  As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may
be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions
of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit.  In exercising this power,
the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to
enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders.  Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped.  The stop-work
order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.  The stop-
work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons
for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed. 
Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.  The Administrator may revoke and require the
return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder, in writing,
stating the reason for the revocation.  Permits shall be revoked for any
substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications;
for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws;
or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.  Any
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections.  The Administrator and each member of his or her
Inspections Department shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of
the Department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected.  When the Administrator finds violations
of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to notify the
owner or occupant of the building of the violation.  The owner or occupant
shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law in the property he or
she owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.  If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or registered
mail, to his or her last known address or by personal service that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Administrator at a designated
place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which
time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to
present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Administrator may issue the order to
alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action.  If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed in division (F) above, the Administrator shall find that
the building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall make an order, in writing, to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within the period, not less than 60 days, the
Administrator may prescribe; provided that where the Administrator finds that
there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that
corrective action be taken in the lesser period as may be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal.  Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal, in writing, to the Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order.  In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Administrator shall be final.  The local governing body shall hear an
appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke
the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order.  If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.34  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustments as established by the Town of White
Lake, hereinafter referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide
request for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
the decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures, upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of that damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach the conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built, and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.  The notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions
and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon
request.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.45  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Provisions for special flood hazard areas.  In all areas of special
flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and
      (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming buildings or uses.  Nonconforming buildings or uses may
not be enlarged, replaced, or rebuilt unless the enlargement or reconstruction
is accomplished in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.  However,
nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway or stream setback,
provided that the bulk of the building or structure below base flood elevation
in the floodway or stream setback is not increased and provided that the
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
152.07 or
152.32(J), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.  New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor (including basement) elevated no lower than two feet above the
base flood elevation.  Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements
of flood waters shall be provided.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.  New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated no lower than two feet
above the level of the base flood elevation.  Structures located in A Zones may
be floodproofed to the flood protection level in lieu of elevation, provided
that all areas of the structure below the required elevation are watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy.  A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the standards of this division are satisfied.  The
certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
152.31(B)(7).
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a  manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood; must be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood
elevation, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions of division (C)(1) above must be elevated on
reinforced piers or other structural elements so that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.  For the purpose of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement in accordance with the Regulations for Mobile Home and Modular Housing
adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. 
Additionally, when the elevation of the chassis is 36 inches or less above the
grade, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or other foundation
elements of at least equivalent strength.  When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas.  This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Administrator and the local
Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles.  A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on wheels or a jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.  Recreation vehicles placed on sites shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (2)   Meet the requirements of §§
152.31,
152.45, and
152.46(C).
   (E)   Elevated buildings.  New construction, or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings, that include fully enclosed areas that are usable solely
for the parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than
a basement, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to preclude
finished living space and be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect, or meet the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms, except to enclose storage areas.
   (F)   Temporary structures.  Prior to the issuance of a development permit
for a temporary structure, the following requirements must be met.
      (1)   All applicants must submit to the Administrator, prior to the
issuance of the development permit, a plan for the removal of the structure(s)
in the event of a hurricane or flash flood warning notification.  The plan must
include the following information:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e. minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or immediately
upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed;
and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the flood plain to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (2)   The above information shall be submitted, in writing, to the
Administrator for review and written approval.
   (G)   Accessory structure.  When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) with a value of $3,000 or less are to be placed in the
flood plain, the following criteria shall be met.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking, or rest room areas).
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
152.45(A)(1).
      (5)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment, shall
be installed in accordance with §
152.45(A)(4).
      (6)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation, in conformance with division (E) above.
   (H)   Floodways.  Located within areas of special flood hazard, established
in §
152.07, are areas designated as floodways.  The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris and
potential projectiles and has erosion potential.  The following provisions
shall apply within these areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted, unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood.  The certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Administrator.
      (2)   If division (H)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
152.45 et seq.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision.  A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of division (C) above and the
encroachment standards of division (H)(1) above are met.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47  STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/
OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07 are small streams where no base flood data has been provided or where no
floodways have been identified.  The following provisions apply within these
areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank, or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied and base flood elevation data is
available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements
within the areas shall comply with all applicable flood hazard ordinance
provisions of §§
152.45 et seq. and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with
elevations established in accordance with §
152.32(J).  When base flood elevation data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source, the lowest floor (including basement) shall be elevated
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.  Two feet is the minimum
requirement.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.48  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS AND MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Proposals for subdivisions and major developments shall be consistent
with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   Proposals for subdivisions and major developments shall have public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems,
located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   Proposals for subdivisions and major developments shall have adequate
drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed developments which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or
five acres.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
or its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.  Each day's continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.  Nothing herein shall
prevent White Lake from taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1997)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's zoning code is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   BOUNDARY AND ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Annexing certain property beginning at the northeast corner of the tract described
-    12-13- by plat of survey recorded in Plat Cabinet A-44, Page 446, “Waterford Estates”
     1988   tract; includes Lots 1 through 56, Phase 1, and Lots 57 through 74, Phase II, of the
            Turtle Cove Subdivision, along with a street yet to be named
-    7-27-  Annexing certain property beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 1, Block “F,” of
     1999   “Watergate,” as set out on map of same recorded in Map Book 10, Page 45
-    7-27-  Annexing certain property beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 2, Block “F,” of
     1999   “Watergate,” as set out on map of same recorded in Map Book 10, Page 45
            Annexing certain property:  Young Tract, being all of Lot 14, Block “B,” of
            Watergate Subdivision, Section 1, as per plot of same recorded in Plat Book 10, Page
            45, in Bladen County Public Registry; Pate Tract, being all of Lots 1 and 2, Block
            “M,” as shown on plat entitled “Map for Waterford Estates, Colly Township, Bladen
            County, North Carolina,” dated 1-10-1985, by Lloyd R. Walker, Registered Land
-    6-30-  Surveyor, as recorded in Plat Cabinet A-44, Page 446, in Bladen County Public
     2001   Registry; de Andrade Tract, being all of Lot 6, Block “E,” as shown on plat entitled
            “Map for Waterford Estates, Colly Township, Bladen County, North Carolina,” dated 1-
            10-1985 by Lloyd R. Walker, Registered Land Surveyor, as recorded in Plat Cabinet A-
            44, Page 446, in Bladen County Public Registry, and also being the same property
            designated as Lot 6, Block “E,” of Watergate Subdivision, as per plat of same
            recorded in Plat Book 10, Page 45, in Bladen County Public Registry
            Annexing certain property: Beginning at a point designated as Point “B” marking the
            northeastern corner of Waterford Estates as shown on a Map of Survey recorded in
            Plat Cabinet A-44 at page 446 in the Bladen County Public Registry, said point of
            beginning also being South 1 degree 55 minutes 49 seconds East 214.04 feet from a
            point marking the Southeastern corner of Lot #1 of the Turtle Cove Subdivision as
            shown on a map recorded in Plat Cabinet A-56 at page 569 in the Bladen County Public
            Registry; THENCE FROM SAID POINT OF BEGINNING North 80 degrees 38 minutes 00 seconds
–  4-13-  West 420.72 feet with the Waterford Estate line (10 feet wide buffer zone) to a
     2004   point marked by an iron pope; thence a new line North 4 degrees 51 minutes 00
            seconds East 100.31 feet to a point marked by an iron pipe; thence a new line South
            80 degrees 38 minutes 00 seconds East 408.65 feet to a point; thence South 1 degree
            55 minutes 49 seconds East 101.98 feet (a traverse of the height water mark of White
            Lake) to the beginning, containing 0.95 acres, more or less, according at a Map of
            Survey dated November 24, 2000 by Lloyd R. Walker, Professional Land Surveyor, a
            copy of here said map being attached as Exhibit “A” and incorporated hereby by
            reference.
–  4-13-  Annexing certain property:
     2004   1st Property: Book 0478 Page 0118.
            Tract One: That certain lot or parcel of land, situate, lying and being in Bladen
            County, Colly Township, North Carolina, near White Lake, and being Lot No. Seven (7)
            in Section II, of the max Lennon Subdivision of the H. Leon Melvin lands, as will
            more fully appear by reference to a map or plat of the same made by Clarence Hall,
            Jr., Registered Surveyor, on May 27, 1972, a copy of which map or plat is duly
            recorded in map Book j10, at page 37, in the office of the Register of Deeds for
          Bladen County, to which map or plat reference is here made for a more accurate
            description and location of the lot herein conveyed.  The above described lot being
            the same contained in deed dated June 15, 1972, from max R. Lennon, et ux, to Etha
            L. Cook recorded in the Bladen County Public Registry.  Also being the same lot
            contained in deed dated February 28, 1973, from Etha L. Cook to James Russell Grimes
            and wife, Annie Laura G. Grimes, recorded in Deed Book 198, Page 57, Bladen County
            Registry.
            Tract Two: That certain lot or parcel of land, situate lying and being in Bladen
            County, Colly Township, North Carolina, lying on the south side of N.C. Highway 41,
            and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a pont in the
            southeast corner of Lot 149 as shown on map of Lennondale Acres, Section I-B,
            recorded in map Book 11, Page 40, Bladen County Registry, also being in the northern
            line of Lennondale Drive; and runs thence North 48 degrees 36 minutes East 120.27
            feet to a point; thence South 78 degrees 04 minutes East 142.22 feet to an axle;
            thence with a line South 65 degrees 37 minutes East 100.00 feet to an axle; thence
            with a line South 28 degrees 04 minutes West 246.45 feet to a pipe; thence with a
            line North 50 degrees 04 minutes West 133.20 feet to the southeastern corner of Lot
            No. 2, deeded to Darrell Bass by Deed of record in Deed Book 323, Page 531, Bladen
            County Registry; thence with the line of the Darrell Bass lot North 35 degrees 56
            minutes East 98.10 feet to an iron; thence with a line North 50 degrees 04 minutes
            West 109.77 feet to an iron; thence with a line South 48 degrees 36 minutes West
            74.49 feet to an iron; thence with a line North 41 degrees 24 minutes West 30.00
          feet, to the point and place of beginning.  Excepting and Reserving unto James
            Russell Grimes and his wife Annie Laura G. Grimes, their heirs and assigns, full and
            free right and liberty at all times hereafter, a nonexclusive easement for purposes
            of ingress, egress, and regress, as well as for water and sewer line upon the
            following described tract: BEGINNING at a point in the southeast corner of Lot 149
            as shown on map of Lennondale Acres, Section I-B, recorded in map Book 11, Page 40,
            Bladen County Registry, also being in the northern line of Lennondale Drive; and
            runs thence North 48 degrees 36 minutes East 74.49 feet to a point in the line of
            Russell Grimes property described in Deed Book 232, Page 632, Bladen County
            Registry; thence South 50 degrees 04 minutes East 30 feet to an iron; thence South
            48 degrees 36 minutes West 30.00 feet, to the point and place of beginning.  Being a
            30-foot wide easement extending from the existing end of Lennondale Drive for a
            distance of 74.49 feet.  The above described being part of that certain 3.12 acre
            tract conveyed from max R. Lennon and his wife, Mary T. Lennon to James Russell
            Grimes and his wife Annie Laura Grimes, dated January 9, 1979, of record in Deed
            Book 232, Bladen County Registry.
          2nd Property: Book 0471 Page 0008.
            BEGINNING at an iron stake on the southern right-- of-way line of North Carolina
            State Highway #41, 50 feet from the center line of said highway, and being the
            northwest corner of Lot number 7 of Section II of max Lennon’s subdivision of the H.
            Leon Melvin lands, as shown on a map prepared by Clarence Hall, Jr., Registered
            Surveyor, dated may 27, 1972, and recorded in map Book 10, Page 37, Bladen County
            Registry, and runs thence with the western line of Lot Number 7, South 24 degrees 40
            minutes West 213.7 feet to the Southwest corner of said lot; thence North 78 degrees
          16 minutes West 200.56 feet to a stake; thence North 25 degrees 55 minutes East 200
            feet to an iron stake in the southern right-of-way line of North Carolina State
            Highway #41; thence with the right-of-way line of said Highway South 74 degrees 03
            minutes East 100 feet to a stake; thence continuing with said right-of-way line
            South 80 degrees 41 minutes East 100 feet to the point of beginning.  Being the same
            deed described in deed dated November 3, 1997 from Etha L. Cook, widow to Golden
            Star Contracting Co., Inc. and recorded in Book 397, Page 823, Bladen County
            Registry.
          3rd Property: Book 0480 Page 0912.
            BEGINNING at a pipe in the Eastern edge of Lennondale Drive, the Northwest corner of
            Lot 144, of Lennondale Acres, Section 1-C, as shown on a map recorded in map Book
            12, Page 85, Bladen County Registry and runs thence with Lennondale Drive and
            beyond, North 48 degrees 36 minutes East, 98.99 feet to an iron; thence South 50
            degrees 04 minutes, East, 50.02 feet to an iron, the beginning point of the tract
          herein conveyed: BEGINNING at said beginning point as above located and runs thence
            South 50 degrees 04 minutes East, 59.75 feet to an iron; thence South 35 degrees 56
            minutes West, 98.10 feet to an iron in the line of Lot 142 of Lennondale Acres,
            Section 1-C; thence North 50 degrees 04 minutes West with the line of Lot 142and
            continuing with the line of Lot 143, a distance of 66.6 feet to a pipe, the
            Northeast corner of Lot 144; thence North 39 degrees 56 minutes East, 97.86 feet to
            a point and place of beginning, containing 6,183 square feet.
            ALSO A NON- EXCLUSIVE RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT for the purpose of ingress, egress and
            regress, as described as follows: BEGINNING at a pipe in the Eastern edge of
            Lennondale Drive, the Northwest corner of Lot 144, of Lennondale Acres, Section I-C,
            and runs thence North 48 degrees 36 minutes East, 74.49 feet to an iron; thence
            South 50 degrees 04 minutes, East, 109.77 feet to an iron; thence North 35 degrees
            56 minutes East, about 31 feet to a point; thence North 50 degrees 004 minutes West,
          228.58 feet to a pipe; thence South 48 degrees 36 minutes West, 100.27 feet to a
            pipe, Southern corner of Russell Grimes land described in Deed Book 232, Page 623,
            Bladen County Registry; thence with the end of Lennondale Drive South 41 degrees 24
            minutes East, 30.0 feet to the point of beginning.  Being the same property
            described in Deed dated October 7, 1992 from Russell Grimes and wife, Annie Laura
            Grimes to Darrell Bass D/B/A Bass and Company and recorded in Book 323, Page 531,
            Bladen County Registry.
           
 
TABLE II:  BOUNDARY AND ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Boundaries amended for the extraterritorial enforcement of
-        5-14-2002   the Land Use Plan and Zoning Ordinance; boundaries are
                     delineated on the face of a map entitled "Town of White
                     Lake Official ETJ Map"
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina Code
References to 1983 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA CODE
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                Code Section
Ch. 7A                    152.34
                          130.01–
                          130.04;
Ch. 14                    130.15;
                          130.30-
                          130.33;
                          130.99
                          31.99;
14-4                      50.99;
                          52.999;
                          96.01
14-4(a)                   10.99
14-4(b)                   70.99
14-223                    32.01;
                          32.02
14-288.8(c)               31.01
14-304 - 14-309           110.33
                          50.01–
14-399                    50.10;
                          50.99
14-415.11                 94.03
14-415.11(c)              31.03
15A-405                   32.01;
                          32.02
Ch. 18B                   111.01;
                          111.02
18B-300(c)                111.02
20-4.01(12b)              94.03
20-51(14)                 94.03
20-140                    70.18
20-141                    Ch. 71, Sched. I
20-141(d)(1)              Ch. 71, Sched. I
20-141(d)(2)              Ch. 71, Sched. I
20-157                    70.16;
                          70.17
20-162                    70.19
                          70.01;
20-169                    70.15-
                          70.20;
                          70.99
20-171                    94.03
20-222                    92.09
Ch. 44A, Art. 1           92.11
58-79-1                   33.25
58-79-20                  33.26
Ch. 58, Art. 82           91.01;
                          91.02
58-82-1                   33.05
Ch. 58, Art. 83           91.01;
                          91.02
Ch. 69                    91.02;
                          91.02
87-16 et seq.             151.60
                          30.01–
95-126 et seq.            30.08;
                          30.20-
                          30.26
                          Charter,
                          Sec. 5;
Ch. 105                   34.01;
                          110.01;
                          110.02
105-113.79                111.01
105-349 et seq.           110.01;
                          110.02
105-350                   34.01
106-421                   96.01–
                          96.08
113-1                     Charter,
                          Sec. 4
121-5                     30.07
                          30.01–
128-21 et seq.            30.08;
                          30.20-
                          30.26
Ch. 136                   94.01;
                          94.15-91.21
136-41.1 et seq.          Ch. 72, Sched. I
136-66.1                  94.01;
                          94.15-91.21
136-141 et seq.           92.14
136-143                   92.14
                          151.01–
                          151.06;
                          151.20-
143-136 et seq.           151.26;
                          151.40-
                          151.48;
                          151.60-
                          151.62
                          151.01–
                          151.06;
                          151.20-
143-138                   151.26;
                          151.40-
                          151.48;
                          151.60-
                          151.62
143-138(b)                151.02
143-138(e)                151.02
143-143.8 et seq.         151.02
143-143.15                152.46
143-152                   51.07
143-215.6(A)–143-215.6(C52.105
143-215.51–143-215.62   152.01
143-318.9 et seq.         30.23;
                          150.03
143-318.10                30.21
143-318.11                30.21
143-318.12                30.23
153A-122                  94.15;
                          151.04
153A-123                  94.21
153A-335                  94.17
159-34                    30.06
159-55                    30.04
Ch. 160                   Charter,
                          Sec. 1
Ch. 160A                  Charter,
                          Sec. 1
160A-3                    Charter and Related Laws
Ch. 160A, Art. 8          152.01
160A-21                   Charter,
                          Sec. 2
160A-24 et seq.           Charter,
                          Sec. 2
                          30.01–
160A-59 et seq.           30.08;
                          30.20-
                          30.26
160A-59                   Charter,
                          Sec. 6
160A-62                   Charter,
                          Sec. 6
160A-64                   30.08
160A-66                   Charter,
                          Sec. 3
                          Charter,
160A-69                   Sec. 3;
                          30.04
160A-70                   30.04
                          30.20;
160A-71                   30.23;
                          30.24
160A-72                   30.25
160A-74                   30.20
160A-81                   30.26
160A-162                  30.08
                          30.01–
160A-162 et seq.          30.08;
                          30.20-
                          30.26
                          30.01–
160A-174 et seq.          30.08;
                          30.20-
                          30.26
                          96.01–
                          96.08;
                          130.01-
160A-174                  130.04;
                          130.15;
                          130.30-
                          130.33;
                          130.99
160A-175                  10.99;
                          52.106
                          130.01–
                          130.04;
160A-183                  130.15;
                          130.30-
                          130.33;
                          130.99
160A-184                  130.01
160A-188                  Charter,
                          Sec. 8
                          Charter,
160A-189                  Sec. 9;
                          130.15
                          50.01–
                          50.10;
160A-193                  50.99;
                          96.01-
                          96.08
160A-194                  110.01;
                          110.02
                          Charter,
160A-206                  Sec. 5;
                          34.01
160A-211                  110.01;
                          110.02
                          33.04;
                          70.01;
160A-213                  70.15-
                          70.20;
                          70.99
160A-216 et seq.          94.01;
                          94.15-91.21
160A-216–160A-238       51.42;
                          151.47
160A-281 et seq.          32.01;
                          32.02
160A-291 et seq.          91.01;
                          91.02
160A-291                  33.01
                          33.01–
                          33.07;
160A-292                  33.20-
                          33.28;
                          33.40-
                          33.44
160A-296 et seq.          94.01;
                          94.15-91.21
160A-299                  94.01;
                          94.15-91.21
                          70.01;
160A-300 et seq.          70.15-
                          70.20;
                          70.99
160A-303                  92.02
160A-303.1                50.09
160A-303.2                92.02
160A-311 et seq.          Ch. 51
160A-314                  51.11
160A-314(B)               51.15,
                          51.21
160a-314(c)               51.10
                          51.05;
160A-317                  51.12;
                          51.16
                          93.01;
160A-350 et seq.          93.15-
                          93.21
160A-360 et seq.          150.01–
                          150.10
160A-460 et seq.          150.01–
                          150.10
                          30.01–
163-279 et seq.           30.08;
                          30.20-
                          30.26
163-279                   Charter,
                          Sec. 7
163-288                   30.01
163-291 et seq.           Charter,
                          Sec. 7
163-291                   30.02
163-294.2                 30.02
166A-8                    31.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1983 CODE
1983 Code 2004 Code
1983 Code 2004 Code
2-1       30.01
2-2       30.02
2-3       30.03
2-4       30.04
2-4.1     30.05
2-5       30.20
2-6       30.21
2-6.1     30.22
2-7       30.23
2-8       30.26
2-9       30.24
2-10      30.25
2-11      30.06
2-11.1    30.07
2-12      30.08
2-13      30.08
2-14      30.08
2-15      31.01;
          31.99
2-16      31.01
2-17      31.02;
          31.99
2-18      31.03
3-1       111.01
3-2       111.01
4-1       112.01
4-2       112.02
4-3       112.03
4-5       112.04
6-1       151.01
6-11      151.02
6-12      151.02
6-13      151.03
6-14      151.04
6-15      151.05
6-16      151.06
6-28      151.20
6-29      151.21
6-30      151.22
6-31      151.23
6-32      151.24
6-33      151.25
6-34      151.26
6-35      151.40
6-36      151.41
6-37      151.42
6-38      151.42
6-39      151.43
6-40      151.44
6-41      151.45
6-42      151.46
6-43      151.47
6-44      151.48
6-46      151.60
6-47      151.61
6-48      151.62
7-1       91.01
7-2       91.02
7-3       91.02
7-15      33.01
7-16      33.02
7-17      33.03
7-18      33.04
7-19      33.05
7-21      33.06
7-33      33.20
7-34      33.21
7-35      33.22
7-36      33.23
7-37      33.24
7-38      33.25
7-39      33.26
7-40      33.26
7-41      33.27
7-42      33.28
7-43      33.28
7-55      33.40
7-56      33.41
7-57      33.42
7-59      33.43
7-60      33.44
8-1       110.01
8-2       110.02
9-1       70.15
9-2       70.16
9-3       70.17
9-4       70.18
9-5       70.18
9-6       Ch. 72, Sched. I
9-7       Ch. 72, Sched. I
9-9       Ch. 71, Sched. I
9-10      Ch. 71, Sched. II
9-11      70.20
9-13      Ch. 71, Sched. III
9-22      70.01
9-31      92.01
9-32      92.02
9-33      92.03
9-34      92.04
9-35      92.05
9-36      92.06
9-37      92.07
9-38      92.08
9-39      92.09
9-40      92.09
9-41      92.11
9-42      92.12
9-43      92.13
9-44      92.14
9-45      92.14
10-1      130.01
10-1.1    130.02
10-2      130.03;
          130.99
10-2.1    130.04
10-3      130.15
10-4      95.01-
          95.07
10-17     96.01
10-18     96.02
10-19     96.03
10-20     96.04
10-21     96.05
10-22     96.06
10-23     96.07
10-24     96.08
10-35     130.30
10-36     130.31
10-37     130.32
10-38     130.33
11-1      93.01
11-13     93.15
11-14     93.16
11-15     93.17
11-16     93.18
11-17     93.19
11-18     93.20
11-19     93.21
12-11     150.01
12-12     150.02
12-13     150.03
12-14     150.04
12-15     150.05
12-16     150.06
12-17     150.07
12-18     150.08
12-19     150.09
12-20     150.10
13-1      32.01
13-2      32.02
14-11     50.01
14-12     50.02
14-13     50.03
14-14     50.03
14-15     50.04
14-16     50.05
14-17     50.06
14-18     50.07
14-19     50.08
14-20     50.09
14-21     50.10;
          50.99
15-1      94.01
16-1      34.01
17-1      51.01
17-2      51.02
17-2.1    51.03
17-3      51.12
17-3.1    51.13
17-6      51.14
17-12     51.15
17-13     51.19
17-15     51.17
17-16     51.18
17-17     51.19
17-18     51.20
17-19     51.11
17-20     51.22
17-21     51.23
17-22     51.24;
          51.99
17-23     51.21
17-32     51.40
17-33     51.41
17-34     51.42
17-35     51.43
17-36     51.44
17-37     51.45
17-38     51.99
17-60     52.001
17-61     52.002
17-62     52.003
17-70     52.015
17-71     52.016
17-72     52.017
17-73     52.018
17-74     52.019
17-75     52.020
17-76     52.021
17-77     52.022
17-78     52.023
17-79     52.024
17-80     52.025
17-81     52.026
17-82     52.027
17-83     52.028
17-84     52.029
17-85     52.030
17-86     52.031
17-87     52.032
17-88     52.033
17-90     52.045
17-100    52.060
17-101    52.061
17-102    52.062
17-103    52.063
17-104    52.064
17-105    52.065
17-106    52.066
17-107    52.067
17-108    52.068
17-109    52.069
17-110    52.070
17-111    52.071
17-120    52.085
17-121    52.086
17-122    52.087
17-123    52.088
17-124    52.089
17-125    52.090
17-126    52.091
17-130    52.105
17-131    52.999
17-132    52.106
17-133    52.106
17-134    52.108
17-135    52.109
17-136    52.110
17-137    52.111
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      10-23-1959  130.15
–      8-26-1960   30.04
–      5-26-1961   112.02;
                     112.03
–      6-27-1961   51.11;
                     51.19
–      11-24-1961  51.12;
                     51.15
                     33.01–
                     33.06;
                     33.20-
                     33.28;
                     33.40-
–      4-20-1962   33.44;
                     70.16;
                     70.17;
                     70.19;
                     91.01;
                     151.02
–      4-23-1965   151.06
–      8-26-1966   Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      7-6-1967    112.03
–      4-25-1969   112.03
–      6-18-1970   51.15
–      1-4-1972    51.14
–      2-1-1972    51.12
–      6-6-1974    30.01
–      10-3-1974   34.01
–      4-3-1975    32.02
–      7-7-1975    51.12
–      1-3-1977    30.26
–      12-5-1977   151.04
–      11-6-1978   151.04
–      5-7-1981    110.01
–      7-1-1982    Ch. 72, Sched. I
–      11-29-1983  51.11;
                     51.19
                     130.01–
–      6-13-1989   130.04;
                     130.99
                     94.15–
–      11-10-1992  94.21;
                     Ch. 94, App. A;
                     Ch. 94, App. B
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      7-9-1956    70.18
                     51.01;
–      9-22-1961   51.14;
                     151.60-
                     151.62
–      1-27-1962   51.12
                     130.01;
                     130.03;
                     130.15;
–      2-26-1965   130.99;
                     151.02;
                     151.06;
                     151.20-
                     151.26
–      3-25-1966   112.02; 111.03
–      4-22-1966   93.15–
                     93.21
                     51.02;
–      11-3-1967   51.11;
                     51.12
                     31.01;
–      4-26-1968   31.99;
                     130.30-
                     130.33
–      8-5-1969    110.01;
                     111.02
–      3-3-1970    51.23
–      7-7-1970    130.03;
                     130.99
–      10-6-1970   51.12
–      3-2-1971    151.02
–      6-1-1971    Ch. 71, Sched. II
–      3-6-1973    50.09;
                     51.12
–      11-20-1973  50.01–
                     50.08
–      3-7-1974    50.07
–      6-6-1974    93.01
–      2-6-1975    Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      7-5-1976    Ch. 72, Sched. I
–      3-10-1980   70.01
–      4-7-1980    91.02
–      1-16-1981   150.01;
                     150.02
                     51.14;
                     51.40;
–      6-6-1984    51.41;
                     51.45;
                     51.99;
                     151.05
–      3-5-1985    51.12
–      5-7-1985    51.42
–      6-4-1985    Ch. 71, Sched. III
–      7-2-1985    Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      11-7-1985   150.02–
                     150.10
–      3-4-1986    31.01;
                     31.99
–      7-8-1986    51.24;
                     51.99
–      4-14-1987   51.40
–      5-12-1987   151.05
                     52.001–
                     52.003;
                     52.015-
                     52.019;
                     52.021-
                     52.033;
–      9-13-1988   52.045;
                     52.060-
                     52.071;
                     52.085-
                     52.091;
                     52.105-
                     52.111;
                     52.999
–      12-13-1988  TSO I
–      6-13-1989   Ch. 72, Sched. I
–      11-21-1989  96.01–
                     96.08
–      12-12-1989  50.10;
                     50.99
–      6-4-1991    Ch. 71, Sched. II
–      7-23-1991   51.03
                     92.01–
–      12-10-1991  92.15;
                     151.40-
                     151.48
–      4-14-1992   51.01;
                     51.15
–      6-9-1992    70.20
–      10-13-1992  51.13
–      12-8-1992   110.02;
                     111.01
–      6-8-1993    Ch. 71, Sched. II
–      10-12-1993  31.02
–      6-21-1995   51.21
–      1-9-1996    31.03
–      11-12-1996  Ch. 71, Sched. I
                     152.01–
–      4-8-1997    152.15; 151.30-151.34;
                     151.45-
                     151.48; 151.99
–      7-27-1999   TSO I
–      6-30-2001   TSO I
–      5-14-2002   TSO II
–      11-12-2002  33.07
–      4-13-2004   TSO I
-        7-13-2004   50.08
-        7-13-2004   Adopting ordinance
-        8-10-2004   94.02;
                     94.99
-        1-11-2005   52.120–
                     52.122
-        10-11-2005  30.08
                     51.02;
                     51.03;
                     51.11-
                     51.14;
-        3-13-2007   51.19-
                     51.21;
                     51.23;
                     51.24;
                     51.40;
                     51.42
- -      9-9-2008    31.02
                     33.01–
- -      11-18-2008  33.03;
                     33.24;
                     33.27
- -      3-10-2009   34.01
- -      4-1-2010    34.01
- -      5-10-2011   110.33
                     51.01–
- -      8-13-2013   51.07;
                     51.10-
                     51.25
                     51.01–
2014-1   11-12-2013  51.07;
                     51.10-
                     51.25
2020-01  7-9-2019    94.03
2020-04  3-31-2020   51.21
2020-06  6-11-2020   50.08
                    
 
