TOWN OF WILKESBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-02 passed 4-7-2025, and
Res. 2022-19, passed 6-6-2022; and
State legislation current through 2025 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet #1
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
THE CHARTER
THE TOWN CHARTER OF WILKESBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
_____________
The Charter
_____________
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
____________
   Catchlines have been added and a uniform system of capitalization has been
utilized. A frontal analysis has been added for the convenience of the user.
   Some of the provisions of the Charter, though not specifically repealed or
amended, are now obsolete because they have been superseded by general law
applicable to this town and other municipalities. For this reason, some
material is indicated as having been omitted. However, the material remaining
should be carefully checked against the General Statutes of North Carolina in
determining the present applicability of any provision of this Charter.
Editor’s note:
   The Charter herein set out is contained in Private Laws 1889, chapter 240.
   §
1.   Town boundaries.
   § 2.   Town government.
   §§ 3 to 10.   Omitted.
   §
11.   Election, term of office, compensation, etc., of mayor.
   §
12.   Oath of office.
   §§ 13 to 15.   Omitted.
   §
16.   Board of commissioners–Mayor to be presiding officer.
   §
17.   Same–Meetings.
   §
18.   Same–Ordinances generally.
   §
19.   Same–Powers generally.
   §
20.   Appointment of clerk and treasurer.
   §
21.   Duties of clerk.
   §
22.   Powers and liabilities of tax-collector.
   §
23.   Police force generally.
   §
24.   Fees of chief of police; temporary police.
   §
25.   Suspension of police.
   §
26.   Police uniforms; police powers generally.
   §
27.   Weighmaster; inspector; town engineer; town attorney.
   §
28.   Auctions and auctioneers.
   §§ 29 to 37.   Omitted.
   §
38.   License taxes.
   §
39.   Tax levy.
   §
40.   Streets and sidewalks.
   §
41.   Condemnation of land.
   §
42.   Cemeteries.
   §
43.   Fire companies; fire limits.
   §
44.   Additional miscellaneous powers of board of commissioners.
   §
45.   Nuisances.
   §
46.   Street and market sales.
   §
47.   Alcoholic beverages.
   §
48.   Fines and penalties.
   §
49.   Conflicts of interest.
   §
50.   Public buildings.
   §
51.   Penalties for violation of ordinances generally.
   §
52.   Recovery of penalties.
   §
53.   Omitted.
   §
54.   Violation of ordinance a misdemeanor.
   §
55.   No increase or diminution of salary during term.
   §
56.   Vagrants.
   §
57.   Omitted.
   §
58.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
Sec. 1. Town boundaries.
   That the inhabitants of the Town of Wilkesboro, living within the territory
bounded as follows, viz.: Beginning on the south bank of the Yadkin River at
the iron bridge, running westwardly with the base of the hill on to a poplar
and three white oaks at a spring in the edge of Col. E. J. Cowles’ bottom;
thence same general course to a large red oak on bank of old Jefferson Road at
the top of the Curtis Hill; thence across said road southwest to a white
walnut, J. M. Walton and L. T. Pruette’s corner; thence southwardly across the
river road on to a bunch of dogwoods in D. E. Smoak’s line; thence eastwardly
to a red oak on the old Burke Road; thence across the same, including C. H.
Craven’s lot, to a stake at I. S. Call’s gate on the ridge above his barn;
thence east to bend of mountain road near Wm. Harris, and on east with said
road, including James Harris et al., on to a large poplar and Spanish oak on
east bank of Still-house Branch; thence down said branch to Cob Creek, and down
the same to a birch on north bank of said creek south of J. P. Rousseau’s
house; thence north to the base of hill; thence eastwardly with the base of
said hill to the old Salem Road; thence across same with base of hill in Capt.
J. T. Peden's bottom and north to a sycamore on the bank of Yadkin River;
thence up said river to the beginning, containing the Town of Wilkesboro.
Sec. 2. Town government.
   The Town Board of Commissioners does hereby adopt a Council-Manager form of
government pursuant to G.S. 160A-101(9)b. Wherein, “The city shall operate
under the Council-Manager form of government in accordance with Part 2 of
Article 7 of this chapter and any charter provisions not in conflict
therewith.” The Town Manger shall appoint the Chief of Police with the advice
of Mayor and Town Council.
   Further, in accordance with G.S. 160A-101(3), the governing board shall be
styled the Town Council.
Editor’s note:
   This section was amended by the Town Board of Commissioners by ordinance
with the intent to amend the governing board to be styled the Town Council.
Said ordinance was passed on June 5, 2006.
Secs. 3 to 10. Omitted.
Sec. 11. Election, term of office, compensation, etc., of mayor.
   The mayor shall be elected by the qualified voters of the Town of Wilkesboro
for the term of one year and until his successor shall be elected and
qualified. The town commissioners may allow said mayor an annual salary not
exceeding three hundred dollars, to be paid out of the town treasury. In case a
vacancy shall occur in the office of mayor, the town commissioners shall
appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. In case
two or more persons receive an equal number of votes for the office of mayor,
the sheriff of Wilkes County shall determine the matter by his vote. If a
vacancy occur in the office by death, resignation or otherwise, and there is
not a board of commissioners competent to fill such vacancy, the board of
commissioners of Wilkes County, on such fact being certified to them by the
town clerk, shall appoint a recorder for said town, whose duty it shall be to
preside at the town court, known as the mayor’s court, with as full and ample
authority to try and dispose of all cases within the jurisdiction of said court
as the mayor has under this Charter, and to perform all other duties incumbent
on the mayor, who shall for the time being be entitled to the emoluments of the
office, and shall continue to hold his office and exercise the duties thereof
until the office of mayor is filled according to law.
Sec. 12. Oath of office.
   That on or before the fifth day after the election, the mayor and
commissioners so elected shall meet at the town hall or some other place by
them appointed and shall then and there take an oath to support the
constitution and laws of the United States and the constitution and laws of
North Carolina, and to discharge the duties imposed upon them by virtue of
their office as mayor and town commissioners with fidelity and integrity to the
best of their ability, which oath shall be administered by a judge, justice of
the peace or former mayor.
Secs. 13 to 15.  Omitted.
Sec. 16. Board of commissioners–Mayor to be presiding officer.
   That the mayor, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the town
commissioners, and where there is an equal division upon any question or in the
election of officers by the board he shall determine the matter by his vote. He
shall vote in no other case; and if he shall be absent the board may appoint
one of their number pro tempore to exercise his duties.
Sec. 17. Same–Meetings.
   That the commissioners shall form one board, and a majority of them shall be
competent to perform all the duties prescribed, unless otherwise provided. At
their first meeting they shall fix stated days or times of meetings, which
shall be as often, at least, as once in every two months. Special meetings of
the commissioners may also be held on the call of the mayor or a majority of
the commissioners. And of every such meeting, when called by the mayor, all the
commissioners shall be notified, and when called by a majority of the
commissioners, such as shall not join in the call shall be notified.
Sec. 18. Same–Ordinances generally.
   That the board of commissioners, when convened, shall have power to make and
provide for the execution thereof such ordinances, by-laws, rules and
regulations for the better government of the town as they may deem necessary,
not inconsistent with this act or with the laws of the land.
Sec. 19. Same–Powers generally.
   That among the powers hereby conferred on the board of commissioners, they
may borrow money or create a public debt by issuing bonds or otherwise, only
after they have passed an ordinance by a two-thirds vote of the entire board at
a regular meeting submitting the question of creating a debt to a vote of the
people, and a majority of the qualified registered voters have voted in favor
thereof. Thirty days notice shall be given of such an election in some
newspaper published in Wilkesboro, at which election those who favor creating
the debt shall vote “approved,” and those who oppose it shall vote “not
approved.” The board may order a new registration of voters at any and at all
such elections, if they deem it proper to do so. They may provide suitable town
water works to supply all the necessities of the town’s public and private
wants, and regulate toll for same; take all proper means to prevent and
extinguish fires; regulate the markets; make regulations to cause the due
observance of Sunday; to appoint and regulate a police force to execute such
precepts as the mayor and others may lawfully issue to them, to preserve the
peace and order of the town, and to execute the ordinances thereof; to suppress
and remove nuisances; preserve the health of the town from contagious or
infectious diseases; and may appoint and provide for the pay and prescribe the
duties of all such other officers as may be deemed necessary.
Sec. 20. Appointment of clerk and treasurer.
   That at the first meeting of the board of commissioners, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, they shall elect a town clerk, who shall act as
treasurer, and a tax-collector, who shall respectively hold their offices
during the term of the board electing them and until their successors are
elected and qualified, subject, however, to be removed at any time and others
appointed in their stead for misbehavior or neglect in office. Before acting,
each of said officers shall take an oath before the mayor to faithfully
discharge the duties required of him by the board of commissioners, and each
shall execute a bond in such an amount as the board may require, with security
to be approved by the board. The bonds required by the clerk and tax-collector
shall be renewed every year.
Sec. 21. Duties of clerk.
   That the clerk shall have such reasonable salary as the commissioners may
designate, and it shall be his duty to keep regular and fair minutes of the
proceedings of the board, and to preserve all books, papers and other articles
committed to his care during his continuance in office, and deliver them to his
successor; and he shall receive and faithfully keep all moneys which shall be
paid to him for the use and in behalf of said town, and disburse the same
according to an order given in obedience to the directions of said board
appearing on their minutes. He shall keep a fair and correct account of all
moneys so received and disbursed by him in a book kept for that purpose,
showing from what source money is received and for what purpose paid out, and
shall submit said accounts to said board whenever required. He shall pay to his
successor all moneys in his hands belonging to said town, and faithfully
perform all duties imposed on him as clerk by the laws and ordinances of said
board.
Sec. 22. Powers and liabilities of tax-collector.
   That the tax-collector whose appointment is herein provided for shall be
vested with the same power and authority in the collection of taxes that
sheriffs have, and be subject to the same fines and penalties for failure or
neglect of duty. He shall be charged with sums appearing by the tax-lists as
due for city taxes. He shall be credited in settlement, as sheriffs are
credited, with amounts in suit by appeal, all poll-tax as in personal property
certified by the clerk of the commissioners of the county by order of the board
of county commissioners to be insolvent and incollectible. He shall at no time
retain in his hands over one hundred dollars for a longer time than seven days,
under a penalty of two per cent per month to the town upon all sums so
unlawfully retained. The board of commissioners, at the meeting before the last
regular meeting in each year, shall appoint one or more of their number to be
present and assist at the accounting and settlement between the tax-collector
and town clerk and audit and settle the accounts of the town clerk. The
accounts so audited shall be reported to the board of commissioners, and, when
approved by them, shall be recorded in the minute books of said board, and
shall be prima facie evidence of their correctness and impeachable only for
fraud or specified error. It shall be the duty of said board to remove any tax-
collector who shall fail to settle and fully pay up the taxes by law due from
him, and he shall not be eligible to re-election to said office: Provided,
however, that any male person so certified to be insolvent or delinquent as
aforesaid, not previously exempted by order of the board of commissioners, who
shall fail to pay said taxes to the collector for six months after such return
of insolvents or delinquents as aforesaid, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction before the mayor shall be fined double the value of the
taxes so due, not to exceed in any case fifty dollars; and the mayor, if said
person be committed to prison for failure to pay the fine, may employ such
offender in working the public streets and public works of said town, as set
forth in section fourteen of this act, and said mayor may allow such offender a
credit of so much per day on said fine and costs as to him may seem just and
reasonable.
Sec. 23. Police force generally.
   That the board of commissioners shall have the power to appoint a police
force, to consist of a chief of police and such number of policemen as the good
government of the city may require, who shall hold their office during the term
of the board appointing them and until their successors are appointed. The
chief of police or marshal shall give bond in such sum as the board of
commissioners may prescribe, for the faithful discharge of the duties imposed
by law and the ordinances of the town, and to faithfully account for all moneys
that may come into his hands from fines, penalties and so forth. The chief
shall have the supervision and control of the police force, and it shall be his
duty to report to the mayor any dereliction of duty on the part of any member
of the police force. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to attend the
mayor’s court each day and report any violations of law or ordinances of the
town, to collect all fines and penalties imposed and pay the same to the town
treasurer, and to execute the orders and judgments of said court, see that the
laws and ordinances of the town are enforced, and to do such other things as
are required of him by the board. The chief of police and each member of the
police force shall have all the power and authority vested in sheriffs and
constables for the preservation of the peace of the town by suppressing
disturbances and apprehending offenders; they shall execute all process
directed to them by the mayor or others, and in the execution thereof shall
have the same power which sheriffs and constables have. The chief and members
of the police force shall take an oath before the mayor for the faithful
performance of the duties required by law and ordinances.
Sec. 24. Fees of chief of police; temporary police.
   The chief of police shall be entitled to and shall receive the fees arising
from the execution of all precepts issued by the mayor or others, which shall
be the same as that of sheriffs and constables for like services. The board of
town commissioners shall pass ordinances for the government and direction of
the police, and fix their compensation. In time of exigency the mayor may
appoint temporary additional policemen for such time as may appear necessary,
not exceeding one week, who shall take the same oath and be subject to the same
control as regular policemen.
Sec. 25. Suspension of police.
   The mayor, at any time, upon charge being preferred, or, upon finding said
chief or any members of said police force guilty of misconduct, shall have
power to suspend such member from service until the board of commissioners
shall convene and take action in the matter, and upon hearing the proofs in the
case the board may discharge or restore such member, and the pay of such member
may, in the discretion of the board, cease from the time of his suspension to
the time of his restoration to service. Any violations of the regulations or
orders of any superior shall be good cause for dismissal, and the mayor shall
suspend the chief or any member of the police force if drunk while on duty.
Sec. 26. Police uniforms; police powers generally.
   The board of commissioners shall require the entire police force to wear
badges, and be so armed and uniformed as to be readily recognized by the public
as peace officers. And the police shall generally have power to do whatever may
be necessary to preserve the good order and peace of the town and secure the
inhabitants from personal violence and their property from loss or injury.
Sec. 27. Weighmaster; inspector; town engineer; town attorney.
   That the said board of commissioners may, in their discretion (as soon after
their election as necessary), appoint a weighmaster, whose duty it shall be to
weigh all merchantable commodities sold in said town; and an inspector, whose
duty shall be to inspect all flour, provisions, forage, and all other
marketable produce in said town in their judgment requiring weighing or
inspecting. And the weighmaster and inspector so appointed shall give bond with
approved security, payable to the Town of Wilkesboro, in an amount to be fixed
by the board, conditioned for the faithful discharge of all duties imposed by
law and the ordinances of the town; and shall take an oath before the mayor
before entering upon their duties. And the board of commissioners shall have
power to remove either of them for misbehavior or neglect or malpractice in
office and appoint a successor, in his stead. And the board of commissioners
are hereby authorized and empowered to regulate the fees to be paid for such
weighing and inspection, and by whom to be paid; and to make all necessary
ordinances for the government of said officers, and to impose fines and
penalties for their violation. They may also appoint a town engineer, a town
attorney and a sanitary policeman, and prescribe the duties of each and fix
their compensation.
Sec. 28. Auctions and auctioneers.
   That the said board of commissioners shall have power, at any time, to elect
one or more auctioneers for the Town of Wilkesboro, who shall give bond, with
approved security, in the sum of one thousand dollars, payable to the State of
North Carolina, conditioned that he will faithfully perform the duties of
auctioneer by law, which said bond shall be filed with the mayor to be by him
safely kept; and when the town commissioners shall have appointed said
auctioneer, and he shall have filed his bond, no person shall exercise the
office of auctioneer in said town except those duly appointed by the board of
commissioners; and the said board may make ordinances regulating auction sales
in said town; and the said auctioneer shall pay as a tax a certain per centum
on all sales, hires and profits made by virtue of his or their office not to
exceed one per centum, to be levied by the board.
Secs. 29 to 37. Omitted.
Sec. 38. License taxes.
   That in addition to the subjects listed for taxation, the commissioners may
levy a tax on the following subjects, the amount of which tax, when fixed,
shall be collected by the town collector immediately, and if the same be not
paid on demand, the same may be recovered by suit on the articles upon which
the tax is imposed, or any other property of the owners may be forthwith
distrained and sold to satisfy the same, viz.:
   1.    Upon all itinerant merchants or peddlers selling or offering to sell
in the town, a tax not exceeding fifty dollars per year, except such only as
selling books, charts or maps.
   2.    On every bowling alley, and every billiard table, and every pool
table, and every bagatelle table, and every other table or gaming contrivance,
the object of which is gain, and for the use of which a charge is made, a tax
not exceeding fifty dollars, reserving the right to remove it or them at any
time as a nuisance.
   3.    On all keepers of eating-houses or restaurants, fish or meat or
vegetable or bread stands or fruiterers, a tax not exceeding twenty-five
dollars per year.
   4.    Upon every company of circus riders who shall exhibit within the town
or with-in one mile thereof, a tax not exceeding one hundred dollars for each
day, the tax to be paid before the exhibition, and if not, to be double.
   5.    Upon every person or company exhibition [exhibiting] in the town stage
or theatrical plays, sleight-of-hand performances, rope-dancing, tumbling,
wire-dancing or menageries, a tax not exceeding fifty dollars for every day
they exhibit.
   6.    Upon every exhibition for reward of artificial curiosities (models of
useful inventions excepted) in the town, a tax not exceeding twenty-five
dollars, to be paid in advance.
   7.    Upon each show or exhibition of any kind, and on each concert for
reward, and on every strolling musician, except for charitable purposes, a tax
not exceeding ten dollars, to be paid before exhibition.
   8.    On every license to sell wines, cordials, malt and spirituous liquors,
a tax not to exceed two hundred dollars, reserving the right in each instance
to levy a tax on wines, malt and spirituous liquors as merchandise.
Sec. 39. Tax levy.
   That taxes for town purposes shall be levied on all real estate and personal
property, trades, licenses and other subjects of taxation as provided in
section three, article five of the State Constitution; that all moneys arising
from taxes, donations or other sources shall be paid to the clerk, and no
appropriation thereof shall be made but by a board constituted of a majority of
all the commissioners.
Sec. 40. Streets and sidewalks.
   That the board of commissioners shall have power to grade, macadamize, pave,
curb and otherwise keep in repair the streets, alleys and sidewalks, to lay out
and open new streets, widen those already open, build and repair bridges within
the corporate limits, construct a system of sewerage or drainage and make such
other improvements in the streets as the public convenience may require.
Sec. 41. Condemnation of land.
   That when any land or right of way shall be required for the purpose of
opening new streets or for widening those already opened for other objects
allowed by this Charter, and for want of agreement as to the value thereof, the
same cannot be purchased from the owner or owners, the same may be taken at a
valuation to be made by three freeholders of the town, to be chosen, one by the
land-owner and one by the commissioners, which two so chosen shall choose the
third freeholder, or if the land-owner shall refuse or fail to choose one of
the freeholders as above directed, the town commissioners may choose two, who
shall select the third; and in making said valuation, said freeholders, after
being duly sworn by the mayor or justice of the peace or clerk of a court of
record, shall take into consideration the loss or damage which may accrue to
the owner in consequence of the land or right of way being surrendered; also
any benefit or advantage such owner may receive from the opening or widening
such street or other improvements, and ascertain the sum which shall be paid to
the owner of said property, and report the same to the board of commissioners
under their hands and seals; which report, on being confirmed by the board and
spread upon their minutes, shall have the effect of a judgment against said
board of commissioners, and shall pass the title to the board of commissioners,
in their corporate capacity, of the land so taken: Provided, that if any person
over whose land the said street may pass or improvements be erected, or the
commissioners, be dissatisfied with the valuation thus made, then, in that
case, either party may have an appeal to the next superior court: Provided,
however, that such appeal shall not hinder or delay the commissioners opening
or widening such street or erecting such improvements.
Sec. 42. Cemeteries.
   That the board of commissioners shall have power to purchase suitable land
for public cemeteries at a convenient distance from the center of the town;
that they may cause the same to be laid out in lots and kept in proper repair,
and regulate the terms and manner in which bodies may be interred therein. They
may sell the exclusive privilege of burial in any given plot and execute a deed
for the same, and the moneys so realized may be expended under the direction of
the board in beautifying, extending and keeping said grounds. Suitable
provision shall also be made for the interment of the poor.
Sec. 43. Fire companies; fire limits.
   That they may provide for the establishment, organization and equipment,
government and pay of such number of fire companies as they shall deem
necessary and proper. And in case of a fire occurring in said town, the mayor,
or, in his absence, a majority of the commissioners who may be present, may
order the blowing up or pulling down or destroying any house or houses deemed
necessary to stop the progress of the fire, and no person shall be held liable,
civilly or criminally, for acting in such case in obedience to such orders.
They shall also have power to establish fire limits within said town within
which it shall not be lawful for any person to erect or build any wooden house,
make any wooden addition to any building or cover any building with any
material other than metal or slate; they may prohibit wooden buildings from
being removed from without into said fire limits, or from being removed from
one place to another within the same, under such penalties as the board of
commissioners may establish, and such penalty may be sued for and recovered
from the owner in an action of debt in any court having jurisdiction.
Sec. 44. Additional miscellaneous powers of board of commissioners.
   That they shall have power to make ordinances to prohibit or control the
firing of fire-arms, fire-crackers, torpedoes and other explosive material, and
to govern the sale thereof in the town; the pace and speed at which horses may
be ridden or driven through the streets; the speed at which railroad engines
and trains shall run within the town limits; to prohibit said railroad from
stopping their engines or cars on said streets, and to require said railroads
to keep the street crossings in good repair; the manner in which powder and
other explosive and inflammable substances may be kept and sold; the manner in
which commercial fertilizers may be stored; the manner in which dogs and hogs
may be kept, and to prevent them from running at large in said town; to cause
all alleys, cellars, lots, privies, stables, sties and other places of like
character to be examined by a sanitary policeman to be appointed for that
purpose. It shall be their duty, on complaint, to cause, by their order, the
sanitary policeman to have said places cleaned and the nuisance abated, and the
said sanitary policeman, or any other person appointed by the board and charged
with that duty, shall have authority to enter the premises described to be in
bad order and inspect and have the same cleaned; and the expense of abating
such nuisance shall be recovered from the occupant or owner of said premises by
action of debt in any court having competent jurisdiction.
Sec. 45. Nuisances.
   They shall have power, and it shall be their duty, to prohibit all trades or
occupations which are a nuisance from being carried on in said town. They shall
have power, and it shall be their duty, to cause all ponds, sunken lots and
other places in which water stands and stagnates to be drained and filled up,
and to recover from the owner or occupant the expense as above, which expense
shall be a lien on the lot: Provided, the owner or occupant of said lot, after
ten days notice, shall neglect or refuse to remove or abate said nuisance. They
shall have authority to cause all nuisances arising from any cause within the
town limits to be removed or abated, and for the removing or abating any such
nuisance the persons creating the same shall pay the expenses as above
required.
Sec. 46. Street and market sales.
   That the said board shall have power to regulate the manner in which
provisions and all other articles shall be sold in the streets and markets of
said town, and to regulate the manner in which the streets and markets of said
town may be used and kept.
Sec. 47. Alcoholic beverages.
   That the board of commissioners shall have power to grant and cancel license
to sell wines, malt or spirituous liquors within said town to any persons to
whom they may think proper: Provided, the person to whom the license is issued
shall pay first such tax as may be imposed by the board, and give bond for one
thousand dollars, with approved security, conditioned for the keeping of an
orderly and lawful house, and no person shall be permitted to sell wine, malt
or spirituous liquors within said town unless licensed by the town
commissioners.
Sec. 48. Fines and penalties.
   That all fines and penalties imposed by this act, or which are or may be
imposed by the ordinances of said town or the laws of the state, when tried and
recovered before the mayor of said town, shall be paid to the town clerk for
the use of said town.
Sec. 49. Conflicts of interest.
   That no mayor or commissioner, or other officer of said town, shall directly
or indirectly become a contractor for work to be done for the town, and any
person herein offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 50. Public buildings.
   That they may establish all public buildings necessary and proper for the
town, and prevent the erection and establishment of wooden buildings in any
part of the town where they may increase the danger of fire.
Sec. 51. Penalties for violation of ordinances generally.
   That for the violation of any ordinance or by-law made by said board of
commissioners they may prescribe penalties not exceeding fifty dollars for each
offense, to be recovered before the mayor without stay of process, mesne or
final; and when judgment shall be given for any such penalty the party
convicted may, unless the penalty and cost be paid, be immediately committed to
jail for the space of thirty days or until payment thereof be made.
Sec. 52. Recovery of penalties.
   That all penalties imposed by law relating to the town, or by this act, by
any ordinance of the town, shall be recoverable in the name of the Town of
Wilkesboro, before the mayor or other tribunal having jurisdiction thereof.
Sec. 53. Omitted.
Sec. 54. Violation of ordinance a misdemeanor.
   That any person or persons violating any ordinance of the town shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the provisions of
chapter sixty-two of the code, volume two, entitled “towns and cities.”
Sec. 55. No increase or diminution of salary during term.
   That the salary or pay of no officer elected or appointed under this Charter
shall be increased or diminished during the time for which he is elected or
appointed.
Sec. 56. Vagrants.
   Any person who may be able to labor and who has no apparent means of
subsistence, and neglects to apply himself to some honest occupation for the
support of himself and family, or if any person shall be found spending his
time in dissipation or gaming, or sauntering about without employment, or
endeavoring to maintain himself or his family by any undue or unlawful means,
such person shall be deemed a vagrant and guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty
days, and the offense shall be cognizable before the mayor of said town, who
may release the party on his giving a recognizance, with security, for his
industrious and peaceable deportment for one year or less from the date
thereof, or may also impose on him a punishment not to exceed that above
mentioned. And the said mayor may cause such person or persons to be farmed out
to work the public streets or other public work of said town as set out in
section fourteen of this act.
Sec. 57. Omitted.
Sec. 58. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   That all laws or parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed, and that this act shall take effect from and after its ratification.
   Ratified the 11th day of March, A. D. 1889.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Supplementation of code
   
10.19   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalties; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Wilkesboro shall be
designated as the Code of Wilkesboro, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Mayor and Commissioners, or governing body,
of the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Wilkes, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of persons or
officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a bold,
italicized heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized, bold and
italicized heading in the body of the chapter, setting apart a group of
sections related by the subject matter of the heading. Not all chapters have
SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Wilkesboro, in the County of Wilkes, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Board of Commissioners.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal,
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina,
is hereby amended as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in
full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number,
as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the code shall include all
substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of
Commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate headings and titles for sections and other
subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections_____to_____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and/or
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(1997 Code § 1-8)
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit of the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Administration. 
      (1)   Unless a greater amount is specified herein, an act constituting a
violation of the provisions of this code or a failure to comply with any of its
requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100, which
includes administrative fees. Each day any single violation continues shall be
a separate violation. Unless expressly stated otherwise in a chapter or
appendix, a violation of this code shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant
to G.S. § 14-4. If the offender fails to correct this violation by the
prescribed deadline after being notified of said violation, the penalty may be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of
Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and
it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief
that there is an adequate remedy at law.
      (3)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (4)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures
on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable town
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he may be
cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The town
shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
      (5)   The provisions of any town ordinance may be enforced by one, all,
or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   This section sets forth the procedures to be followed in enforcing
the provisions of the code of ordinances. They shall be utilized unless an
individual ordinance codified herein has different procedures, in which event
the procedures of the individual ordinance shall be followed.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of any town
ordinance, upon determination of a violation of any section of a town
ordinance, the enforcement official of the town shall cause a warning citation
to be issued to the violator. Such warning citation shall be issued either in
person or posted in the United States mail service by first class mail
addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the records
of the county. Such warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation,
the section violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to
immediately cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of an
infraction for which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil
proceeding, a reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation
must be abated. The warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall
incur a civil penalty, together with costs, and attorney fees.
      (3)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within 10 days
from the date of said warning citation by filing with the enforcement official
and with the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Except in any case where the ordinance
violated, which is the subject of the warning citation, specifically grants to
the Board of Adjustment other powers in considering appeals and such appeal is
applied for, the Board of Adjustment in considering appeals of warning
citations shall have power only in the manner of administrative review and
interpretation where it is alleged that the enforcement official has made an
error in the application of an ordinance, in the factual situation as it
relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
      (4)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the
period of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for
abatement based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement
official may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
      (5)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation may be issued by the enforcement official, either served directly on
the violator, his duly designated agent, or registered agent if a corporation,
either in person or posted in the United States mail service by first class
mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the
records of the county or obtained from the violator at the time of issuance of
the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the
mailing of said citation. The citation shall direct the violator to appear
before the Town Manager of the town, or designee, within 15 days of the date of
the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by mail. The violation for
which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the time the citation
is paid, otherwise further citations shall be issued. Citations may be issued
for each day the offense continues until the prohibited activity is ceased or
abated.
      (6)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of
its issuance, and pay the penally prescribed therein, the town may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the North
Carolina General Court of Justice for the collection of the penalty, costs,
attorney fees, and such other relief as permitted by law.
(Am. Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-9-2013)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT
         
31.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
         
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
         
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
         
35.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Conflicts of interest; claims/warrants not to be purchased
   
30.02   Ex officio officers; appointive officers
   
30.03   Acting officers
   
30.04   Authority of deputies, assistants and other subordinates
   
30.05   Bond required of certain town officers, employees and agents
   
30.06   Preparation of budget
   
30.07   Removal from office or position held
   
30.08   Town employees; use of vehicles
   
30.09   Nondiscrimination policy
Specific Offices
   
30.20   Mayor
   
30.21   Town Clerk
   
30.22   Town Accountant; term, qualifications, powers and duties
   
30.23   Treasurer
   
30.24   Tax Collector
   
30.25   Town Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; CLAIMS/WARRANTS NOT TO BE PURCHASED.
   No officer or employee of the town shall have any interest (other than as a
citizen) in any town contract for materials or services; and no officer or
employee of the town shall buy any warrant issued by the town for less than its
face value; a violation of this section shall subject the offender to a
forfeiture of his or her office or position.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
§ 30.02 EX OFFICIO OFFICERS; APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
    The Wilkesboro Mayor, Town Manager and Finance Officer shall serve as non-
voting ex officio members and the immediate past chairman shall serve as a non-
voting ex officio member.
(Prior Code, § 2-28) (Am. Res. 2017-38, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 30.03 ACTING OFFICERS.
   Whenever an appointive officer of the town is absent from town, disabled or
otherwise unavailable to perform the duties of his or her office under
circumstances not creating a vacancy in the office, the appointing authority
may designate another appropriate appointive officer to exercise the powers and
perform the duties of an unavailable officer during the interim, and the
appointing authority shall report the designation to the Board of Commissioners
at its next regular meeting for action as the Board may consider appropriate.
Any officer so designated shall have the title of the office temporarily held
by him or her, with the word acting preceding the title, as, for example,
acting Tax Collector. Acting officers shall give bond in cases for which bond
is required of the permanent officers in whose places they act.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
Statutory reference:
   General law as to general qualifications of town officers, see G.S. § 160A-
60
§ 30.04 AUTHORITY OF DEPUTIES, ASSISTANTS AND OTHER SUBORDINATES.
   Authority vested in and duties imposed upon town officers by state law, the
Town Charter, this code and other ordinances and resolutions of the Board of
Commissioners may, when they so authorize, be exercised or performed by their
deputies, assistants and other subordinates to the extent not prohibited by
state law, this code or other ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-30)
§ 30.05 BOND REQUIRED OF CERTAIN TOWN OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS.
   (A)   Every officer, employee or agent of the town who handles or has
custody of more than $100 of the town’s funds at any time shall, before
assuming his or her duties, be required to enter into bond with good sureties,
in an amount sufficient to protect the town, payable to the town and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties and a true
accounting for all funds of the town which may come into his or her hands,
custody or control, which bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Board of
Commissioners and deposited with the town, except that the bond of any employee
may, in the discretion of the Board, be conditioned only upon a true accounting
for funds of the town.
   (B)   The bond of the Treasurer shall be in an amount not less than $25,000;
the bond of the Tax Collector shall be in an amount not less than $25,000; and
all other persons required to be bonded under the provisions of division (A) of
this section shall be bonded under a system of blanket faithful performance or
honesty bonding in the amount of not less than $10,000.
   (C)   All bonds required by this section shall be approved as to form by the
Town Attorney, and the sureties thereon shall be bonding or casualty companies
licensed to do business in the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
§ 30.06 PREPARATION OF BUDGET.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk, with the assistance of the other
town officials, to file with the Town Accountant on or before May 1 of each
year information as to allow the Accountant to prepare a proper budget.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
§ 30.07 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE OR POSITION HELD.
   Any officer or employee for whom the Mayor or head of a department or office
may appoint a successor, may be removed by the Mayor or other appointing
officer at any time. Subject to the authority of the Board of Commissioners,
the decision of the Mayor or other appointing officer shall be final and there
shall be no appeal therefrom to any other office, body or court whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)
Statutory reference:
   Fidelity bonds, see G.S. § 159-29
§ 30.08 TOWN EMPLOYEES; USE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Town Board adopts as a matter of policy, that all persons employed
by the Town of Wilkesboro who use a vehicle belonging to the town to go to and
from the place of employment to their home and return, shall pay to the Town of
Wilkesboro the going rate as determined by the IRS per mile; that each person
who uses a vehicle to drive to and from his or her home to work, and for his or
her personal use, shall be required to keep daily log of the milage; and at the
end of the month, turn the daily log into the Town Clerk and Town Manager. It
shall be the duty of the Town Manager to check the logs at the end of the
months and see that the proper log has been kept and turn the same over to the
Town Clerk. The amount shall be charged to the employee at the end of each
month. The Clerk of the Town Board shall be required to keep the logs on file
for check and examination by the auditors of the Town of Wilkesboro in order
that they may see that the proper charge has been made to the employee’s
account.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1985)
   (B)   The personal use of a town owned vehicle for purely personal use is
strictly prohibited, and in the course of events that the employee is required
to answer emergency calls during the entire 24-hour period of a day, there
shall be no charge imposed on the use of the vehicle, but it shall be the duty
of the employee to whom the vehicle is issued to keep the same clean and to
take care of the vehicle. Employees’ failure to take care of the vehicle in an
adequate manner shall be sufficient cause to revoke the issuance of the vehicle
to the employee in the discretion of the Town Manager. Should the issue of the
vehicle be revoked by the Town Manager, the employee shall have a right to
appeal the same to the Town Board of Commissioners, whose findings shall be
final. No person who is not an employee or agent of the Town of Wilkesboro can
be transported in the vehicle belonging to the town.
   (C)   Since the employee is required to have the vehicle with him or her and
answer calls, and where it is his or her duty to answer calls, such as the
restoring of electricity, cutting off (on) water, water line repairs, sewer
line repairs or street repairs, and the vehicle assigned to the employee is
used in connection with these or other emergency repairs or emergency visits,
there shall be no charge imposed on the use of the vehicle. The use of the
vehicle is not likely to be used more than a minimum amount in going to and
from the job to the residence.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to use any vehicle belonging to the Town of
Wilkesboro for personal use, other than to go to and from work. Any use other
than for authorized purposes shall be sufficient grounds to terminate the use
of the vehicle in the discretion of the Town Manager. Any use of the vehicle
assigned to an employee where the employee is on call at all hours of the day
and night shall be considered a minimal use so long as the vehicle is not used
for any other personal use than to go to and from his or her place of abode to
his or her work by the person who is on call at all hours of the day and night.
   (E)   The assignment of any town owned vehicle to an employee who has the
option of driving the vehicle to and from home must be approved the Town Board
of Commissioners.
   (F)   The Chief of Police, the Town Manager, Water Superintendent, Sewer
Superintendent, Recreation Director, Street Superintendent, Water Meter
Repairman and Police Detective, and any other persons who are assigned a
vehicle for the specific duties, shall be used by them as going to and from
their place of abode to their job, shall be considered to be no more than a
minimal amount for personal use and exempt from the code.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1985) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 30.09 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   Title VI assurances. The provisions of this section related to United
States Department of Transportation (US DOT) Order 1050.2A, Title 49 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) part 21, 23 United States Code (U.S.C.) 140 and 23
CFR part 200 (or 49 CFR 303, 49 U.S.C. 5332 or 49 U.S.C. 47123) are applicable
to all Town of Wilkesboro contracts and to all related subcontracts, material
supply, engineering, architectural and other service contracts, regardless of
dollar amount. Any federal provision that is specifically required not
specifically set forth is hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Town of Wilkesboro Title VI assurance. For the duration of the
contract, the contractor, its assignees, and successors agrees in full to:
      (1)   Compliance with regulations. The contractor will comply with the
acts and the regulations relative to nondiscrimination in federally assisted
programs of the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA), including all updates and amendments to said policy.
      (2)   Nondiscrimination. The contractor, with regard to the work
performed for the extent of the contract, will not discriminate on the grounds
outlined in civil rights law, including race, color, or national origin. The
contractor will not participate directly or indirectly in the discrimination
prohibited by the acts and the regulations, including employment practices when
the contract covers any activity, project, or program funded by the Town of
Wilkesboro or the FHWA through the Town of Wilkesboro.
      (3)   Solicitations for subcontractors, including procurements of
materials and equipment. In all solicitations, either by competitive bidding,
or negotiation made by the contractor for work to be performed under a
subcontract, including procurements of materials, or leases of equipment, each
potential subcontractor or supplier will be notified by the contractor of the
contractor's obligations under this contract and the acts and the regulations
relative to nondiscrimination on the grounds of race, color, or national
origin.
      (4)   Information and reports. The contractor will provide all
information and reports required by the acts, the regulations, and directives
issued pursuant thereto and will permit access to its books, records, accounts,
other sources of information, and its facilities as may be determined by the
recipient or the FHWA to be pertinent to ascertain compliance with such acts,
regulations, and instructions. Where any information required of a contractor
is in the exclusive possession of another who fails or refuses to furnish the
information, the contractor will so certify to the recipient or the FHWA, as
appropriate, and will set forth what efforts it bas made to obtain the
information.
      (5)   Sanctions for noncompliance. In the event of a contractor's
noncompliance with the nondiscrimination provisions of this contract, the
recipient will impose such contract sanctions as it or the FHWA may determine
to be appropriate, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Withholding payments to the contractor under the contract until
the contractor complies; and/or
         (b)   Cancelling, terminating, or suspending a contract, in whole or
in part.
      (6)   Incorporation of provisions. The contractor will include the
provisions of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(6) in every subcontract, including
procurements of materials and leases of equipment, unless exempt by the acts,
the regulations and directives issued pursuant thereto. The contractor will
take action with respect to any subcontract or procurement as the recipient or
the FHWA may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions including sanctions
for noncompliance. Provided, that if the contractor becomes involved in, or is
threatened with litigation by a subcontractor, or supplier because of such
direction, the contractor may request the recipient to enter into any
litigation to protect the interests of the recipient. In addition, the
contractor may request the United States to enter into the litigation to
protect the interests of the United States.
   (C)   During the performance of this contract, the contractor, its
assignees, and successors in interest agrees to comply with the following
nondiscrimination statutes and authorities; including but not limited to:
pertinent nondiscrimination authorities.
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d et
seq., 78 stat. 252), (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color,
national origin); and 49 CFR Part 21.
      (2)   The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act of 1970, (42 U.S.C. § 4601), (prohibits unfair treatment of
persons displaced or whose property has been acquired because of federal or
federal-aid programs and projects).
      (3)   Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973, (23 U.S.C. §§ 324 et seq.),
(prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex).
      (4)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. §§ 794 et
seq.), as amended, (prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability); and
49 CFR Part 27.
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. §§ 6101
et seq.), (prohibits discrimination on the basis of age).
      (6)   Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, (49 USC Chapter 471, §
47123), as amended, (prohibits discrimination based on race, creed, color,
national origin, or sex).
      (7)   The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, (PL 100-209), (broadened
the scope, coverage and applicability of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973, by expanding the definition of the terms "programs or activities" to
include all of the programs or activities of the federal-aid recipients, sub-
recipients and contractors, whether such programs or activities are federally
funded or not).
      (8)   Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, which
prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in the operation of public
entities, public and private transportation systems, places of public
accommodation, and certain testing entities (42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 through 12189)
as implemented by Department of Transportation regulations at 49 CFR. parts 37
and 38.
      (9)   The Federal Aviation Administration's Nondiscrimination statute (49
U.S.C. § 47123) (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national
origin, and sex).
      (10)   Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental
Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations, which ensures
nondiscrimination against minority populations by discouraging programs, two
policies, and activities with disproportionately high and adverse human health
or environmental effects on minority and low-income populations.
      (11)   Executive Order 13166, Improving Access to Services for Persons
with Limited English Proficiency, and resulting agency guidance, national
origin discrimination includes discrimination because of limited English
proficiency (LEP). To ensure compliance with Title VI, you must take reasonable
steps to ensure that LEP persons have meaningful access to your programs (70
Fed. Reg. at §§ 74087 to 74100).
      (12)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended, which
prohibits you from discriminating because of sex in education programs or
activities (20 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq).
   (D)   NCDOT Title VI Nondiscrimination Program (23 CFR 200.5(p)). The Town
of Wilkesboro has assured the US DOT and NC DOT that, as a condition to
receiving federal financial assistance, the Town of Wilkesboro will comply with
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and all requirements imposed by Title
49 CFR part 21 and related nondiscrimination authorities to ensure that no
person shall, on the ground of race, color, national origin, limited English
proficiency, income-level, sex, age, or disability, (or religion, where
applicable) be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any programs, activities, or services
conducted or funded by The Town of Wilkesboro. Contractors and other
organizations under contract or agreement with The Town of Wilkesboro must also
comply with Title VI and related authorities, therefore:
      (1)   During the performance of this contract or agreement, contractors
(e.g., subcontractors, consultants, vendors, prime contractors) are responsible
for complying with the Town of Wilkesboro's Title VI Program. Contractors are
not required to prepare or submit Title VI Programs (USDOJ Title VI Legal
Manual, VI(F)).
      (2)   Subrecipients may be required to prepare and submit a Title VI
Program to the Town of Wilkesboro, which may include Title VI Nondiscrimination
Assurances and/or agreements (23 CFR 200.9(b)(7)).
      (3)   If reviewed or investigated by the Town of Wilkesboro or funding
entity, the contractor or subrecipient agrees to take affirmative action to
correct any deficiencies found within a reasonable time period, which is not to
exceed 90 calendar days, unless additional time is granted (23 CFR 200.9(b)
(l5)).
   (E)   Town of Wilkesboro Title VI nondiscrimination policy statement.
      (1)   It is the policy of the Town of Wilkesboro that itself, and any
entity contracted to provide a service for the Town of Wilkesboro, shall not be
exclusionary on the basis of sex, race, color, nation of origin, English
proficiency, income, age, or disability. The Town of Wilkesboro seeks to
provide fair access to all benefits, services, and goods to all residents and
business owners. These standards are protected under Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, United States Department of Transportation order 1050.02A,
Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations Part 21, the Civil Rights Restoration Act
of 1987, and other pertinent nondiscrimination authorities.
      (2)   All Town of Wilkesboro employees and contractors are strongly
compelled to abide by, at the minimum standard, the Title VI guidelines set
forth in this document. Furthermore, the following behaviors, actions, and
practices are to be prohibited by the Town of Wilkesboro and all contractors
through the Town of Wilkesboro.
         (a)   Denying any person(s) a service or good regularly provided by
the Town of Wilkesboro to its citizens;
         (b)   Providing any person(s) a service or good which is distinct in
its level of quality or quantity, or in any way in a differing manner;
         (c)   The act of intimidation, coercion, retaliation, or threatening
of any person(s) with the purpose of dissuading services, goods, or rights to
that person(s);
         (d)   Restrictions to access of goods, services, or rights to any
person(s);
         (e)   Restrictive methodology in the administration of goods,
services, and their accessibility.
To ensure these standards are properly applied and upheld, I have assigned:
Employee name:                                   
Employee title:                                     
Whom can be contacted at:
Employee phone:                                 
Employee email:                                  
In order to show the Town of Wilkesboro's support for this policy initiative.
Signed:                                              
Dated:                                               
   (F)   Town of Wilkesboro Title VI grievance procedure. The policies and
procedures included below are the processes and requirements in which the Town
of Wilkesboro will process grievances regarding alleged discrimination against
individuals by the Town of Wilkesboro.
      (1)   Applicability. Policies and procedures are applicable to members of
the public who could apply or receive services or goods from the Town of
Wilkesboro.
      (2)   Eligibility. Any persons who believes they have been discriminated
against on the basis outlined in civil rights law of one's race, color,
national origin, sex, age, or disability and in which these characteristics
affect the individual not receiving services or goods from the Town of
Wilkesboro.
      (3)   Time limits and filing options. Complaints must be received within
180 days of the alleged act/or becoming aware of the act of discrimination.
      (4)   Filing of complaints. The Town of Wilkesboro, 203 W. Main Street,
Wilkesboro, NC 28697 or by phone at (336)-838- 3951.
      (5)   Format for complaints. Complaints alleging discrimination by the
Town of Wilkesboro must be submitted in writing and signed by the complainant
in a letter which includes the name, address, and phone number of the
complainant. Submitting a printed letter or email is acceptable. If submitting
a complaint via telephone, the complainant's statement will be transcribed as
to provide fair and equitable access to all.
   Town of Wilkesboro Complaint Procedure
Name:                                                     
Address:                                                  
Phone number:                                         
Email address:                                          
Date and place of alleged act of discrimination:
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                            
Name of individuals responsible for act:
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Please outline how you were treated differently from other citizens:
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
The law prohibits retaliation to allegations of discrimination, if you feel you
have been retaliated against - please outline the circumstances below:
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Please provide any additional information that could be useful in our
investigation and any witnesses below:
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Please explain what course of action you are seeking to resolve the issue:
                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                              
Signature:                                               
Date:                                                      
(Res. 2021-02, passed 1-11-2021)
SPECIFIC OFFICES
§ 30.20 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be recognized as the official head of the town government.
In addition to the powers and duties specified for the Mayor in the Town
Charter and the General Statutes of North Carolina, the Mayor shall have other
powers and perform other duties as may be specified for him or her from time to
time by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Commissioners not in conflict
with the charter or general laws or this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-34)
§ 30.21 TOWN CLERK.
   In addition to the powers and duties specified for the Town Clerk in the
Town Charter and the General Statutes of North Carolina, the Town Clerk shall
receive all communications addressed to or requiring action by the Board of
Commissioners and all claims against the town, and he or she shall have other
powers and perform other duties as may be specified for him or her from time to
time by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Commissioners not in conflict
with the charter or general laws or this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-35)
§ 30.22 TOWN ACCOUNTANT; TERM, QUALIFICATIONS, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners following each
general election of Commissioners, the Board shall designate the Town Clerk to
be ex officio Town Accountant, or the Board shall appoint some other person to
be Town Accountant, to serve at the will of the Board; provided that the
experience, training and qualifications of any person on whom the powers and
duties of the Town Accountant are imposed and conferred by or under this
section shall be approved by the local government commission of the state,
which approval shall continue until revoked by the Commission. If any person
upon whom the powers and duties of the Town Accountant are imposed and
conferred is a Tax Collecting Officer of the town, it shall be the duty of the
Board of Commissioners to require all his or her books and accounts to be
audited at least annually by a certified public accountant or by a public
accountant registered under G.S. Chapter 93.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
   (B)   The Town Accountant shall have the powers and perform the duties
vested in and imposed upon municipal accountants by the General Statutes of
North Carolina; and he or she shall have other powers and perform other duties,
not inconsistent with state law, the Town Charter, this code or other ordinance
as may be specified by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-37)
§ 30.23 TREASURER.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall give a receipt for all money received by him or
her and he or she shall deposit the money each day in a depository authorized
by the Board of Commissioners for that purpose; provided that the Treasurer
need not make daily deposits when he or she has less than $250 of town money in
his or her possession or custody. The Treasurer shall render to the Board of
Commissioners once each month a full statement of his or her receipts and
disbursements, and he or she shall, within 30 days following the end of each
fiscal year, render to the Board of Commissioners a complete report of his or
her financial transactions during the preceding fiscal year. Prior to the
payment by him or her of any claim or account the Treasurer shall examine it to
ascertain that it is due and that payment thereof has been duly authorized. The
Treasurer shall cooperate with the Tax Collector in the collection of taxes,
and he or she shall perform other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by
law, the Town Charter, this code or the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-38)
§ 30.24 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Tax Collector shall collect all real and personal property taxes and all
capitation or poll taxes due the town; and, where no other town officer is
designated by state law or this code or other ordinance to collect license and
business privilege taxes, the Tax Collector shall collect taxes and issue
licenses. The Tax Collector shall pay over to the Treasurer each day all money
collected by him or her for the town and render to the Treasurer a statement
showing the source of each sum so collected and the purpose thereof. He or she
shall issue a receipt to each person from whom he or she makes collection, and
shall keep accurate records of all collections in accord with directive of the
Town Accountant. The Tax Collector shall perform other duties as may be imposed
upon him or her by law, this code or by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
§ 30.25 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney shall attend each meeting of the Board of Commissioners;
he or she shall prosecute and defend suits for and against the town and for and
against town officers acting in their official capacity; he or she shall
approve all official bonds as to form; he or she shall approve all draft
ordinances as to form, and, at the request of any commissioner, he or she shall
approve any draft resolution as to form; he or she shall draft or approve all
deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the business of the town; he
or she shall advise the Mayor and Board of Commissioners, and other town
officers, as to the legality and legal consequences of proposed courses of
action; and, in general, the Town Attorney shall be the legal counselor of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Duty of Tax Collector to collect license taxes and to issue licenses, see
G.S. § 105-33
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
31.01   Meetings
   
31.02   Presiding officer
   
31.03   When Mayor shall vote
   
31.04   Conduct of meetings; order, appeals
   
31.05   Order of business at regular meetings; when presentation of resolution
required
   
31.06   Applications and petitions to Board
   
31.07   Motions
   
31.08   Previous question; when record vote required
   
31.09   Members required to vote unless excused
   
31.10   Points of order
   
31.11   Certain matters to be acted upon only at regular meetings; exceptions
   
31.12   Reconsideration of decisions made and votes taken
   
31.13   Ordinances and resolutions; requirements
   
31.14   Voting at board elections
   
31.15   Sergeant at arms
   
31.16   Committees
   
31.17   Rules
   
31.18   Nonpartisan plurality
Cross-references:
   Town government, see Charter, § 2
§ 31.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   There shall be a regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners on the
first Monday of each month, in the Town Hall, at an hour as the Commissioners
may fix by resolution; provided, that when the first Monday of any month falls
upon a holiday, the Board may, by resolution or motion, fix another day for the
meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Mayor or by any 2 of
the Commissioners; and the Mayor and each Commissioner, not joining in the
call, shall be notified of the meeting and the purposes thereof, and no
business shall be transacted at that meeting other than that stated in the
call.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 31.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners. In the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall
preside; and if both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore are absent, the
Commissioners shall designate one of their own number to preside.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 31.03 WHEN MAYOR SHALL VOTE.
   The Mayor shall have the right to vote only in case of a tie vote of the
Commissioners present upon any question, but shall not be allowed to vote in
any other case.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
   Meetings of governing body, see G.S. § 160A-71
   Presiding officer at meetings of Board of Commissioners, see G.S. § 160A-69
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 31.04 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS; ORDER; APPEALS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the Board of Commissioners,
the presiding officer shall take the chair and direct a call of the members by
the Clerk, who shall take note of the absentees, and, upon the appearance of a
quorum the presiding officer shall call the Board to order and proceed with the
order of business; but if a quorum shall fail to attend, the meeting shall
stand adjourned to a time agreed upon by a majority of the members present;
provided that the members present may direct the sergeant at arms to apprehend
absentees and bring them to the meeting place forthwith.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum at all times.
He or she shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal to the entire
Board present. On every appeal from his or her decision, he or she shall have
the right in his or her chair to assign his or her reasons for his or her
decision, and any member of the Board may state the grounds for his or her
appeal, but no other debate shall be allowed on an appeal from the presiding
officer’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
§ 31.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS AT REGULAR MEETINGS; WHEN PRESENTATION OF RESOLUTION
REQUIRED.
   (A)   At each regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners the order of
business shall be as follows:
      (1)   Reading the proceedings of the last regular meeting and other
special meetings, if any have been held;
      (2)   Correction of the minutes if necessary, their approval, and when
approved, the minutes shall be signed by the presiding officer and the Clerk;
      (3)   Consideration of unfinished business appearing upon the minutes
from last or any other previous meeting;
      (4)   Reports from the regular standing committees, in their regular
order as named in their appointment;
      (5)   Reports from any special committees theretofore appointed;
      (6)   Reading of petitions, memorials and other papers addressed to the
Mayor and Board of Commissioners; and
      (7)   Consideration of any new business brought before the Board.
   (B)   Deviations from the foregoing order of business shall be permitted
only by unanimous consent of the Commissioners present.
(Prior Code, § 2-11)
   (C)   The reports of all committees requiring definite consideration and
action by the Board of Commissioners shall be in writing and shall be received
without motion for acceptance, and all reports recommending any action or
expression of opinion by the Board shall be accompanied by a corresponding
written resolution embodying the action or opinion required.
(Prior Code, § 2-12)
§ 31.06 APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS TO BOARD.
   All applications and petitions to the Board of Commissioners shall be
subject to any motion which any member of the Board may think proper to make,
and all applications and petitions must be in writing and handed to the Clerk
of the Board, who shall present them to the Board when called for in the
regular order of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)
§ 31.07 MOTIONS.
   No motion shall be considered or put before the Board of Commissioners until
seconded, and when seconded the motion shall be stated distinctly by the
presiding officer before being debated, and upon request of the presiding
officer, or any member of the Board, the motion shall be reduced to writing by
the member offering it. It may be withdrawn at any time before decision,
commitment or amendment by unanimous consent of the Board, upon request of the
member offering it.
(Prior Code, § 2-14)
§ 31.08 PREVIOUS QUESTION; WHEN RECORD VOTE REQUIRED.
   The previous question, on any matter under consideration, may be put to the
Board of Commissioners when demanded by a majority of the Commissioners
present, when all debates on the matter shall cease and a vote on the question
shall be taken. The ayes and nays on any question voted upon shall be taken
when demanded by any member present; and the vote when the ayes and nays are
called for shall be recorded giving the vote of each member of the Board, which
vote shall be regularly recorded in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-15)
§ 31.09 MEMBERS REQUIRED TO VOTE UNLESS EXCUSED.
   Every Commissioner, and the Mayor in the case of a tie vote, shall vote when
a question is put by the presiding officer, unless excused by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)
§ 31.10 POINTS OF ORDER.
   Any member of the Board of Commissioners may be called to order, in which
case the member so called to order shall immediately sit down. The point of
order shall then be stated at the request of the presiding officer, by the
member raising it and point of order so raised shall be decided by the chair
without debate and before proceeding to other business.
(Prior Code, § 2-17)
§ 31.11 CERTAIN MATTERS TO BE ACTED UPON ONLY AT REGULAR MEETINGS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No proposition to appropriate money, to alter or repeal any ordinance or to
establish any new rule, shall be made or decided at any other than the regular
meeting; except by a vote of 3/4 of the Commissioners present, and at no time
except by a majority of the whole Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-18)
§ 31.12 RECONSIDERATION OF DECISIONS MADE AND VOTES TAKEN.
   No question decided by the Board of Commissioners shall be reversed at any
subsequent meeting, except by a vote of 2/3 of the Commissioners present. A
motion to reconsider a vote shall not be in order except at the same, or any
adjourned meeting to that at which the vote is taken, or upon notice by 1
voting with the majority on the question, that a motion to reconsider will be
made at the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
§ 31.13 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All proposed ordinances and resolutions shall be submitted in writing,
signed by the proposer thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-20)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners to
turn over to the Mayor the original copies of all ordinances and resolutions of
a permanent character that may be adopted by the Board, after having
transcribed them on the town minute book along with the proceedings of the
meeting at which they were adopted, the copies to be signed by the Mayor and
returned to the Clerk to be filed and preserved by him or her; and the Clerk of
the Board of Commissioners shall prepare ordinance and resolution books in
which shall be copied ordinances and resolutions.
   (C)   Ordinances and resolutions shall be set out on the left-hand pages of
the books in which they are entered, and the right-hand pages facing the
ordinances and resolutions so entered shall be left blank for the purpose of
noting therein all changes, amendments and repeals thereof. The books shall be
kept in the possession of the Clerk, and by him or her kept annotated after
each and every meeting of the Board at which there is a change or repeal of any
ordinance or resolution, or any new ordinance or resolution adopted, so that
they may be easily referred to and reveal the current status and text of each
ordinance and resolution at all times.
(Prior Code, § 2-21)
§ 31.14 VOTING AT BOARD ELECTIONS.
   All the elections by the Board of Commissioners shall be by ballot, if
required by any 2 Commissioners present, and a majority of the votes of all
Commissioners present at a meeting of the Board shall be necessary to an
election or appointment; provided that no election, appointment or motion shall
be valid or adopted unless a quorum be present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
§ 31.15 SERGEANT AT ARMS.
   The Chief of Police shall maintain a roster of police officers to attend
each meeting of the Board of Commissioners in the capacity of sergeant at arms,
unless excused from attendance by the presiding officer. The sergeant at arms
shall maintain order at meetings and execute the orders of the Board of
Commissioners as given to him or her by the presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
§ 31.16 COMMITTEES.
   The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, provide for the creation of
standing committees and special committees, and prescribe the jurisdiction,
powers and duties of all committees.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 31.17 RULES.
   The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution not inconsistent with state
law, this code or other ordinance, adopt rules as it may deem desirable for
parliamentary procedure, the conduct of its meetings and the regulation of its
members and may impose penalties for the violation thereof by any person
subject thereto, including nonmembers present at or in the immediate vicinity
of any meeting of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board to establish rules for its proceedings, see G.S. § 160A-
171
§ 31.18 NONPARTISAN PLURALITY.
   Municipal elections shall be conducted as provided in G.S. § 163-292. G.S. §
163-292 states as follows:
In conducting nonpartisan elections and using the plurality method, elections
shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
When more than 1 person is seeking election to a single office, the candidate
who receives the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
When more persons are seeking election to 2 or more offices (constituting a
group) than there are offices to be filled, those candidates receiving the
highest number of votes, equal in number to the number of offices to be filled,
shall be declared elected.
If 2 or more candidates receiving the highest number of votes each receive the
same number of votes, the Board of Elections shall determine the winner by lot.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
Editor’s note:
   This section amends the charter.
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
32.001   Established; number, appointment and term of members; vacancies
   
32.002   Members to attend meetings
   
32.003   Meetings; quorum; officers; rules; records
   
32.004   Powers and duties; in general, zoning, subdivision regulations and the
like
   
32.005   Basic studies and materials authorized
   
32.006   Town officials and Board; authority of Board
   
32.007   Comprehensive plan
   
32.008   Public places, street plans and the like; recommendations
   
32.009   Annual report of activities; budget request
   
32.010   Acceptable contributions
   
32.011   Advisory council and special committees authorized
   
32.012   Right of appeal
Police Department
   
32.025   Police Department; composition; chain of command
   
32.026   Additional duties; Chief of Police
   
32.027   Police Department; rules and regulations
   
32.028   Auxiliary police unit; powers and regulations of members
   
32.029   Worker’s compensation benefits
   
32.030   Compensation and other benefits
   
32.031   Immunity of town
Board of Adjustment
   
32.045   Jurisdiction and decisions
   
32.046   Appeals, hearing and notice
   
32.047   Stay of proceeding
   
32.048   Powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment
Tourism Development, Convention and Visitors Bureau Bylaws
   
32.060   General provisions
   
32.061   Membership
   
32.062   Meetings of members
   
32.063   Officers
   
32.064   Duties of the officers
   
32.065   Committees
   
32.066   Finances
   
32.067   Miscellaneous
Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.080   General rules
   
32.081   Officers and duties
   
32.082   Meetings
   
32.083   Removal of members
   
32.084   Records
   
32.085   Planning Director
   
32.086   Designation of historic districts
   
32.087   Designation of historic landmarks
   
32.088   Procedures for obtaining a certificate of appropriateness
   
32.089   Appeals
   
32.090   Applications involving members
   
32.091   Minor works
   
32.092   Amendment
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHED; NUMBER, APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF MEMBERS; VACANCIES.
   The Planning Board is hereby established, which shall consist of 11 members
(5 town members and 6 ETJ members) to be filled by appointment by the Mayor
with the approval of the Town Council on or before June 30 of each year. All
members, including ETJ, shall have equal voting rights on all matters brought
before the Wilkesboro Planning Board. Terms of office shall be from 1 to 3
years staggered in a manner that provides for no more than 2 terms of inside
members and 2 terms of ETJ members expiring at any one time. Vacancies
occurring for reasons other than expirations of term shall be filled as they
occur for the period of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-41) (Am. Ord. 2014-04, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 32.002 MEMBERS TO ATTEND MEETINGS.
   Faithful attendance at meetings shall be a prerequisite for the maintenance
of membership on the Planning Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
§ 32.003 MEETINGS; QUORUM; OFFICERS; RULES; RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall meet each year on the first Tuesday in June and
elect its chairperson and create and fill offices as it may determine. The term
of the chairperson and other officers shall be 1 year, with eligibility for
reelection. The Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and
shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of its resolutions,
discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a public
record. The Board shall hold at least 1 meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public. There shall be a quorum of 3 members for
the purpose of taking any official action required by state law, this code or
other ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
§ 32.004 POWERS AND DUTIES; IN GENERAL, ZONING, SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall have the powers and discharge the duties
provided by law for Planning Boards established under the provisions of the
General Statutes of North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Planning Board,
in general:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends and present
conditions appertaining to matters which must be considered in planning the
development of the area, and forces at work to cause changes in these
conditions;
      (2)   To prepare and from time to time amend and revise the comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Commissioners ordinances
promoting orderly development along the lines indicated in the comprehensive
plan;
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
      (6)   To cooperate with and assist in the coordination of the progress of
any county planning boards in Wilkes County, and to furnish technical
assistance to the boards;
      (7)   To keep the Board of Commissioners and the general public informed
and advised as to these matters; and
      (8)   To perform any other duties which may be lawfully assigned to it.
(Prior Code, § 2-44)
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have and exercise all the rights and duties
set forth in G.S. § 160A-387. With respect to zoning, the Planning Board shall,
among its other duties, specifically study the resources and needs of the town
and prepare maps and plans for the systematic future development of the town.
It shall provide in those plans for dividing the town into districts and zones
and shall prepare plans specifying the height, area, manner of construction and
land use in districts and zones. It shall prepare and submit to the Board of
Commissioners, for approval and adoption, reports and recommendations as to
regulation of the percentage of a lot that may be occupied; the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces; and the location and use of buildings, structures
and land for trade, industry, residence or other purposes; and it shall make
studies and surveys of the town with respect to the proper zoning thereof in as
full and ample manner as is required in the performance of its other duties as
a Planning Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
   (C)   The Planning Board shall propose and review from time to time
regulations for the control of land subdivision in the area and submit to the
Board of Commissioners its recommendations, if any, for the revision of
regulations. Regulations shall be adopted or amended. The Planning Board shall
review and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners concerning all
proposed plats of land subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
   (D)   The Planning Board may conduct public hearings as may be required to
gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of
the comprehensive plan. Before adopting any plan it shall hold at least 1
public hearing thereon. The Planning Board shall have power to promote public
interest in and understanding of its recommendations, and to that end it may
have published and distributed copies of its recommendations, and may employ
other means of publicity and education as it may determine. Members and
employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Board, may attend
planning conferences, planning institutes or hearings upon pending planning
legislation, and may, by formal and affirmative vote, pay, within the Board’s
budget, the reasonable travel expenses incidental to attendance.
(Prior Code, § 2-47)
§ 32.005 BASIC STUDIES AND MATERIALS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   As background for its comprehensive plan and any ordinances it may
prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of man-made
and natural physical features of the area, statistics of past trends and
present conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic
base of the area, land use and other information as is important or likely to
be important in determining the amount, direction and kind of development to be
expected in the area and its various parts.
   (B)   In addition, the Planning Board may cause to be made or may obtain
special studies on the location, condition and adequacy of special facilities
which may include, but is not limited to: studies of housing, commercial and
industrial facilities; parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities and
public and private utilities and traffic, transportation and parking
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-48)
§ 32.006 TOWN OFFICIALS AND BOARD; AUTHORITY OF BOARD.
   All town officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning Board
available records or information as it may require in its work. The Board or
its agencies may, in the performance of its official duties and in compliance
with all applicable provisions of law, enter upon land and make examinations or
surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(Prior Code, § 2-49)
§ 32.007 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The comprehensive plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and
descriptive matter, shall be the basis for the town’s program for the
development of the area and it shall show the Planning Board’s recommendations
to the Board of Commissioners for the development of the area, including, among
other things, the general location, character and extent of streets; bridges,
boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields and other
public ways, grounds and open spaces; the general location and extent of public
utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for
water, lights and sanitation, transportation, communications, power and other
purposes; and the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating,
abandonment, change of use or extension of any of the foregoing ways,
buildings, grounds, open spaces, property, utilities or terminals.
   (B)   The comprehensive plan and any ordinances or other measures to
effectuate it shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the town
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals and the general welfare, as well as efficiency
and economy in the process of development; including, among other things,
adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other
dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of public funds and the
adequate provision of public utilities, services and other public requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-50)
§ 32.008 PUBLIC PLACES, STREET PLANS AND THE LIKE; RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Planning Board shall review with various county officials and report its
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners upon the extent, location and
design of all public structures and facilities, on the acquisition and disposal
of public properties, on the establishment of building lines, mapped street
lines and proposals to change existing street plans. However, in the absence of
a recommendation from the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners, if it
deems wise, at the expiration of 30 days from the date of which the question
has been submitted in writing to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation, take final action.
(Prior Code, § 2-51)
§ 32.009 ANNUAL REPORT OF ACTIVITIES;  BUDGET REQUEST.
   The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit to the Board of
Commissioners a written report of its activities, an analysis of its
expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and, for review and approval,
its requested budget of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 2-52)
§ 32.010 ACCEPTABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The Planning Board is authorized to receive contributions from private
agencies and organizations and from individuals, in addition to any sums which
may be appropriated for its purposes or projects, subject to any specified
condition which it deems acceptable, whether or not projects are included in
the approved budget. The Planning Board is authorized to appoint committees and
employees, and to authorize expenditures as it may see fit, subject to
limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board by the Board of
Commissioners in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 2-53)
§ 32.011 ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES AUTHORIZED.
   The Planning Board may seek the establishment of an unofficial advisory
council and may cooperate with this council to the end that its investigations
and plans may receive its consideration, but the Board may not delegate to the
advisory council any of its official prerogatives. The Planning Board may set
up special committees to assist it in the study of specific questions and
problems.
(Prior Code, § 2-54)
§ 32.012 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by any action of the Planning Board shall have the
right to appeal to the town Board of Commissioners, who may by unanimous action
reverse or modify action.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.025 POLICE DEPARTMENT; COMPOSITION; CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of regular, auxiliary and special
members and quarters, vehicles, equipment and other property as may from time
to time be authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The organization of the Police Department shall be as provided by
regulations adopted pursuant to
§ 32.027.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, under the general supervision of the Mayor, shall
have direct control of the members and property of the Police Department and
shall be in command of the members. Members of the Police Department shall
assume command in order of rank as prescribed in departmental rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
   (D)   A Special Investigations Unit for the Town of Wilkesboro shall exist
as a new division of the Wilkesboro Police Department. The number of members of
the Special Investigations Unit shall be determined by the Mayor and Town Board
of the Town of Wilkesboro. The Chief of Police, under the general supervision
of the Mayor, shall have direct control of the members and property of the
Special Investigations Unit. Members of the Special Investigations Unit shall
assume command in the Unit as prescribed by the rules and regulations of the
Police Department, the Wilkesboro Town Code and with the authorization of the
Mayor and Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-27-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Arrests, see G.S.§ 15-54 
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of town, see G.S. § 160A-286
   Policemen generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 32.026 ADDITIONAL DUTIES; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   In addition to his or her duties as commanding officer of the Police
Department, the Chief of Police shall perform all duties prescribed for him or
her by this code and other ordinances and by the General Statutes of North
Carolina.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
§ 32.027 POLICE DEPARTMENT; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor, in consultation with the Chief of Police, shall prepare rules and
regulations for the government of the Police Department and the personnel
thereof. The rules and regulations, which may be amended from time to time,
shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for approval. It shall be
unlawful for any member of the Police Department to violate any rule or
regulation which has been approved by resolution of the Board of Commissioners
and placed on file in the office of the Town Clerk; and a copy of all approved
rules and regulations shall also be placed on file at Police Department
headquarters.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
§ 32.028 AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT; POWERS AND REGULATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created a law enforcement unit to be known and designated as
the Auxiliary Police Unit of the Town of Wilkesboro, which unit shall consist
of a number of members as the Board of Commissioners may from time to time
determine. The members of the unit shall be subordinate to the members of the
regular Police Department and shall take the oath of office as prescribed by
law. They shall be vested with all of the powers of arrest vested in regular
police officers under the laws of the state and ordinances of the town. The
members of the auxiliary police unit shall operate under rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to
§ 32.027, a copy of which will be furnished each member of the unit.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
§ 32.029 WORKER’S COMPENSATION BENEFITS.
   Duly appointed auxiliary police officers shall, while training and while
performing duties on behalf of the town incidental to their appointment, be
entitled to worker’s compensation benefits to the same extent as regular town
employees.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
§ 32.030 COMPENSATION AND OTHER BENEFITS.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not be entitled to remuneration for their
services unless called into active duty for an extended period of time by the
Board of Commissioners, in which event they may receive compensation for their
services as shall be fixed by the Commissioners. Auxiliary police officers
shall not be entitled to any benefits or compensation other than those provided
in this section and §
32.029, but this shall not in any manner affect the rights of any person to
benefits provided by the State of North Carolina or by Act of Congress for
civilian defense workers or auxiliary police officers.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)
§ 32.031 IMMUNITY OF TOWN.
   The town shall be entitled to the same immunities with respect to the action
of auxiliary police officers in the performance of their duties or training or
otherwise, to which it is entitled with respect to the actions of regular
police officers in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)
Statutory reference:
   Auxiliary police, see G.S. § 160A-282
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.045 JURISDICTION AND DECISIONS.
   (A)   The 1 member appointed to the Board by the Wilkesboro Board of
Commissioners as the representative of the 1-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the area outside the Town of Wilkesboro shall be a resident of the area and
citizen of Wilkes County. The 4 members appointed to the Board by the
Wilkesboro Board of Commissioners as representatives of the area within the
city limits of the Town of Wilkesboro shall be residents of the area and
citizens of Wilkes County.
   (B)   All members shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with other
members of the Board in all matters. The concurring vote of 4/5 of members of
the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements, decision or
determination of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or Zoning Administration
Officer charged with enforcement of this section or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under the zoning
ordinance or to effect any variation of that section.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1996)
§ 32.046 APPEALS, HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by an
officer, department, board or bureau of the Town of Wilkesboro affected by any
decisions of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or Zoning Administration Officer,
or other town official based on this section. The appeal shall be taken within
30 days of the decision by filing with the Zoning Enforcement Officer and
Zoning Administration Officer and with the Board a written notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. All papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken shall forthwith be transmitted to the Board.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold hearings at which specific appeals
shall be heard, notice of hearing being made public in at least 2 of the
following ways:
      (1)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the
community;
      (2)   Posting signs concerning the hearing in the neighborhood which is
affected;
      (3)   Sending written notices to all of the adjoining property owners.
   (C)   In any of the 3 methods of notice each should contain the time, date
and place of the hearing, and the property which will be affected.
   (D)   There shall be a fee of $50 payable to the Town of Wilkesboro to cover
the costs of administration and public hearing advertisement for each hearing
which the Board hears. The fee will be payable when the appeal is instigated.
   (E)   The Board shall vote according to the procedures set forth in §
32.045 when instituting action to overrule the decisions of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Administration Officer. Conditional use cases,
special exceptions and variance cases shall require 4/5 of the members of the
Board of Adjustment voting in favor of that action.
   (F)   Any appeals to the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be taken
to Wilkes County Superior Court within 30 days after the decision of the Board
is filed in the Town Hall or after a written copy thereof is delivered to the
appellant by personal service or registered mail, whichever is later. The Board
decisions should be filed as follows:
      (1)   One copy to the Town Manager/Zoning Administration Officer;
      (2)   One copy to the Building Inspector/Zoning Enforcement Officer;
      (3)   One copy to the town hall;
      (4)   One copy to the appellant; and
      (5)   One copy in the Board files.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1996)
§ 32.047 STAY OF PROCEEDING.
   An appeal to the Board of Adjustment stays all legal proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administration
Officer or Zoning Enforcement Officer certifies to the Board of Adjustment
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril of life and property or that because the violation charged
is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of
the ordinance. In that case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a
court of record upon application, on notice to the Zoning Administration
Officer and Zoning Enforcement Officer, and on due cause shown.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1996)
§ 32.048 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer or Zoning Administration Officer in the enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which the Board of Adjustment is required to pass under this chapter
(e.g., group projects);
   (C)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases variances from the terms of
the chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the chapter
will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
hardship, so that the spirit of the chapter shall be observed, public safety
and welfare secured and substantial justice done; and
   (D)   The existence of a nonconforming use of neighboring land, buildings or
structures in the same district or of permitted or nonconforming uses in other
districts shall not constitute a reason for the requested variance. The
variance may be granted in an individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a
finding by the Board of Adjustment that the following conditions exist:
      (1)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or
topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same
district.
      (2)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the applicant
any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the district in
which the property is located.
      (3)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this section would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
      (4)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this section and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare.
      (5)   The special circumstances are not the result of actions of the
applicant.
      (6)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land, building or structures.
      (7)   The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, building or
structure which is not permitted by right or by special exception in the
district involved.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1996)
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT, CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU BYLAWS
§ 32.060 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   This Board shall be known as the Wilkesboro Tourism Development,
Convention and Visitors Bureau.
   (B)   The Wilkesboro Tourism Development, Convention and Visitors Bureau is
organized to promote tourism and conventions and increase visitation to
Wilkesboro.
   (C)   The Tourism Development Bureau was created and is appointed by the
Wilkesboro Town Board of Commissioners in accordance with local legislation
approved by the North Carolina General Assembly (Session Law 2001-439, Senate
Bill 439).
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions dealing with the Tourism Development Bureau, see G.S. §§
143B-434.1 et seq.
§ 32.061 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   As authorized by the General Assembly, the Bureau shall be made up of
5 members, at least 1/3 of the members must be individuals who are affiliated
with businesses that collect the tax in the town and at least 3/4 of the
members must be individuals who are currently active in the promotion of travel
and tourism in the town.
   (B)   All appointments will be for a 1-year term. Any vacancy will be filled
for the remaining unexpired term. No member shall serve more than 4
consecutive, 1-year terms.
   (C)   The Bureau shall immediately notify the Town Board of any vacancies
that arise. The Board of Commissioners shall name a replacement to fill out the
vacant term within 60 days of notification.
   (D)   If any member misses 3 consecutive meetings, the TDB may notify the
Wilkesboro Board of Commissioners and request that the member be replaced.
   (E)   Any officer can be removed from his or her elected office by 2/
3 majority vote of the entire Board.
   (F)   Each member in good standing shall be entitled to 1 vote on each
matter submitted to the vote of the members. Assignment of voting privileges is
not permitted.
   (G)   The Wilkesboro Town Manager shall serve as a non-voting ex officio
member and the immediate past chairman shall serve as a non-voting ex officio
member.
   (H)   Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for
expenses in connection with the performance of their duties at the same rate
that Wilkesboro Town Government allows.
   (I)   The Bureau shall indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is
threatened to be made a party to any civil, criminal, administrative or
investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Bureau) by reason
of the fact that he or she is, or was, serving at the request of the Bureau as
a member or agent of another corporation or other enterprise, against expenses,
including attorney’s fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement by
him or her in connection with that action, suit or proceeding, if acting in
good faith and in a manner believed to be in the best interest of the Bureau,
and with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause
to believe his or her action was unlawful.
   (J)   The Bureau shall determine all policies under which the Bureau
operates, in accordance with state law and legislation creating the Bureau. The
Bureau may contract with any person, firm, corporation or agency to advise and
assist it in the development of programs for the promotion of travel, tourism
and conventions and may do so as a Bureau upon majority vote of membership
present.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
§ 32.062 MEETINGS OF MEMBERS.
   ( A)   The Bureau shall meet quarterly in July, October, January, and April
at a place, date, and time designated by the Chairman. Special meetings may be
called by the Chairman or a majority of the membership, giving proper notice of
time, location and purpose to each member and the newsmedia.
   (B)   All meetings of the Bureau, whether regular or special, shall be
announced and open to the public, provided that executive sessions may be held
in accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (C)   At any meeting of the Bureau, the presence of 3 members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not
present, a majority of those members present may adjourn the meeting.
   (D)   The minutes of all meetings of the Bureau shall be kept and mailed to
the members prior to the next regular meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002; Am. Res. 2017-37, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 32.063 OFFICERS.
   There shall be elected from the members of the Bureau a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson; terms shall be for 1 year. The Town Manager of Wilkesboro or
his or her designee shall serve as the Finance Officer/Treasurer and Secretary.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
§ 32.064 DUTIES OF THE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all regular and special meetings of
the Bureau. He or she shall appoint committees, when necessary, sign contracts
and instruments of the Bureau as authorized by the Bureau, and shall perform
other duties as may be specified by these bylaws.
   (B)   The Vice-Chairperson shall perform duties as the Bureau or the
Chairperson may assign. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson
shall preside at the meetings of the Bureau and perform other duties and
responsibilities of the Chairperson.
   (C)   The Wilkesboro Town Manager’s designee shall perform this duty and
others as assigned by the Bureau.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall review and approve or disapprove expenditures and
orders for disbursement of funds. The books of the Bureau shall have a
certified audit at the end of each fiscal year by a CPA. The Treasurer shall
work with the Chairperson to carry the financial policies adopted by the
Bureau. The Treasurer shall report to the Bureau at each regular meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
§ 32.065 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   There shall be 3 standing committees and other special committees as
needed. The committee shall consist of not more than 3 members of the Bureau.
   (B)   The standing committees are appointed by the Chairperson and will be:
      (1)   Marketing Committee: The Marketing Committee shall prepare and
submit to the Bureau for approval an annual program to advertise and promote
tourism and convention development.
      (2)   Budget and Finance Committee: The Budget and Finance Committee
shall monitor all financial affairs of the Bureau and shall submit a proposed
annual budget.
      (3)   Administrative Committee: The Administrative Committee shall be
chaired by the Board Chairperson to oversee personnel, contracts and related
matters.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
§ 32.066 FINANCES.
   (A)   The fiscal year for the Bureau shall begin on July 1 and end June 30
of the subsequent calendar year.
   (B)   All disbursement checks shall contain 2 signatures. The Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson and the Treasurer shall have authority to sign checks.
   (C)   All funds of the Bureau in excess of $100 shall be deposited daily to
the credit of the Bureau in banks or depositories as the Town of Wilkesboro may
select.
   (D)   The Bureau may accept on behalf of the Bureau any contribution, gift,
bequest or device for the purpose of the Bureau.
   (E)   All matters of fiscal control shall be in accordance with those of the
Town of Wilkesboro and the General Statutes of the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
§ 32.067 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Any funds remaining in the account of the Bureau, if the Bureau is
dissolved, shall at the end of the fiscal year revert to the Town of
Wilkesboro.
   (B)   No member or agent of the Bureau shall be involved either directly or
indirectly in any contract with the Bureau.
   (C)   These bylaws, or any part thereof, may be amended by a 2/3 affirmative
vote of the members of the Bureau present and voting, provided a quorum is
present and upon approval of the Town Board of Wilkesboro.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.080 GENERAL RULES.
   The Historic Preservation Commission of the Town of Wilkesboro, North
Carolina, shall be governed by the terms of G.S. §§ 160A-400.1 et seq., and by
the terms of the Town of Wilkesboro Historic Preservation Ordinance enacted by
the Town of Wilkesboro Board of Commissioners on April 5, 2004, and any
amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.081 OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall organize and elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson annually at the first meeting in the month of July. These officers
shall be eligible for reelection.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and public hearings of
the Commission, decide on all matters of order and procedures and appoint any
committees found necessary to investigate those matters before the Commission
or to perform any of its duties.
   (C)   The Vice-Chairperson shall assume the duties of the Chairperson in his
or her absence.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.082 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held on the third Tuesday
of each month at the Town Hall in Wilkesboro, North Carolina; provided that if
the Chairperson so directs, meetings may be held at any other place in the
town.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Commission may be called at any time by the
Chairperson, provided that at least 48-hours’ notice is given to each member.
   (C)   A quorum shall consist of 4 members.
   (D)   All meetings shall be open to the public. The order of business at
regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Recognition of visitors;
      (3)   New business;
      (4)   Unfinished business;
      (5)   Reports of committees;
      (6)   Reading of minutes of the previous meeting; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
   (E)   No change shall be made to the Rules of Procedure of the Historic
Preservation Commission without the affirmative vote of 4 members of the
Commission.
   (F)   Except as otherwise specified herein, the vote of the majority of
those members present shall be sufficient to decide matters before the
Commission provided that there are at least 3 affirmative votes. All members
attending the meeting shall vote unless excused by the Chairperson for just
cause.
   (G)   Whenever there is no business for the Commission, the Chairperson may
dispense with a regular meeting by giving notice to all members no less than 24
hours prior to that time set for the meeting.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.083 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Chairperson shall notify the Mayor of the Town of Wilkesboro of any
Commission member who is absent from 3 consecutive meetings unless those
absences are excused by the Commission for good and sufficient cause.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.084 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Director shall maintain a file of all studies, plans,
reports and recommendations made by the Commission in the discharge of its
duties and responsibilities.
   (B)   All records of the Commission shall be public records.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.085 PLANNING DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Planning Director shall be the staff of the Town of Wilkesboro to
keep the minutes of the Commission, notify members of the regular and called
meetings, record attendance, carry on routine correspondence, maintain the
files of the Commission and handle the finances of the Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Director shall provide the minutes of the previous
meeting to members by mail 4 to 5 days prior to the next scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.086 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All requests shall first be presented to the Historic Preservation
Commission. The requests should include reference to the historical,
architectural or archaeological significance of the proposed district. The
Commission will conduct a preliminary investigation to determine the
eligibility of the proposed area.
   (B)   If the Commission determines that the proposed area is ineligible to
become an historic district, the Commission shall report that determination to
the entity that requested the designation. The report shall be made within 30
days of the Commission’s consideration of the request. The report may also
include recommendations of if and how the request may be amended in order to
make the area eligible as an historic district.
   (C)   If the Commission determines that a proposed area is eligible to
become an historic district, it shall notify property owners within the area
through first class mail that establishment of an historic district will be
considered by the Commission at a specified date and time. The Commission shall
hold the public informational meetings and receive questions and comments,
after which they shall make refinements to any proposed boundaries.
   (D)   The Commission shall prepare and submit a report to the Planning Board
and the Town Board. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the
following information:
      (1)   A boundary description of the area;
      (2)   A map at a scale of not less than 1 inch represents 200 feet,
showing the boundaries of the proposed area; and
      (3)   A description of the significance of the area, including its
buildings, structures, features, sites or surroundings.
   (E)   Pursuant to review and comment by the Town Board, the report shall be
forwarded to the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources who shall make
an analysis of and recommendations concerning the report and description of
proposed boundaries to the Town Board. Failure of the Department to submit its
written analysis and recommendations to the Town Board within 30 calendar days
after a written request for the analysis has been received by the Department of
Cultural Resources shall relieve the town of any responsibility for awaiting
the analysis, and the Town Board may at any time thereafter take any necessary
action to adopt or amend its zoning ordinance.
   (F)   Once all of the previous procedural steps have been met, rezoning the
proposed area to an historic district shall proceed in the same manner as would
otherwise be required for a change in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.087 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   (A)   All requests shall first be presented to the Historic Preservation
Commission. The requests should include reference to the historical,
architectural or archaeological significance of the proposed landmark. The
Commission will conduct a preliminary investigation to determine the
eligibility of the landmark.
   (B)   If the Commission determines that the proposed landmark is ineligible
to become an historic landmark, the Commission shall report that determination
to the entity that requested the designation. The report shall be made within
30 days of the Commission’s consideration of the request. The report may also
include recommendations of if and how the request may be amended in order to
improve it.
   (C)   If the Commission determines that the proposed landmark is eligible to
become an historic landmark, it shall notify property owners within the area
through first class mail that designation of an historic landmark will be
considered by the Commission at a specified date and time. The Commission shall
hold the public informational meetings and receive questions and comments.
   (D)   The Commission shall prepare and submit a report to the Planning Board
and the Town Board. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the current property owner;
      (2)   The location of the property proposed to be designated historic,
including the street address and tax map and parcel numbers;
      (3)   The date of construction and of any later alterations, if any;
      (4)   An architectural or archaeological description of the area of the
site or structure proposed to be designated. If outbuildings or other
appurtenant features are proposed for designation, the report shall contain a
description of those features;
      (5)   An assessment and historical discussion of the site or structure
within its type, period and locality;
      (6)   Photographs that clearly depict the property proposed for
designation, including views of all facades, pertinent details and siting; and
      (7)   A map clearly showing the location and boundaries of the property,
including any outbuildings and appurtenant features.
   (E)   Pursuant to review and comment by the Town Board, the report shall be
forwarded to the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources who shall make
an analysis of and recommendations concerning the report and description of
proposed boundaries to the Town Board. (If the Department does not submit its
written comments or recommendations in connection with any proposed designation
within 30 calendar days after a written request for the analysis has been
received, the Department shall relieve the town of any responsibility for
awaiting the analysis.)
   (F)   The Town Board and Historic Preservation Commission shall hold a joint
public hearing on the proposed ordinance. Notice of the hearings shall be
published at least once in a newspaper generally circulated within the town.
Written notice of the hearings shall also be mailed by the Commission to all
owners and occupants of properties. All notices shall be published or mailed
not less than 10 nor more than 25 days prior to the date set for the public
hearing.
   (G)   Upon adoption of the ordinance or any amendments thereto, the owners
and occupants of each designated historic property shall be given written
notification of the designation. One copy of the ordinance and each amendment
thereto shall be filed by the Historic Preservation Commission in the office of
the County Register of Deeds. Each historic property designated as an historic
landmark in the ordinance shall be indexed according to the name of the owner
of the property in the grantee and grantor indices in the Register of Deeds
office, and the Historic Preservation Commission shall pay a reasonable fee for
filing and indexing. A second copy of the ordinance and of each amendment
thereto shall be kept on file in the Town Clerk’s office and shall be made
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A third copy of the
ordinance and each amendment thereto shall be given to the Wilkes County
Building Inspector.
   (H)   Upon adoption of the ordinance or any amendments thereto, it shall be
the duty of the Historic Preservation Commission to give notice thereof to the
Wilkes County Tax Assessor. The designation and any recorded restrictions upon
the property limiting its use for preservation purposes shall be considered by
the assessor in appraising it for tax purposes. The fact that a building,
structure, site, area or object has been designated an historic landmark shall
be clearly indicated on all tax maps maintained by the county for a period as
the designation remains in effect.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.088 PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of appropriateness shall be submitted
to the Planning Director no later than 14 calendar days prior to the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Historic Preservation Commission.
Applications shall contain the names and addresses of the property owners
filing the application and those of the property owners within 100 feet on all
sides of the property that is the subject of the application. The Planning
Director is responsible for transmitting the application to the Historic
Preservation Commission.
   (B)   The planning staff will notify by mail the owners of any property
located within 100 feet on all sides of the property that is the subject of the
application. Prior to the issuance or denial of a certificate of
appropriateness, the Historic Preservation Commission will give the applicant
and other affected property owners and/or residents the opportunity to be
heard.
   (C)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall act upon the application
within 60 calendar days after the filing. If the Commission fails to act upon
the application within this time it shall be deemed to constitute approval and
a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued.
   (D)   All actions of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be set forth
in writing. The Historic Preservation Commission’s final action on an
application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be by the passage of a
motion to take 1 of the following actions:
      (1)   Approve the application for a certificate of appropriateness as
proposed, and provide in writing the findings on which the decision is based;
      (2)   Approve the application for a certificate of appropriateness
subject to specific conditions and/or modifications, providing these conditions
of approval in writing; or
      (3)   Disapprove the application for a certificate of appropriateness as
proposed, and provide in writing the findings on which the decision is based.
   (E)   (1)   The applicant shall have 180 days from the date the certificate
of appropriateness is approved and issued to procure a building or demolition
permit. Failure to procure the permit in this period will be a failure to
comply with the certificate of appropriateness and it shall be void.
      (2)   If a building permit is not required, the work must be completed
within the 180-day period.
      (3)   If work is commenced, but discontinued for a period of 180 days or
more, the certificate will be void.
   (F)   If the Historic Preservation Commission determines that a certificate
of appropriateness should not be issued, a new application affecting the same
property may be submitted only if substantial changes are made in plans for the
proposed work.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.089 APPEALS.
   Any aggrieved party may take an appeal from the actions of the Historic
Preservation Commission to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, whether the
application was approved or denied. The appeal shall be taken within 20
calendar days after the decision of the Commission and shall be in the nature
of certiorari.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.090 APPLICATIONS INVOLVING MEMBERS.
   No Commission member shall take part in the hearing, consideration or
determination of any case in which he or she is a party or has a financial
interest.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.091 MINOR WORKS.
   (A)   Minor works may be reviewed and approved by the Minor Works Committee
in accordance with the review criteria established in the Commission’s Design
Review Guidelines. The Minor Works Committee will consist of 1 Commission
member and the Planning Director.
   (B)   No denial of a certificate of appropriateness is allowed without
formal action by the Commission.
   (C)   In any event, the action of the Minor Works Committee will be reported
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.092 AMENDMENT.
   These rules may, within the limits allowed by law, be amended at any time by
an affirmative vote of at least 4 members of the Commission. This proposed
amendment must have been presented to the Commission members in writing at a
regular or special meeting preceding the meeting at which the vote is taken.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Presentation of accounts and the like to Board for action
   
33.02   Payment from town treasury
   
33.03   Claim against town as offset for penalty or taxes and the like
   
33.04   Listing of polls and property for taxation
   
33.05   Insurance
   
33.06   Access to public records and property
Procurement Policy
   
33.20   Introduction
   
33.21   Equal opportunity
   
33.22   Conflict of interest policy
   
33.23   Appropriations and encumbrances
   
33.24   Competition
   
33.25   Bidding
   
33.26   Contracts
   
33.27   Signature authority
   
33.28   Card programs
   
33.29   Federal and state compliance
   
33.30   Implementation
   
33.31   Miscellaneous items
   
33.32   Related policies, procedures and publications
   
33.33   Uniform guidance procurement policy; federal purchasing funds through
loans, grants, etc.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PRESENTATION OF ACCOUNTS AND THE LIKE TO BOARD FOR ACTION.
   All accounts, complaints and requests for the action of the Board of
Commissioners shall be filed with the Town Clerk in writing; all claims against
the town shall be sworn to before the Town Clerk or another person authorized
to administer an oath before being considered by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal corporations generally, see G.S. Chapter 160A
§ 33.02 PAYMENT FROM TOWN TREASURY.
   (A)   No money shall be paid out of the town treasury unless by order of the
Board of Commissioners in meeting assembled, and then only upon a warrant
signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Town Clerk. All warrants for the
payment of money shall state upon their face the nature of the claims for which
warrants are drawn; provided that any committee ordering expenditures by virtue
of their duties shall audit and approve the claim for expenditures before the
claim shall be approved by the Board.
   (B)   The Clerk shall retain, in a book kept for that purpose, a duplicate
of every warrant issued, showing the purpose for which expended.
   (C)   All claims against the town shall be sworn to before a person
authorized to administer an oath before being considered by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
§ 33.03 CLAIM AGAINST TOWN AS OFFSET FOR PENALTY OR TAXES AND THE LIKE.
   No claim against the town will be received as an offset for a penalty or
taxes or any other amount due the town, unless the claim has been audited and
approved by an order of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 33.04 LISTING OF POLLS AND PROPERTY FOR TAXATION.
   The Town Clerk shall, by public advertisement, give notice of the time set
and required for listing the polls and taxable property within the town, and
any person failing to list him or herself, if subject to poll tax, and taxable
property as he or she may possess within the time fixed in the advertisement,
shall be subject to the penalty prescribed by the laws of North Carolina for
failure to list poll and property tax; and the Town Clerk shall each year, as
early as practicable after the listing, make out the lists of personal property
and real estate, according to the valuation fixed on the property by the
Township Assessor and revised by the County Tax Supervisor, the County Board of
Equalization and Review and the State Board of Assessment, and record them in
the permanent town tax list book, and prepare the tax lists for collection by
the Tax Collector, so as to have tax lists in the hands of the Tax Collector
not later than the first of October of each year, if practicable.
(Prior Code, § 2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.05 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, authorize the Mayor, on
behalf of the town to contract with 1 or more insurance companies authorized to
do business in this state to protect the town, and town officers and employees
while acting in line of duty against losses arising from public liability,
fire, theft, hail, windstorm and other causes, the amount and terms of policies
to be as prescribed by the Board of Commissioners and agreed upon by the
insurers.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as a waiver of the
governmental immunity of the town under the provisions of G.S. § 160A-485; but
the Board of Commissioners may, in the resolution mentioned in division (A) of
this section, waive immunity if, in the discretion of the Board, the action
appears to be in the best interests of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 33.06 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS AND PROPERTY.
   No person shall remove any record, document, book or other paper belonging
to the town, or any other town property, from the office or place where it
properly belongs, without authority from the custodian thereof, who may require
a receipt therefor, except on written order from the Board of Commissioners or
the Mayor or pursuant to a valid subpoena duces tecum. All public records and
accounts shall be available to the public for inspection and use during all
regular business hours in the offices where maintained.
(Prior Code, § 2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROCUREMENT POLICY
§ 33.20 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   This policy is intended for use as a guide to Town of Wilkesboro's
purchasing methods and practices. This policy establishes rules and regulations
to govern all purchases and contracts by Town of Wilkesboro. It also implements
a system of internal controls that provide reasonable assurance that the town
follows federal and state of North Carolina General Statutes and Town of
Wilkesboro's local policies. All town personnel shall be subject to the
provisions within this policy. These procedures may be modified at any time as
deemed necessary or as the general statutes and local policies are adopted.
   (B)   It is the policy of the town to comply with competitive bidding rules
and regulations as required by the state of North Carolina general statutes,
along with all federal, state and/or town laws and local policies, when making
purchases of supplies, materials, equipment, construction and repair work and
services. The objective is to ensure fairness and an open process between all
competitors while in turn obtaining the best value for contracts involving the
use of public funds.
   (C)   This policy is not intended as detailed instructions for purchase
transactions but as an overall policy for town procurement.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.21 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
   It is the policy of Town of Wilkesboro to:
   (A)   Provide minorities equal opportunity to participate in all aspects of
the town contracting and purchasing program, including but not limited to,
participation in procurement contracts, professional and other service
contracts, and construction contracts.
   (B)   Prohibit discrimination against any person or business in pursuit of
these opportunities on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, disability or
national origin, and to conduct its contracting and purchasing programs so as
to prevent any discrimination and to resolve all claims of such discrimination.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.22 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The policies of Town of Wilkesboro require that all business
shall be transacted in compliance with all laws and shall be conducted in
conformance to the highest ethical standards. The proper operation of
government requires that public employees be independent, impartial, and
responsible to the citizens, and that the public positions not be used for
personal gain.
      (2)   Town of Wilkesboro's conflict of interest policy is established to
set guidelines that meet or exceed the requirements under state law and local
policy when procuring goods (apparatus, supplies, material, and equipment),
services, and construction or repair project paid for in part or whole by
federal funds and required under 2. CFR 200.318(c)(1).
      (3)   This policy applies when procuring goods (apparatus, supplies,
materials, and equipment), services, and construction or repair projects funded
in part or whole with federal financial assistance (direct or reimbursed). This
policy also applies to any sub-recipient of the funds.
   (B)   Conflict of interest defined.
      (1)   In addition to the prohibition against self-benefitting from a
public contract under G.S. § 14-234, no officer, employee, or agent of the Town
of Wilkesboro may participate directly or indirectly in the selection, award,
or administration of a contract supported by a federal award if he or she has a
real or apparent conflict of interest. A real or apparent conflict exists when
any of the following parties has a financial or other interest in or receives a
tangible personal benefit from a firm considered for award of a contract:
         (a)   The employee, Council member, officer, or agent involved in the
selection, award, or administration of a contract or with knowledge of such
contracts;
         (b)   Any member of his or her immediate family;
         (c)   His or her partner;
         (d)   Close friendships or confidants; or
         (e)   An organization which employs or is about to employ any of these
parties.
      (2)   Any employee, Council member, officer, or agent with an actual,
apparent, or potential conflict of interest as defined in this policy shall
report the conflict to his or her immediate supervisor. Any such conflict shall
be disclosed in writing to the federal award agency or pass-through entity in
accordance with applicable federal awarding agency policy.
      (3)   The employee responsible for managing the federal financial
assistance award shall review the notice of award to identify any additional
conflicts of interest prohibitions or requirements associated with the award,
and shall notify all employees, officers, and agents, including sub-recipients,
of the requirements of this policy and any additional prohibitions or
requirements.
   (C)   Gifts and favors.
      (1)   In addition to the prohibition against accepting gifts and favors
from vendors and contractors under G.S. § 133-32, officers, employees, and
agents of the Town of Wilkesboro are prohibited from accepting or soliciting
gifts, gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors,
suppliers, or parties to subcontracts. Items of nominal value valued at less
than $25 which fall into one of the following categories may be accepted:
         (a)   Promotional items;
         (b)   Honorariums for participation in meetings; or
         (c)   Meals furnished at banquets.
      (2)   Any officer, employee or agent who knowingly accepts an item of
nominal value allowed under this policy shall report the item to his or her
immediate supervisor. For the appearance of impartiality or favoring a brand or
business, these promotional items (i.e. cups, mugs, shirts, hats, etc.) should
not be used or worn at work.
   (D)   Benefit from confidential information. It is unethical and unlawful
for any employee or former employee knowingly to use confidential information
for actual or anticipated personal gain, or for the actual or anticipated
personal gain of any other person, G.S. § 14-234.
   (E)   Violation. Employees violating this policy will be subject to
discipline up to and including termination. Contractors violating this policy
will result in termination of the contract and may not be eligible for future
contract awards.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.23 APPROPRIATIONS AND ENCUMBRANCES.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROPRIATION. The act of setting aside money for a specific purpose. In
accounting for the government, an account that shows the funds a government
department has been credited with.
   ENCUMBRANCE or ENCUMBRANCES.
      (1)   A financial obligation created by a purchase order, contract,
salary commitment, unearned or prepaid collections for services provided by the
State, or other legally binding agreement.
      (2)   Include all outstanding purchase orders, unpaid invoices, written
agreements, and contracts that have not been completed for which the town has
an obligation to expend funds. Encumbrances against an appropriation are an
obvious reduction in the amount available for future expenditures, and only
when the encumbrances are recorded is a true report of the financial condition
of a department evident.
   NON-APPROPRIATION CLAUSE. Enables the lessee to terminate the lease
agreement at the end of the current appropriation period without further
obligation or penalty. This may be done only in cases where the lessee was
unable to obtain funding for future payment obligations on the contract.
   PREAUDIT REQUIREMENT. If an obligation is reduced to a written contract or
written agreement requiring the payment of money, or is evidenced by a written
purchase order for supplies and materials, the written contract, agreement, or
purchase order shall include on its face a certificate stating that the
instrument has been pre-audited to assure compliance with this section. The
certificate, which shall be signed by the finance officer (or any deputy
finance officer approved for this purpose by the governing board), shall take
substantially the following form:
      "This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
      ____________ (Signature of finance officer)"
      Under the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, all
expenditures must be supported by an appropriation. In G.S. § 159-28(b), bills,
invoices, or other claims against a local government or public authority may be
approved if:
      1)   The amount is determined to be payable; and
      2)   The budget or project ordinance includes an appropriation
authorizing the expenditure and either;
      2a)   An encumbrance has been previously created for the transaction; or
      2b)   An unencumbered balance remains in the appropriation sufficient to
pay the amount to be disbursed.
      Contracts, including purchase orders, must include a pre-audit
certificate signed by the Finance Officer.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.24 COMPETITION.
   (A)   NC historically underutilized businesses (HUB) G.S. § 143-128.4.
Vendors must become certified as a HUB firm with the State of North Carolina
under the Statewide Uniform Certification Program (SWUC) for good faith efforts
participation goals in construction, renovation and repair contracts/projects.
Town of Wilkesboro follows the state goals, which is currently 10%. For more
information: see School of Government's Coats' Canon Law Blog: https://
canons.sog.unc.edu/ good-faith-efforts-prove-it/ or at the NC HUB Office at
https://ncadmin.nc.gov/businesses/hub and https://vendor.ncgov.com/vendor/
login.
   (B)   Public bidding.
      (1)   Promotes full, fair, and open competition, reduces the risks of
fraud, promotes fair play, and lowers costs; therefore, competition should be
attempted and obtained for any purchase where competition is available. North
Carolina General Statutes requires bidding for materials, supplies, equipment;
construction, renovation, and repair contracts; and certain types of services
(architectural, engineering, surveying, construction manager-at-risk and data
processing/information technology related services).
      (2)   Based on the town's purchasing governance, the town must seek
competitive offers from qualified suppliers unless the items can be obtained
through existing contracts established by North Carolina state contract. Town
of Wilkesboro can participate in North Carolina state contracts whenever these
contracts are feasible and cost-effective.
   (C)   Public bidding roles.
      (1)   Town of Wilkesboro has a decentralized process for purchasing in
which individual departments identify their needs, obtain competitive pricing,
and follow sound, legal purchasing practices; however, the town is not bound by
any commitment to a vendor made by a department.
      (2)   Assistance is provided from the:
         (a)   Town Manager/Budget Officer:
            1.   Approving any purchase over $5,000.
            2.   Approves any construction, repair, and renovation projects.
            3.   Signs all town contracts.
            4.   Discusses any purchasing issues with town attorney.
            5.   Placing purchasing items on the Town Council agenda for
approvals.
         (b)   Finance Director/Assistant Town Manager:
            1.   Reviews and approves requisitions against appropriations for
pre-audit certification and purchase order generation.
            2.   All other finance task to ensure legal, procedural guidelines
are followed including documentation, analysis, and acceptance.
            3.   Completes all vendor's application/form request.
         (c)   Town Clerk:
            1.   Advertising required for all types of purchasing.
            2.   Contracts and certificates of insurance must be on file in the
Town Clerk's office.
         (d)   Accounts payable:
            1.   Invoices should be turned in with a purchase order number
attached to it.
            2.   All quotes should be attached to the invoice(s). After award,
a record of all bids received must go to accounts payable for filing.
         (e)   Department employee:
            1.   Along with order information, the employee placing the order
shall give each new vendor (not currently listed in financial software as a
vendor) a vendor packet and W-9 form to complete and return to accounts
payable. These forms are on the town's website and these forms should be used
for the most up-to-date vendor packet.
            2.   The employee placing the order shall give the purchase order
number to vendors for billing purposes.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.25 BIDDING.
   (A)   (1)   Bid processes differ based on the type and the anticipated
amount of the contract. Bidding promotes full, fair, and open competition.
There are two types of bidding that the town regularly uses, formal and
informal. The term "bid" usually implies a competitive situation to acquire
commodities (goods, supplies, materials, equipment, etc.) where the award
decision is primarily based on cost (procurement of "services" is covered in
division (D)). A "bid" may also be known or identified as a:
         (a)   Request for bid (RFB);
         (b)   Invitation to bid (ITB); or
         (c)   Request for quote (RFQ).
      (2)   Request for information (RFI) documents are used as an information
gathering process that may later serve as the basis for either an RFB or RFP
process. RFIs do not, as a rule, result in an award to a vendor.
      (3)   Contracts shall not be divided for the purpose of evading
competitive bidding requirements.
   (B)   Informal bidding (if pricing falls between divisions (B)(2)(a) through
(B)(2)(d)).
      (1)   Definitions of lowest responsible, responsive bidder (LRRB).
         RESPONSIBLE. The term "responsible" has been interpreted to imply
skill, judgement, and integrity necessary to the faithful performance of the
contract, as well as, sufficient financial resources, ability to be bonded, and
ability to award the contract.
         RESPONSIVE. The contract award takes into consideration previous
quality, performance during a project/job, and time specified in the proposals
for the performance of a contract.
      (2)   (a)   Local policy - any purchase $5,000 and greater will need
approval by the Town Manager.
         (b)   Materials, supplies, and equipment - informal bidding is
required when the estimated cost is $0 - $89,999.
         (c)   Construction, renovation, and repair contracts not involving
buildings - informal bidding is required when the estimated cost is $0 -
$29,999.
         (d)   Construction, renovation, and repair contracts (G.S. § 143-131)
- informal bidding is required when the estimated cost is $5,000 - $29,999.
      (3)   Wilkesboro Local Purchasing Policy and NC General Statutes requires
the following for informal bids:
         (a)   Town Manager approval:
            1.   Local policy - any purchase, service $5,000 and over.
            2.   Local policy - any type of construction, renovations, or
repairs.
         (b)   G.S. § 143-129, § 143-131 board approval:
            1.   Local policy - Town Manager will place purchasing items on the
Town Council agenda for Town Board approval.
         (c)   G.S. § 143-132 minimum number of bids:
            1.   Local policy under $1,000 requires one bid minimum.
            2.   Local policy $1,000.01 and over requires three bid minimum.
         (d)   G.S. § 143-131 a record of all quotes/bids must be kept:
            1.   Local policy - must be turned into accounts payable.
         (e)   G.S. § 143-129, § 143-131 awarded to the lowest responsible,
responsive bidder (LRRB).
         (f)   G.S. § 143-129(f1) dispute resolution:
            1.   Local policy - town uses the process adopted by the State
Building Commission.
         (g)   G.S. § 143-129 no bid bond.
         (h)   G.S. § 44A-26, § 143-129 no payment and performance bonds.
         (i)   G.S. § 143-129 no advertisement is required.
         (j)   G.S. § 143-129, § 143-129.9, § 143-131 public bid opening is NOT
required.
         (k)   G.S. § 143-128.2, § 143-131 no HUB is required.
         (l)   G.S. § 143-129, § 143-131 no sealed bids:
            1.   Local policy - Town Manager may request sealed bids on
specific projects.
         (m)   G.S. § 132-1, § 132-6, § 143-131 public inspection of bids:
            1.   Local policy - public/vendors can be view bids after the
contract is awarded.
   (C)   Formal bidding is required where the estimated cost items listed in
division (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(c) in this section only.
      (1)   (a)   Materials, supplies, and equipment - formal bidding is
required when the estimated cost is $90,000 or greater.
         (b)   Construction, renovation, and repair contracts not involving
buildings - formal bidding is required when the estimated cost is $30,000 or
greater.
         (c)   Construction, renovation, and repair contracts (G.S. § 143-131)
- formal bidding is required when the estimated cost is $30,000 or greater.
      (2)   (a)   Wilkesboro Local Purchasing Policy and NC General Statutes
requires the following for formal bids:
            1.   Written specifications must be reviewed by Town Manager and/or
legal.
            2.   G.S. §§ 87-1, 87-1.1, 143-139.1 licensed contractor is
required if part of a project worth more than $30,000.
            3.   G.S. § 143-128 separate specifications required for plumbing,
electrical, HVAC and general contractor for contracts costing more than
$300,000 or more (*see more information below).
            4.   G.S. § 143-129 every effort will be made to obtain at least
three bids.
            5.   G.S. § 143-129 newspaper advertising at least seven full days
before bid opening. no local policy for using electronic bids only. This must
be adopted by the Wilkesboro Town Council.
            6.   G.S. § 143-132 bids must be written and sealed.
            7.   G.S. §§ 143-129, 143-131 bids must be sealed for $500,000 or
more.
            8.   G.S. §§ 143-129, 143-131 must keep a record of all bids;
$30,000 or more.
            9.   G.S. §§ 143-129, 143-131 public bid opening required: $500,000
or more.
            10.   G.S. § 143-129 bid bond/ deposit 5% of bid amount is
required.
            11.   G.S. §§ 44A-26, 143-129 performance and payment bonds are
required (100% of bid amount) for contracts costing more than $50,000 that are
part of a project cost more than $300,000.
            12.   G.S. §§ 143-128.3, 143-131 HUB participation goals are
required if:
               a.    Document good faith efforts and report to HUB office for
projects worth $30,000;
               b.   Part of a state funded project worth $100,000 or more;
               c.    Good faith efforts to reach goals, bidders must submit
affidavits so local government (LG) can verify bidders' good faith efforts and
LG to report to HUB efforts for $300,00 or greater.
            13.   G.S. §§ 143-129, 143-131 approval by the Town Council for
$500,000 or more. Local policy - Town Manager approval for any purchase or
service $5,000 and over.
            14.   Local policy - Town Manager approval for any type of
construction, renovations, or repairs.
            15.   Local policy - Town Manager will place purchasing items on
the Town Council agenda for Town Board approval.
            16.   G.S. §§ 143-129, 143-131 awarded to lowest responsive,
responsible bidder (LRRB) while also considering quality, performance, and the
time specified for performance.
            17.   G.S. § 143-128(f)(1) dispute resolution - local government
must adopt own resolution process (including mediation) or process adopted by
the State Building Commission, available to all parties, with amount in
controversy not less than $15,000.
            18.   G.S. §§ 132-1, 132-6, 143-131 public inspection of bids -
bids and the record of bids are not subject to public inspection until contract
award for $500,000 or more.
            19.   Local policy - public/vendors can view any bid after the
contract is awarded.
            20.   G.S. §§ 143-129, 143-131 public bid opening is required for
$500,000 or greater all formal bids must be opened in public. Bids must be
sealed and opening a bid or package with knowledge that it contained a bid or
disclosing the contents without the permission of the bidder prior to the time
set for opening constitutes a Class 1 misdemeanor G.S. § 143-129(b).
            21.   Wilkesboro Town Council will approve formal bid awards based
on recommendation by the Town Manager.
            22.   Wilkesboro Town Council reserves the right to reject any and
all bids.
         (b)   A bidder may request permission to withdraw their bid after the
bids are opened, without forfeiting their bid deposit, if they can produce
credible evidence that the bid was based on a mistake containing a substantial,
unintentional arithmetic error or unintentional omission of work. Withdrawal is
not allowed due to errors in judgment.
         (c)   The request to withdraw must be made no later than 72 hours
(excluding weekends and holidays) after the bid opening. A bidder that requests
that their bid be withdrawn cannot participate in the contract, even if the
project is rebid. This withdrawn bid cannot count in the three bid minimum G.S.
§ 143-129.1.
         (d)   Awards are to be made to the "lowest responsible, responsive
bidder or bidders (LRRB) taking into consideration quality, performance and the
time specified in the proposals for the performance of the contract" G.S. §
143-129(b).
         (e)   In the event the lowest responsive, responsible bid exceeds the
funds available for the project or purchase, negotiations may be held with the
low bidder to make reasonable changes in the plans and specifications to bring
the price within the funds available.
         (f)   *G.S. § 143-128 - building construction preparation of
specifications - every officer, board, department, commission, or commissions
charged with responsibility of preparation of specifications or awarding or
entering into contracts for the erection, construction, alteration, or repair
of any buildings for the state, or for any county, municipality, or other
public body, shall have prepared separate specifications for each of the
following subdivisions or branches of work to be performed:
            1.   Heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and accessories
(separately or combined into one conductive system), refrigeration for cold
storage (where the cold storage cooling load is 15 tons or more of
refrigeration), and all related work.
            2.   Plumbing and gas fittings and accessories, and all related
work.
            3.   Electrical wiring and installations, and all related work.
            4.   General work not included in division (C)(2)(f)1., 2. and 3.
relating to the erection, construction, alteration, or repair of any building.
         (g)   Construction methods: On local public construction projects,
contracts are put out for bid and awarded under one of the following methods:
(1) multi-prime; (2) single- prime; (3) dual bidding-accepting both multi-prime
and single-prime bids; (4) construction management at risk; (5) design-build;
(6) design-build bridging; and (7) public-private partnership.
         (h)   Specifications for contracts that will be bid under the
separate-prime system or dual bidding system shall be drawn as to permit
separate and independent bidding upon each of the subdivisions of work
enumerated in this division. The above enumeration of subdivisions or branches
of work shall not be construed to prevent any officer, board, department,
commission, or commissions from preparing additional separate specifications
for any other category of work.
   (D)   Services.
      (1)   The procurement of professional services performed by architects,
engineers, surveyors, construction manager-at-risk, design-build services, and
public-private partnership construction services is governed by G.S. § 143-
64.31, and is sometimes referred to as the "Mini-Brooks Act," and are
distinguished by the provision of personal performance rather than the delivery
of a tangible item.
      (2)   Local policy - town departments should competitively solicit bids
or proposals when there is a competitive market for the service and when it is
in the best interest of the town. It is the policy of the town to attempt to
obtain at least three competitive quotes before a service contract is awarded.
      (3)   The competition process may be informal or formal. It may be an
RFP, simple written quotes, or other methods that accurately reflect the
competition process. Award should be based on the best overall, justifiable
solution, which may include cost and other factors.
      (4)   For contracts estimated to be $5,000 or more, the Town Manager
should be contacted prior to initiation of the competition process to provide
guidance for the process.
         (a)   Departments are responsible for documenting the competition
process for contracts.
         (b)   A bid summary should be included with the contract when
submitted to finance for contract control.
         (c)   After award of contract - quotes/bids are to be filed in
accounts payable.
         (d)   Service contracts with a contract term longer than one-year
period must have express written consent of the Town Manager.
         (e)   Contracts for services should be subjected to competition every
three to five years unless a business case justifies otherwise.
         (f)   Verbal quotes will not be accepted as meeting the competition
requirement.
   (E)   Design/consultant selection.
      (1)   In certain cases, the town employs the services of an architect,
engineer, surveyor, construction manager-at-risk, design-build, and public-
private construction services to provide services on certain projects. Firms
and/or individuals are to be selected based on "best qualified" criteria.
      (2)   The procurement of these services is defined by G.S. § 143-64.31.
Projects in which the estimated fees are less than $50,000, or other projects
on a case-by-case basis, may be exempt from this requirement by approval from
the Town Board (see G.S. § 143-64.32).
      (3)   Services from:
         (a)   G.S. Chapter 143, Article 3D: architects, engineers, surveyors.
         (b)   G.S. § 143-128.1: construction manager-at-risk.
         (c)   G.S. § 143-128.1A: design-build services.
         (d)   G.S. § 143-128.1B: design-build bridging contracts.
         (e)   G.S. § 143-128.1C: public-private partnership construction
services.
      (4)   Select firm qualified from proposals:
         (a)   Initial proposals: to provide such services on the basis of
demonstrated competence and qualification for the type of professional services
required without regard to fees other than unit price information.
         (b)   After initial bidding/proposals - negotiate a contract for those
services at a fair and reasonable fee with the best qualified firm.
         (c)   If a contract cannot be negotiated with the best qualified firm,
only then can negotiations with that firm shall be terminated and initiated
with the next best qualified firm.
         (d)   Any firm selected shall include the use of good faith efforts by
the public entity to notify minority firms of the opportunity to submit
qualifications for consideration by the public entity.
         (e)   No work product or design may be solicited, submitted, or
considered as part of the selection process under this subchapter; and no costs
or fees, other than unit price information, may be solicited, submitted, or
considered as part of the selection process under this subchapter. Examples of
prior completed work may be solicited, submitted, and considered when
determining demonstrated competence and qualification of professional services;
and discussion of concepts or approaches to the project, including impact on
project schedules, is encouraged.
   (F)   Request for proposals (RFP).
      (1)   The town uses request for proposals (RFP) as a competitive process
or as an alternative to the standard bidding process. Typically, RFPs are used
in situations where:
         (a)   Detailed specifications cannot be or are difficult to develop;
or
         (b)   When obtaining a goal or providing a solution to a problem/issue
is the main objective. G.S. § 143-129.8 provides authority to use the RFP
process as opposed to standard bidding for information technology goods and
services.
      (2)   RFPs can be used in either a formal or informal process. RFPs are
advertised in the same manner as standard bids and the award approval is the
same as standard bids, with the exception of RFPs for G.S. Chapter 143, Article
3D architects, engineers, surveyors, G.S. § 143-128.1 construction manager-at-
risk, G.S. § 143-128.1A design-build services, G.S. § 143-128.1B design-build
bridging contracts, and G.S. § 143-128.1C public-private partnership
construction services. These require additional advertisement, MWBE, and
approval requirements.
   (G)   Exceptions to the bidding requirements.
      (1)   There are exceptions to the bidding requirements that apply to
contracts. Contact the Town Manager to determine whether or not your situation
is applicable. The following are considered exceptions:
         (a)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(1) - purchases from other governmental
agencies within the U.S.
         (b)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(2) - special emergency cases that involve
public health and safety of people or their property- used in rare cases.
         (c)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(3) - competitively bid group purchasing
program.
         (d)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(4) - change order work during the progress of
a project that was initially bid - only for construction or repair contracts.
         (e)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(5) - gasoline, diesel fuel, alcohol fuel,
motor oil, fuel oil or natural gas - informal bids are required.
         (f)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(6) - sole source; requires Town Council
approval and specific criteria must be met.
         (g)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(7) or G.S. § 143-129.8 - information
technology goods and services purchased through the state Office of Information
Technology or using RFPs.
         (h)   G.S. § 143-129 (e)(8) - vendor makes improvements to a public
facility that will generate savings in energy costs sufficient over other term
of contract to pay for the cost of the improvements.
         (i)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(9) - purchase from competitively bid NC State
contracts.
         (j)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(9a) - purchase from competitively bid federal
contracts.
         (k)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(10) - used apparatus, supplies, materials, or
equipment; does not apply to remanufactured, prefabricated or demo items.
         (l)   G.S. § 143-129(e)(11) - construction manager-at-risk (CM@R)
other provisions set forth in G.S. §§ 143-128.1, 143-64.31, 143-129.
         (m)   G.S. § 143-129(g) - piggybacking is contracts that were previous
competitively bid contracts (similar to contracts under G.S. § 143-129), within
the last 12 months, must be same exact product, if the vendor is willing to
extend the same or better prices, terms, and conditions, advertise ten-day
prior notice, and Wilkesboro Town Council must approve contract at regularly
scheduled meeting.
         (n)   G.S. § 143-129(h) - Transportation Authority purchases -
requires Wilkesboro Town Council to approve before using RFP process (must use
RFP process), Wilkesboro Town Council certify the RFP process has been
followed, and Wilkesboro Town Council must approve contract at regularly
scheduled meeting.
         (o)   G.S. § 143-129.2 - solid waste management facilities.
         (p)   G.S. § 143-129.5 - purchases from nonprofit work center for the
blind and severely disabled.
         (q)   G.S. § 143-129.8 - information technology goods and services
combinations as defined under G.S. § 147-33.81(2).
         (r)   G.S. § 143-135 - use of unit's own forces (force work account) -
construction or repair contracts in G.S. § 143-129(b). However, the unit must
still comply with the competitive bidding laws for any equipment, supplies, or
materials that it purchases for this project. Labor and materials must be
within the statutory dollar limits and must be conducted entirely with the
unit's own forces. No dividing any part of the project in order to evade the
limitations.
         (s)   G.S. § 115C-264 - Supplies and food for school food services -
applies to local school units only.
      (2)   Exceptions to bidding requirements shall be specifically documented
by NC General Statute as noted above either on the purchase order or contract
documents.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.26 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   A contract is an agreement between two or more parties with the
intent to be legally bound. There are four elements of a contract: mutual
assent (agreement), consideration (obligation, competent parties, and legality
of purpose. If one of these elements is missing from a contract, the contract
is void and is not enforceable. The town requires that all contracts be in
writing and implied or oral contracts will not be permissible.
      (2)   Contracts are to be used for all types of purchases when the
services or labor portion is the greater amount of the transaction and the
amount paid to the vendor will exceed $5,000 with a business entity,
corporation or governmental entity or will exceed $600 with an individual,
including an individual or partnerships engaging in a business or under an
assumed name or doing business as (dba). This is done by obtaining a W-9 form.
      (3)   Services shall not begin until a fully executed contract is in
place and reviewed by Town Manager and Town Attorney before agreeing and
signing. Before a contract can be processed for payment, all required forms
must be completed, but not limited to accounts payable vendor forms, W-9, and
certificate of insurance has been completed and returned.
      (4)   If both goods and services are included in the same contract, the
"predominant aspect" test is applied. This test is a question of purpose and
not necessarily the relative prices of goods and services covered by the
contract or which purpose is the most. Examples: aerial photography and images/
maps: you cannot get the images/maps without the aerial service. The aerial
service is the predominant aspect of the contract.
      (5)   Multi-year contracts, defined as more than 12 months or crossing
fiscal years (local government fiscal year runs from July 1 thru June 30 of the
next year), requires Town Manager approval.
      (6)   Each year of the contract must be in budgeted and approved through
the budget process in order for funding to be carried over. This is called an
appropriation of funds (for definition, see § 33.23) which is the act of
setting aside money for a specific purpose and local governments appropriate
money in its budget-making processes.
   (B)   Required contract elements. Contracts should define who, what, where,
when, why, how much, and what happens if either party defaults. All town
contracts are required, at a minimum, to address the following:
      (1)   Scope of services - this section provides a detailed description of
the services that will be provided by the vendor.
      (2)   Term (length of time) - this section specifies both beginning and
ending dates or a project start and completion schedule.
      (3)   Maximum amount payable - this section specifies the amount that the
contract payments cannot exceed. Uncertainty as to the amount of the final
obligation under a contract does not excuse the contract from containing a
maximum amount payable.
      (4)   Relationship of parties - this clause clarifies the nature of the
relationship between Town of Wilkesboro and the vendor. This clause confirms
that the contract does not and should not be deemed to create a partnership or
joint venture.
      (5)   Cancellation - this clause gives both parties the right to
terminate the contract upon the occurrence of specified conditions or events.
      (6)   Indemnification - this clause protects the town from any legal
issues related to the vendor performing the contract.
      (7)   Non-appropriation clause - non-appropriation clauses must be
included in any town contract requiring expenditure of town funds and entered
into for terms longer than the then current fiscal year.
      (8)   Non-assignment - this clause prohibits the assignment of specific
rights or of the entire contract to another party without the consent of the
town.
      (9)   Governing law - this clause specifies that any dispute resulting
from the contract shall be determined in accordance with the laws of North
Carolina.
      (10)   Certificate of insurance - in order to control risks arising from
the activities resulting from a business contract, the town requires all
contractors have the following insurance at all times during the term of the
agreement (exceptions may be granted on a case-by-case basis):
         (a)   Provide and maintain in force commercial general liability
insurance covering bodily injury (including death) and property damage
(including contractual liability covering the undersigned's indemnity
obligations), together with worker's compensation, automobile, and employer's
liability insurance in such amounts as shall be required by law.
         (b)   All such insurance shall contain an endorsement naming Town of
Wilkesboro as additional insured.
         (c)   The insurance shall be primary with respect to any claim arising
from or related to the performance or non-performance of the obligations under
the terms of the agreement.
         (d)   A certificate from an insurance company licensed to do business
in the State of North Carolina shall be delivered to Town Clerk at Wilkesboro
Town Hall evidencing the required insurance coverage, which certificate shall
state that such insurance coverage may not be materially changed or cancelled
without at least 30 days prior written notice by certified mail to Town of
Wilkesboro, identifying the person/office to be notified.
      (11)   G.S. § 22B-2 real property improvement dispute venue - prohibits
making a contract subject to the laws of another state or setting exclusive
venue in other state.
      (12)   G.S. § 22B-3 forum selection - prohibits requiring prosecution of
an action or arbitration of a dispute in another state.
      (13)   G.S. § 22B-10 jury trial waiver - prohibits requiring a party to
waive its right to a jury trial (does not prohibit mutually agreed to
mediation, arbitration, or other alternative dispute resolution processes).
      (14)   Incurring third party debt - constitutional limitations on local
government indemnifying obligations of other parties (incurring debt), N.C.
Const. Art. V, Sec. 4.
      (15)   G.S. § 143-133.5 organized labor restrictions - prohibits
discriminating against a bidder or contractor for adhering or not adhering to
an organized labor agreement.
      (16)   G.S. § 160A-20.1(a) employment- related and public accommodation
requirements - prohibits cities and counties from imposing employment-related
requirements on bidders and contractors as a condition of bidding on a contract
G.S. §§ 160A-20.1(a) for cities); 153A-449(a) for counties.
      (17)   G.S. § 143-133.3 e-verify - prohibits local governments from
contracting with contractors and subcontractors not compliant with the state's
e-verify hiring requirement G.S. § 143-133.3. Contractor shall verify, by
affidavit, compliance with the terms of the section upon request by the town.
      (18)   G.S. § 147-86.60 Iran Divestment Act - prohibits local governments
from contracting with an entity that has been identified by the NC State
Treasurer's Office as engaging in Iranian investment activities.
      (19)   G.S. § 147-86.82 Israel Boycott Contracting Prohibition -
prohibits local governments from contracting with a company that has been
identified by the NC State Treasurer's Office as boycotting Israel.
      (20)   G.S. § 22B-1 construction indemnity agreements - prohibits a party
from insulating itself from its own negligence.
      (21)   Does the contract comply with applicable local policies, grant
rules, and federal regulations?
      (22)   G.S. § 14-234(d1) small jurisdiction exception - if it applies,
have all required procedures for contract approval been followed?
      (23)   G.S. § 14-234 conflicts of interest - do any conflicts of interest
exist that would render the contract void?
      (24)   G.S. § 159-28(a) preaudit also see §
33.23.
         (a)   North Carolina General Statutes require that if an obligation is
evidenced by a contract or agreement requiring the payment of money or by
purchase order for supplies and materials, the contract, agreement or purchase
order shall include on its face a certificate stating that the instrument has
been pre-audited to ensure compliance G.S. § 159-28(a).
         (b)   Preaudit certificate must be affixed to all written contracts.
         (c)   Preaudit certificate must be signed by Finance Officer or Deputy
Finance Officer.
         (d)   Contract not containing a valid preaudit certificate is void by
operation of statute.
         (e)   Some question about preaudit certificate requirement if fiscal
obligation is in future year (Meyers v. Town of Plymouth, 135 N.C. App. 707 522
S.E.2d 122 (1999)); safest course is to always include preaudit certificate as
violation can result in personal liability for employee/officer disbursing
funds.
   (C)   Electronic form and electronic signatures. If in electronic form, is
the form valid and if an electronic signature is used, is it in proper form?
      (1)   Most forms of electronic transactions are valid if the parties
agree - Uniform Electronic Transactions Act - Article 40, Chapter 66.
      (2)   Electronic signatures defined and authorized, and procedural
requirements for use Article 11A, Chapter 6.
   (D)   Legal reviews. Contracts for the purchase of goods and/or services
create legal obligations of the town. There are some types of contract
provisions that are prohibited or disfavored. It is the town policy for the
Town Attorney to be consulted and to review of contracts obligating the town
before agreeing, signing, and processing.
   (E)   Interlocal agreements. Interlocal agreements are joint efforts with
other governmental units that are intended to address only complicated or
lasting joint relationships or joint endeavors, such as joint funding,
development and/or operation of a program of facility G.S. § 160A-461. All
interlocal agreements require Town Council approval prior to execution. These
agreements must contain the following elements as set forth in G.S. § 160A-464:
      (1)   The purpose or purposes of the contract or agreement.
      (2)   The duration of the agreement.
      (3)   If a joint agency is established, its composition, organization,
and nature, together with the powers conferred on it.
      (4)   The manner of appointing the personnel necessary to the execution
of the undertaking.
      (5)   The method of financing the undertaking, including the
apportionment of costs and revenues.
      (6)   The formula for ownership of real property involved in the
undertaking, and procedures for the disposition of such property when the
contract or agreement expires or is terminated.
      (7)   Methods for amending the contract or agreement.
      (8)   Methods for terminating the contract or agreement.
      (9)   Any other necessary or proper matter.
   (F)   (1)   Leases. Anytime a government unit enters into a lease of a
capital asset (such as leasing equipment or leasing space in a building) or any
other contract or agreement involving the acquisition or construction of a
capital asset, it must first determine if LGC approval is required pursuant to
G.S. § 159-148.
      (2)   Real property leases.
         (a)   Real property is immovable property - it is building, land, and
anything attached to the land.
         (b)   Lease agreements or formal contracts are not required for rental
of space when the duration is brief (e.g. 14 days or less) and no property
rights are conveyed.
         (c)   The town enters into leases of real property under two
circumstances:
            1.   As lessee (tenant), when the town occupies leased space in
order to conduct town programs or to deliver town services; and
            2.   As lessor (property owner), to authorize a third party to
occupy town-owned property, such as when leasing space in town office
buildings.
         (d)   Town Manager, department head, and consultation from the Town
Attorney will develop and process the leases. The Town Manager can
approve these leases which have a term of one year or less, funding must be
included in the departmental annual budget appropriation.
            1.   Leases with duration of one year or less - the Town Manager
may approve.
            2.   Leases for a term greater than one year - the Town Council
must approve.
            3.   Lease of town property for a term of ten years or more are
treated like the sale of real property and requires special attention.
      (3)   Personal property leases. Personal property is movable; and is not
fixed permanently to one location as with real property, such as land or
buildings. Examples of personal property include vehicles, furniture, and
equipment.
      (4)   Operating lease.
         (a)   An operating lease is a contract wherein the owner, called the
lessor, permits the town (lessee), to rent and use an asset for a particular
period which is usually a period of at least 12 months but shorter than the
economic life of the asset without any transfer of ownership rights.
         (b)   During the rental period, the lessee typically has unrestricted
use of the asset, but is responsible for the condition of the asset at the end
of the lease, when it is returned to the lessor. An operating lease is
especially useful in situations where the town needs to replace its assets on a
recurring basis, and so has a need to swap out old assets for new ones at
regular intervals.
      (5)   Capital lease.
         (a)   A capital lease is required when substantially all of the risk
and benefits of ownership are assumed by the lessee. A lease must be
capitalized if any one of the following four criteria exists:
            1.   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by
the end of the lease term.
            2.   The lease contains a (bargain) purchase option.
            3.   The lease term is equal to 75% or more of the estimated
economic life of the lease property; or
            4.   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the
inception of the lease, excluding executor costs, equals at least 90% of the
fair value of the leased property.
         (b)   A purchase option exists when the lessee can exercise the option
to purchase the property sometime during the term of the lease at an amount
substantially less than the estimated fair value of the property. A "lease-
purchase" transaction must follow the same bidding process as a straight
purchase, if the purchase option may be exercised during the first 60 months.
      (6)   Memorandum of understanding. A memorandum of understanding (MOU)
can be used to set forth the basic principles and guidelines under which the
parties will work together to accomplish their mutual goals. It is considered a
preliminary document to a contract; a contract shall follow detailing the
responsibilities of each party. MOUs must:
         (a)   Identify the contracting parties.
         (b)   Spell out the subject matter of the agreement and its objectives
(the contract should provide more detail).
         (c)   Establish the terms of the agreement.
         (d)   Must be signed by the contracting parties. All MOUs must be
processed through contract control, with a few exceptions that will be
documented in writing by the Procurement Office.
      (7)   Real estate. Approval by the Wilkesboro Town Council is required
for all real estate transactions except re-combinations of town-owned land.
These transactions must be presented to the Wilkesboro Town Board at a public
meeting for approval.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.27 SIGNATURE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority to enter into contracts is assigned to the Town Council
consistent with G.S. § 153A-13. In certain cases, the Board has delegated this
authority to the Town Manager or designee.
   (B)   Contracts not included below must be approved by the Town Council
prior to execution of the contract by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager has the authority to approve and shall sign the
following types of contracts (division (C)(1) through (C)(6)) and cannot
delegate signing authority for contracts:
      (1)   Construction or repair projects that do not require formal
competitive bid procedures ($30,000 to $500,000).
      (2)   Purchases of apparatus, supplies, and materials or equipment that
do not require formal competitive bid procedures (less than $90,000).
      (3)   Operating leases of personal property within budgeted appropriation
(must not qualify as a capital lease).
      (4)   Service contracts within budgeted appropriations.
      (5)   Grant agreements to or from governmental units and other public,
private, or non-profit organizations that are within budgeted appropriations,
unless a granter requires approval and execution by the Town Council.
      (6)   Change orders and amendments to contracts previously approved by
the Town Council, within appropriations, provided the dollar amount of the
contract amendment does not exceed $25,000.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.28 CARD PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Procurement cards.
      (1)   Procurement cards (p-cards) may be used for:
         (a)   Incidental (small value) purchases of goods or services.
         (b)   Travel and training costs at limits approved by a Department
Director or Finance Officer pursuant to the Town of Wilkesboro Procurement Card
Policy.
      (2)   Employees using p-cards must comply with the requirements and
procedures set forth by the Town Finance Department.
      (3)   P-cards are considered an alternative payment tool and not a
procurement method. Use of a p-card does not exempt any town employee from
following the requirements and procedures set forth in this any town policy,
nor does it exempt compliance with applicable statutes, regulations, governing
board directives, policies, procedures, and best practices.
      (4)   Refer to the Town of Wilkesboro P-Card Policy for specific
information related to p-card use.
   (B)   Fuel cards.
      (1)   The fuel card program was established to provide a uniform method
of purchasing fuel for town vehicles. The fuel program administrator is
performed by accounts payable and are responsible for administration of the
program.
      (2)   A fuel card is issued for each town-owned vehicle and a department
miscellaneous card for fuel for equipment such as mowers, chainsaws, etc. Each
card is to remain secured inside the vehicle and used for that vehicle only. Do
not share cards with other vehicles.
      (3)   A fuel personal identification number (PIN) should be issued to
each town employee approved to drive town-owned vehicles by the fuel
administrator. Each driver is responsible for using the appropriate PIN to fuel
vehicles, as necessary. Fuel cards are restricted to purchase fuel only and
shall be used as designated.
      (4)   The card is to be used in the conduct of Town of Wilkesboro
business only. The use of a Town of Wilkesboro fuel card shall only be used to
purchase fuel for town vehicles and equipment. Any other use outside of town
operations is fraudulent use.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.29 FEDERAL & STATE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   North Carolina General Statues allow local policy to be more
restrictive than set forth in general statutes. This policy is more restrictive
regarding bid requirements of services and dollar thresholds for contractual
signatures. Periodically, legislation results in changes to general statutes.
This policy shall be automatically updated upon changes in general statutes
referenced within this policy, except for bid requirements of services and
dollar thresholds for contractual signatures.
   (B)   Contracts funded with federal grant or federal loan funds must be
procured in a manner that conforms with all applicable federal laws, policies,
and standards.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.30 IMPLEMENTATION.
   This policy should be followed in its entirety, as it is used by the
auditors for guidance for the annual audit. The Finance Officer is responsible
for implementing and enforcing this policy and to interpret it consistent with
its spirit and intent, fiscal prudence, and accountability.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.31 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS.
   (A)   Shipping. All invoices must contain FOB destination as they only
shipping option for goods. FOB destination means that the shipper owns the
goods in transit and title passes to the recipient at the recipient's dock. The
shipper is responsible for filing claims if necessary, for loss or damage of
goods.
   (B)   NC sales and use tax.
      (1)   Sections 36 and 37 of the sales and use tax bulletins (SUTB) create
different sales tax rules for different types of governments.
      (2)   The federal government is exempt from paying sales taxes on its
purchases and from charging sales taxes on (most of) its sales.
      (3)   The North Carolina State Government is exempt from paying sales
taxes on (most of) its purchases but must charge sales taxes on its sales of
tangible goods.
      (4)   (a)   Local governments (includes the Town of Wilkesboro) must pay
sales taxes on taxable purchases SUTB § 37-1(A) but request refunds from NC
Dept. of Revenue (DOR) at the end of the year for most sales taxes paid. Just
like the state, local governments must charge sales taxes on their own sales of
tangible goods SUTB § 37-1(C). But note that if a local government purchases
tangible property for resale, the local government is not required to pay sales
taxes on its initial purchase.
         (b)   This table summarizes these different rules:
 
Type of Government           Purchases           Sales
Federal                      Exempt              Exempt (if made to authorized
                                                 purchasers)
North Carolina               Exempt (mostly)     Taxable
Counties, towns, cities, and Taxable (but mostly Taxable
other municipalities         refundable)
For more information, see: https://canons.sog.unc.edu/sales-tax-101-for-local-
governments/
or the
NC DOR website: https://www.ncdor.gov/documents/sales-and-use-tax-bulletins
 
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.32 RELATED POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   Town of Wilkesboro Procurement Card Program Policy.
   (B)   UNC School of GOV Publications.
      (1)   Basic legal requirements for construction.
      (2)   "Most restrictive rule" procurement requirements under the federal
uniform guidance for North Carolina local governments.
      (3)   Comparison of federal uniform guidance and state procurement
requirements for North Carolina local governments.
      (4)   Uniform guidance procurement requirements for North Carolina local
governments webinar questions and answers.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.33 UNIFORM GUIDANCE PROCUREMENT POLICY; FEDERAL PURCHASING FUNDS THROUGH
LOANS, GRANTS, ETC.
   For individual contracts, departments should consult their grant award
documents and with their federal grantor agency to determine whether additional
procurement requirements apply.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines that
meet or exceed the procurement requirements for purchases of goods (apparatus,
supplies, materials, and equipment), services, and construction or repair
projects when federal funds are being used in whole or in part to pay for the
cost of the contract.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Application of policy.
         (a)   This policy applies to contracts for purchases, services, and
construction or repair work funded with federal financial assistance (direct or
reimbursed). The requirements of this policy also apply to any subrecipient of
the funds.
         (b)   All federally funded projects, loans, grants, and sub-grants,
whether funded in part or wholly, are subject to the uniform administrative
requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards
(uniform guidance) codified at 2 CFR Part 200 unless otherwise directed in
writing by the federal agency or state pass-through agency that awarded the
funds.
      (2)   Compliance with federal law. All procurement activities involving
the expenditure of federal funds must be conducted in compliance with the
procurement standards codified in 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.326 unless
otherwise directed in writing by the federal agency or state pass-through
agency that awarded the funds. Town of Wilkesboro will follow all applicable
local, state, and federal
procurement requirements when expending federal funds. Should Town of
Wilkesboro have more stringent requirements, the most restrictive requirement
shall apply so long as it is consistent with state and federal law.
      (3)   Contract award. All contracts shall be awarded only to the lowest
responsive, responsible bidder (LRRB) possessing the ability to perform
successfully under the terms and conditions of the contract.
      (4)   No evasion. No contract may be divided to bring the cost under bid
thresholds or to evade any requirements under this policy or state and federal
law.
      (5)   Contract requirements. All contracts paid for in whole or in part
with federal funds shall be in writing. The written contract must include or
incorporate by reference the provisions required under 2 CFR 200.326 and as
provided for under 2 CFR Part 200, Appendix II.
      (6)   Contractors' conflict of interest. Designers, suppliers, and
contractors that assist in the development or drafting of specifications,
requirements, statements of work, invitation for bids or requests for proposals
shall be excluded from competing for such requirements.
      (7)   Approval and modification. The administrative procedures contained
in this policy are administrative and may be changed as necessary at the staff
level to comply with state and federal law.
   (C)   General procurement standards and procedures. The requesting
department with assistance from the purchasing agent in the Town Finance Office
shall procure all contracts in accordance with the requirements of this section
of the policy.
      (1)   Necessity. Purchases must be necessary to perform the scope of work
and must avoid acquisition of unnecessary or duplicative items in as few
transactions as possible. The requesting department should check with the
federal surplus property agency prior to buying new items when feasible and
less expensive. Strategic sourcing should be considered with other departments
and/or agencies who have similar needs to consolidate procurements and services
to obtain better pricing.
      (2)   Clear specifications. All solicitations must incorporate a clear
and accurate description of the technical requirements for the materials,
products, or services to be procured, and shall include all other requirements
which bidders must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids
or proposals. Technical requirements must not contain features that restrict
competition.
      (3)   Notice of federal funding. All bid solicitations must acknowledge
the use of federal funding for the contract. In addition, all prospective
bidders or offerors must acknowledge that funding is contingent upon compliance
with all terms and conditions of the funding award.
      (4)   Compliance by contractors. All solicitations shall inform
prospective contractors that they must comply with all applicable federal laws,
regulations, executive orders, and terms and conditions of the funding award.
      (5)   Fixed price. Solicitations must state that bidders shall submit
bids on a fixed price basis and that the contract shall be awarded on this
basis unless otherwise provided for in this policy. Cost plus percentage of
cost contracts are prohibited. Time and materials contracts are prohibited in
most circumstances. Time and materials contracts will not be used unless no
other form of contract is suitable and the contract includes a "not to exceed"
amount. A time and materials contract shall not be awarded without express
written permission of the federal agency or state pass-through agency that
awarded the funds.
      (6)   Use of brand names. When possible, performance or functional
specifications are preferred to allow for more competition leaving the
determination of how the reach the required result to the contractor. Brand
names may be used only when it is impractical or uneconomical to write a clear
and accurate description of the requirement(s). When a brand name is listed, it
is used as reference only and "or equal" must be included in the description.
      (7)   Lease versus purchase. Under certain circumstances, it is necessary
to perform an analysis of lease versus purchase alternatives to determine the
most economical approach.
      (8)   Dividing contract for MWBE participation. If economically feasible,
procurement may be divided into smaller components to allow maximum
participation of small and minority businesses and women business enterprises.
The procurement cannot be divided to bring the cost under bid thresholds or to
evade any requirements under this policy.
      (9)   Documentation. Documentation must be maintained in a notebook
detailing the history of all procurements. The documentation should include the
procurement method used, contract type, basis for contractor selection, price,
sources solicited, public notices, cost analysis, bid documents, addenda,
amendments, contractor's responsiveness, notice of award, copies of notices to
unsuccessful bidders or offerers, record of protests or disputes, bond
documents, notice to proceed, purchase order, and contract. All documentation
relating to the award of any contract should be turned into Finance Department
and must be made available to the granting agency upon request. The audit of
federal funds could be three to six years in the future so good documentation
will go a long way to keep the town from having to pay back the funding.
      (10)   Cost estimate. For all procurements costing $250,000 or more, the
requesting department along with the Town Manager and Finance Officer shall
develop an estimate of the cost of the procurement prior to soliciting bids.
Cost estimates may be developed by reviewing prior contract costs, on line
review of similar products or services, or other means by which a good faith
cost estimate may be obtained. Cost estimates for construction and repair
contracts may be developed by the project designer.
      (11)   Contract requirements. The requesting department must prepare a
written contract incorporating the provisions referenced in division (B)(3) of
this section.
      (12)   Debarment. No contract shall be awarded to a contractor included
on the federally debarred bidder's list.
      (13)   Contractor oversight. The requesting department receiving the
federal funding must maintain oversight of the contract to ensure that
contractor is performing in accordance with the contract terms, conditions, and
specifications.
      (14)   Open competition. Solicitations shall be prepared in a way to be
fair and provide open competition. The procurement process shall not restrict
competition by imposing unreasonable requirements on bidders, including but not
limited to unnecessary supplier experience, excessive or unnecessary bonding,
specifying a brand name without allowing for "or equal" products, or other
unnecessary requirements that have the effect of restricting competition.
      (15)   Geographic preference. A contract shall not be awarded on the
basis of a geographic preference.
   (D)   Specific procurement procedures. The requesting department with
assistance from the Finance Officer shall solicit bids in accordance with the
requirements under this section of the policy based on the type and cost of the
contract.
      (1)   Service contracts (except for A/E professional services) and
purchase contracts costing less than $10,000 shall be procured using the
uniform guidance "micro-purchase" procedure (2 CFR 200.320(a)) as follows:
         (a)   The contract may be awarded without soliciting pricing or bids
if the price of the goods or services is considered to be fair and reasonable.
         (b)   To the extent practicable, purchases must be distributed among
qualified suppliers.
         (c)   Contract must be in writing (this could be in the form of a
purchase order).
      (2)   Service contracts (except for A/E professional services) and
purchase contracts costing $10,000 up to $90,000 shall be procured using the
uniform guidance "small purchase" procedure (2 CFR 200.320(b)) as follows:
         (a)   Obtain price or rate quotes from an "adequate number" of
qualified sources (a federal grantor agency might issue guidance interpreting
"adequate number," so the requesting department should review the terms and
conditions of the grant award documents to confirm whether specific guidance
has been issued).
         (b)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as required under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (c)   Cost or price analysis is not required prior to soliciting bids.
         (d)   Award the contract on a fixed-price basis (a not-to-exceed basis
is permissible for service contracts where obtaining a fixed price is not
feasible).
         (e)   Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder.
      (3)   Service contracts (except for A/E professional services) and
purchase contracts costing $90,000 and above shall be procured using a
combination of the most restrictive requirements of the uniform guidance
"sealed bid" procedure (2 CFR 200.320(c)) and state formal bidding procedures
(GS § 143-129) as follows:
         (a)   Cost or price analysis is required prior to soliciting bids.
         (b)   Complete specifications or purchase description must be made
available to all bidders.
         (c)   The bid must be formally advertised in a newspaper of general
circulation for at least seven full days between the date of the advertisement
and the date of the public bid opening. Electronic-only advertising must be
authorized by the governing board. The advertisement must state the date, time,
and location of the public bid opening, indicate where specifications may be
obtained, and reserve to the governing board the right to reject any or all
bids only for "sound documented reasons."
         (d)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as required under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (e)   Open bids at the public bid opening on the date, time, and at
the location noticed in the public advertisement. All bids must be submitted
sealed. A minimum of two bids must be received in order to open all bids. Award
the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder on a fixed-price
basis. Governing board approval is required for purchase contracts unless the
governing board has delegated award authority to an individual official or
employee. Any and all bids may be rejected only for "sound documented reasons."
      (4)   Service contracts (except for A/E professional services) costing
$250,000 and above may be procured using the uniform guidance "competitive
proposal" procedure (2 CFR 200.320(d)) when the "sealed bid" procedure is not
appropriate for the particular type of service being sought. The procedures are
as follows:
         (a)   A request for proposals (RFP) must be publicly advertised.
Formal advertisement in a newspaper is not required so long as the method of
advertisement will solicit proposals from an "adequate number" of qualified
firms.
         (b)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as provided under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (c)   Identify evaluation criteria and relative importance of each
criteria (criteria weight) in the RFP.
         (d)   Consider all responses to the publicized RFP to the maximum
extent practical.
         (e)   Must have a written method for conducting technical evaluations
of proposals and selecting the winning firm.
         (f)   Award the contract to the responsible firm with most
advantageous proposal considering price and other factors identified in the
RFP. Governing board approval is not required.
         (g)   Award the contract on a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement basis.
      (5)   Construction and repair contracts costing less than $10,000 shall
be procured using the uniform guidance "micro-purchase" procedure (2 CFR
200.320(a)) as follows:
         (a)   The contract may be awarded without soliciting pricing or bids
if the price of the goods or services is considered to be fair and reasonable.
         (b)   To the extent practicable, contracts must be distributed among
qualified suppliers.
      (6)   Construction and repair contracts costing $10,000 up to $250,000
shall be procured using the uniform guidance "small purchase" procedure (2 CFR
200.320(b)) as follows:
         (a)   Obtain price or rate quotes from an "adequate number" of
qualified sources (a federal grantor agency might issue guidance interpreting
"adequate number," so the requesting department should review the terms and
conditions of the grant award documents to confirm whether specific guidance
has been issued).
         (b)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as required under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (c)   Cost or price analysis is not required prior to soliciting bids,
although price estimates may be provided by the project designer.
         (d)   Award the contract on a fixed-price or not-to-exceed basis.
         (e)   Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder.
Governing board approval is not required.
      (7)   Construction and repair contracts costing $250,000 up to $500,000
shall be procured using the uniform guidance "sealed bid" procedure (2 CFR
200.320(c)) as follows:
         (a)   Cost or price analysis is required prior to soliciting bids
(this cost estimate may be provided by the project designer).
         (b)   Complete specifications must be made available to all bidders.
         (c)   Publicly advertise the bid solicitation for a period of time
sufficient to give bidders notice of opportunity to submit bids (formal
advertisement in a newspaper is not required so long as other means of
advertising will provide sufficient notice of the opportunity to bid). The
advertisement must state the date, time, and location of the public bid
opening, and indicate where specifications may be obtained.
         (d)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as provided under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (e)   Open the bids at the public bid opening on the date, time, and
at the location noticed in the public advertisement. All bids must be submitted
sealed. A minimum of two bids must be received in order to open all bids.
         (f)   A 5% bid bond is required of all bidders. Performance and
payment bonds of 100% of the contract price is required of the winning bidder.
         (g)   Award the contract on a firm fixed-price basis.
         (h)   Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder.
Governing board approval is not required. Any and all bids may be rejected only
for "sound documented reasons."
      (8)   Construction and repair contracts costing $500,000 and above shall
be procured using a combination of the most restrictive requirements of the
Uniform Guidance "sealed bid" procedure (2 CFR 200.320(c)) and state formal
bidding procedures (G.S. § 143-129) as follows:
         (a)   Cost or price analysis is required prior to soliciting bids
(this cost estimate should be provided by the project designer).
         (b)   Complete specifications must be made available to all bidders.
         (c)   Formally advertise the bid in a newspaper of general circulation
for at least seven full days between the date of the advertisement and the date
of the public bid opening. Electronic-only advertising must be authorized by
the governing board. The advertisement must state the date, time, and location
of the public bid opening, indicate where specifications may be obtained, and
reserve to the governing board the right to reject any or all bids only for
"sound documented reasons."
         (d)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as provided under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (e)   Open the bids at the public bid opening on the date, time, and
at the location noticed in the public advertisement. All bids must be submitted
sealed and in paper form. A minimum of three bids must be received in order to
open all bids.
         (f)   A 5% bid bond is required of all bidders (a bid that does not
include a bid bond cannot be counted toward the three-bid minimum requirement).
Performance and payment bonds of 100% of the contract price is required of the
winning bidder.
         (g)   Award the contract on a firm fixed-price basis.
         (h)   Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder.
Governing board approval is required and cannot be delegated. The governing
board may reject and all bids only for "sound documented reasons."
      (9)   Construction or repair contracts involving a building costing
$300,000 and above must comply with the following additional requirements under
state law:
         (a)   Formal HUB (historically underutilized business) participation
required under G.S. § 143-128.2, including local government outreach efforts
and bidder good faith efforts, shall apply.
         (b)   Separate specifications shall be drawn for the HVAC, electrical,
plumbing, and general construction work as required under G.S. § 143-128(a).
         (c)   The project shall be bid using a statutorily authorized bidding
method (separateprime, single-prime, or dual bidding) as required under G.S. §
143-129(a)(1).
      (10)   Contracts for architectural and engineering services costing under
$250,000 shall be procured using the state "Mini-Brooks Act" requirements (G.S.
§ 143-64.31) as follows:
         (a)   Issue a request for qualifications (RFQ) to solicit
qualifications from qualified firms (formal advertisement in a newspaper is not
required). Price (other than unit cost) shall not be solicited in the RFQ.
         (b)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as provided for under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (c)   Evaluate the qualifications of respondents based on the
evaluation criteria developed by the purchasing department and/or requesting
department.
         (d)   Rank respondents based on qualifications and select the best
qualified firm. Price cannot be a factor in the evaluation. Preference may be
given to in-state (but not local) firms.
         (e)   Negotiate fair and reasonable compensation with the best
qualified firm. If negotiations are not successfully, repeat negotiations with
the second-best qualified firm.
         (f)   Award the contract to best qualified firm with whom fair and
reasonable compensation has been successfully negotiated. Governing board
approval is not required.
      (11)   Contracts for architectural and engineering services costing
$250,000 or more shall be procured using the uniform guidance "competitive
proposal" procedure (2 CFR 200.320(d)(5)) as follows:
         (a)   Publicly advertise a request for qualifications (RFQ) to solicit
qualifications from qualified firms (formal advertisement in a newspaper is not
required). Price (other than unit cost) shall not be solicited in the RFQ.
         (b)   Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE
vendors and suppliers as provided under 2 CFR 200.321.
         (c)   Identify the evaluation criteria and relative importance of each
criteria (the criteria weight) in the RFQ.
         (d)   Proposals must be solicited from an "adequate number of
qualified sources" (an individual federal grantor agency may issue guidance
interpreting "adequate number").
         (e)   Must have a written method for conducting technical evaluations
of proposals and selecting the best qualified firm.
         (f)   Consider all responses to the publicized RFQ to the maximum
extent practical.
         (g)   Evaluate qualifications of respondents to rank respondents and
select the most qualified firm. Preference may be given to in-state (but not
local) firms provided that granting the preference leaves an appropriate number
of qualified firms to compete for the contract given the nature and size of the
project.
         (h)   Price cannot be a factor in the initial selection of the most
qualified firm.
         (i)   Once the most qualified firm is selected, negotiate fair and
reasonable compensation. If negotiations are not successfully, repeat
negotiations with the second-best qualified firm.
         (j)   Award the contract to best qualified firm with whom fair and
reasonable compensation has been successfully negotiated. Governing board
approval is not required.
      (12)   Exceptions. Non-competitive contracts are allowed only under the
following conditions and with the written approval of the federal agency or
state pass-through agency that awarded the federal funds:
         (a)   Sole source. A contract may be awarded without competitive
bidding when the item is available from only one source. The purchasing
department and/or requesting department shall document the justification for
and lack of available competition for the item. A sole source contract must be
approved by the governing board.
         (b)   Public exigency. A contract may be awarded without competitive
bidding when there is a public exigency. A public exigency exists when there is
an imminent or actual threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and the
need for the item will not permit the delay resulting from a competitive
bidding.
         (c)   Inadequate competition. A contract may be awarded without
competitive bidding when competition is determined to be inadequate after
attempts to solicit bids from a number of sources as required under this policy
does not result in a qualified winning bidder.
         (d)   Federal contract. A contract may be awarded without competitive
bidding when the purchase is made from a federal contract available on the U.S.
General Services Administration schedules of contracts.
         (e)   Awarding agency approval. A contract may be awarded without
competitive bidding with the express written authorization of the federal
agency or state pass-through agency that awarded the federal funds so long as
awarding the contract without competition is consistent with state law.
(Res. 2020-16, passed 8-3-2020)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Social Security
   
34.02   Life and hospital insurance
   
34.03   Pension for firefighters
   
34.04   Criminal history checks
§ 34.01 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby extends to all eligible employees of
the town and eligible groups and classes of employees the benefits authorized
by Title II of the Federal Social Security Act, as amended, and as authorized
by G.S. Art. 2, Ch. 135.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies anew the plan heretofore
submitted to and ratified by the state agency, as the plan may have been
amended from time to time, under the provisions of G.S. § 135-23, and a true
copy of the plan is and shall remain on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
§ 34.02 LIFE AND HOSPITAL INSURANCE.
   The Town Treasurer is authorized to pay the premium on the group life and
hospital insurance carried by the town for its employees, and is authorized to
deduct premiums on the employees’ covered dependents from their salaries and
remit same to the insurance carrier if the employee wishes to carry insurance
coverage for his or her eligible dependents under the town’s group policy.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
§ 34.03 PENSION FOR FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Town Board of the Town of Wilkesboro hereby implements the act by
providing that payments under the act shall be made beginning with the month of
July, 1985, with payment under the act to be made for the month of July, 1985;
as soon after August 1, 1985 as the Administrative Department of the Town of
Wilkesboro can make payments to the persons certified to be eligible for
payment; and the Town Clerk is authorized to proceed with the payments on and
after August 1, 1985 for the month of July, 1985; for those who are certified
to be eligible for payment in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
Bill.
   (B)   There is established a Supplemental Pension Fund for the Fire
Department of the Town of Wilkesboro to be known as the Wilkesboro
Firefighter’s Supplemental Pension Fund, hereinafter referred to as
Supplemental Pension Fund, and to be administered by a Board composed of the
members of the trustees of the Firefighter’s Relief Fund of the Town of
Wilkesboro, established in accordance with G.S. §§ 58-84-1 through 58-88-30.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. § 118-7, all funds in the
Firefighter’s Relief Fund of the Town of Wilkesboro in excess of $5,000 shall
be transferred to the Supplementary Pension Fund prior to January 1, and prior
to January 1 of each calendar year thereafter, so as to retain in the
Firefighter’s Relief Fund an amount of money not greater than $5,000; provided,
however, the Firefighter’s Relief Fund shall have restored the sums from
recurring annual receipts as are necessary to maintain a fund of not less than
$5,000; provided further, of the funds and subsequent recurring increments
transferred from the Firefighter’s Relief Fund of the Town of Wilkesboro to the
Supplemental Pension Fund, any or all of the same shall be retrievable by and
to the Firefighter’s Relief Fund of the Town of Wilkesboro in order to defray
and meet the legitimate claims accruing under the provisions and coverage of
the Firefighter’s Relief Fund of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (D)   Any person who is a member of the Wilkesboro Fire Department, or a
retired member of the Wilkesboro Fire Department, as shown by the records of
the Town of Wilkesboro at the time of ratification of this act, or any person
who becomes a member, or any firefighter of the Town of Wilkesboro who has
become totally and permanently disabled and who has served as a firefighter of
the Town of Wilkesboro for 5 or more years is eligible for benefits from the
Supplemental Pension Fund; provided that the person has been retired as a
member of the Wilkesboro Fire Department under the provisions of the North
Carolina Firefighter’s and Rescue Squad Workers’ Pension Fund as set out in
Article 3, Chapter 118 of the General Statutes of North Carolina and as
participated in by the Town of Wilkesboro, or as a voluntary member of the Fire
Department of the Town of Wilkesboro, or has left service because of the total
and permanent disability described in this section. This act does not modify or
alter in any way the Worker’s Compensation Laws of this state.
   (E)   Any member who has served 20 years as a firefighter in the Wilkesboro
Fire Department and has attained the age of 55 or who has served for 5 or more
years and has become totally and permanently disabled is entitled to receive a
monthly pension from the Supplemental Pension Fund. This monthly pension shall
be in the amount of $75 per month. If, for any reason, the fund shall be
insufficient to pay in full any pension benefits or other charges, then all
benefits shall be reduced pro rata for as long as the deficiency in amount
exists. No claim shall accrue with respect to any amount by which a benefit
payment shall have been reduced.
   (F)   The Treasurer of the Board of Trustees of the Wilkesboro Firefighter’s
Relief Fund shall, from time to time, pay to the City Clerk sufficient funds
from the Supplemental Pension Fund to pay the beneficiaries on the first day of
each and every month any monies the beneficiaries are entitled to under the
provisions of this act.
   (G)   The Treasurer of the Firefighter’s Relief Fund of the Town of
Wilkesboro, as custodian of the Supplementary Pension Fund, shall be required
to give a bond with an indemnity company authorized to do business in the State
of North Carolina as surety in a sum equal to the maximum amount estimated by
the Board of Trustees as likely to be in his or her possession as custodian at
any time within the fiscal year for which the bond is given. This bond is in
lieu of the bond required by G.S. § 118-6. The condition of the bond shall be
that the custodian shall faithfully receive, keep, disburse and account for, as
provided in this act, all funds and property coming into his or her hands as
custodian, and the premiums on the bond shall, be paid by the Town of
Wilkesboro.
   (H)   The custodian of the Supplemental Pension Fund shall invest all monies
coming into his or her possession belonging to the Supplemental Pension Fund,
except so much as the Board of Trustees from time to time determine is
reasonably necessary for the prompt payment of claims and expenses in
securities as the Board of Trustees shall select. These securities shall be
limited to those named in or authorized by either G.S. § 159-30 or G.S. § 159-
31. Investments in certificates of deposit or time deposits in any bank or
trust company or savings and loan associations shall not exceed the amount
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation, unless these deposits or investments in shares are
secured in the manner provided by G.S. § 159-30 or G.S. § 159-31.
   (I)   The Board of Trustees may accept any gift, grant, bequest or devise or
any real or personal property or other instrument of value for the use of the
Supplementary Pension Fund.
   (J)   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are repealed.
   (K)   None of the provisions of this chapter shall create a liability for
the Wilkesboro Firefighter’s Supplemental Pension Fund unless sufficient
current assets are available in the fund to pay fully for the liability.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1986)
§ 34.04 CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS.
   In order to protect the citizens of the town and their properties, the
procedures herein are established to provide for fingerprinting and criminal
history checks on all final applicants for regular full and part-time positions
in the town government. Employment with the town may be denied for those
persons convicted of any crime against a person, or crimes against property
where intent is an element, or any drug or gambling related offense.
   (A)   The Town Manager, or designee, shall conduct an investigation of any
final candidate for a permanent full-time or part-time position with the town
government and it shall be a precondition of employment that an applicant for
such a position shall upon request, provide fingerprints and all other
necessary personal identification including a birth certificate, social
security number and drivers license, if available, so that the Town Manager, or
designee, may cause a thorough search to be made of local and state criminal
records to determine if the applicant had a history of criminal convictions or
the crimes enumerated above by the use of the Division of Criminal Information
Network (DCI).
   (B)   The Police Department shall provide the findings from the use of the
DCI to the Town Manager, or designee, provided that all necessary agreements
with the State Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal Information have
been executed.
   (C)   An evaluation of any crime for purpose of employment will take into
account the nature and the circumstances of the offense and the time frame of
the offense as it relates to the essential job functions for the position
applied.
(Ord. passed 7-9-2007)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
35.01   When state of emergency deemed to exist
   
35.02   Proclamation by Mayor; restrictions authorized
   
35.03   Limitations and exemptions authorized in proclamation
   
35.04   Extension, amendment and repeal of proclamation
   
35.05   Authority to request police/military; martial law
   
35.06   Termination of restrictions and emergency
   
35.07   Required compliance with proclamation
§ 35.01 WHEN STATE OF EMERGENCY DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, the public safety authorities of the town are unable
to maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
§ 35.02 PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized in division (B)
of this section.
   (B)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, roadway or upon
any other public property, except by those in search of medical assistance,
food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-being of
themselves or their families or some member thereof;
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly; and/
or
      (7)   Prohibit or regulate by what is commonly called a curfew, persons
being upon any or all streets, sidewalks, public places and vacant lots within
the town during periods of the day or night, or both day and night, as he or
she may specify.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Riots and civil disorders, see G.S. §§ 14-281.1 to 14-288.11, 14-288.18
§ 35.03 LIMITATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS AUTHORIZED IN PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation
the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area specifically
designated or described within the limits of the town and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the restrictions law
enforcement officers; firefighters and other public employees, doctors, nurses,
employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel
whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities, public
transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and
television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and other classes of
persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
§ 35.04 EXTENSION, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
§ 35.05 AUTHORITY TO REQUEST POLICE/MILITARY; MARTIAL LAW.
   If, in the sound discretion of the Mayor, it shall appear that the emergency
is, or that the threatened emergency is likely to be, of proportions that the
means available to the town to maintain law and order are insufficient for that
purpose, the Mayor shall, promptly and by the most expeditious means of
communication, inform the Governor of the situation and request that necessary
police or military forces of the state be provided promptly; and if, during an
actual state of emergency, the Mayor shall find that the civil courts having
jurisdiction within the town are unable to perform their lawful duties and
that, by reason of widespread lawlessness, writs and other processes cannot be
served or executed in the town, the Mayor shall inform the Governor of his or
her findings and may recommend to him or her that a state of martial law be
proclaimed to exist within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
§ 35.06 TERMINATION OF RESTRICTIONS AND EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
§ 35.07 REQUIRED COMPLIANCE WITH PROCLAMATION.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY; WATER AND SEWERS
         
51.   GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE
         
52.   ELECTRICITY
         
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY; WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Regulations
   
50.001   Prohibited acts
   
50.002   Property owners; expense of opening obstructed sewer line
   
50.003   Properties required to be connected to town sewer/water mains
   
50.004   Privies, privy vaults, cesspools and septic tanks
   
50.005   Meters/measuring devices; installation, maintenance and control
Tapping of Mains
   
50.015   Applications for taps
   
50.016   Sewer tap fees
   
50.017   Water tap fees
   
50.018   When and by whom taps to be made
Deposits, Charges and Billings
   
50.030   Initial deposit; purpose, amount and when payable
   
50.031   Deposit upon disconnection of service
   
50.032   Duty of customer to notify town when service to be disconnected
   
50.033   Water rates; meters
   
50.034   Sewer rental charges; properties using/not using town water
   
50.035   Sewer rental charges when water not discharged into town sewers
   
50.036   Properties not affected
   
50.037   Water supplied by town; billing; payment; penalties
   
50.038   Sewer rental charges; billing; payment; penalties
   
50.039   Disconnection for late payment
Watershed
   
50.050   Statement and purpose
   
50.051   Definitions
   
50.052   Radioactive materials and pollutants
   
50.053   In case of declaration it be unconstitutional
   
50.054   Violations
Water Tanks; Installation Standards for Antennas and the Like
   
50.080   Contractor qualifications
   
50.081   Health and safety
   
50.082   General workmanship
   
50.083   Welding and painting
   
50.084   Electrical
   
50.085   Equipment
   
50.086   Inspections and approvals
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 50.001 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person without having proper
authority to touch, tamper or in any manner manipulate or turn the cut-offs on
the water mains, water meters or fire hydrants forming a part of the water
system of the town, nor shall any person without having proper authority tamper
with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water or sewer line, water meter,
sewer manhole, fire hydrant or any appurtenances thereto. No person shall throw
or deposit any material or substance in any water or sewer line that will in
any manner obstruct a line.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person without having proper authority
to, in any manner interfere with or injure any filter, coagulating tank or
clear water basin, or any standpipe or any other materials, device or
attachment used in connection therewith; or to climb upon the top of any
standpipe, coagulating tank, clear water basin; or throw in or against
standpipe, filter, coagulating tank or clear water basin, rocks, sticks or
other material of any kind whatsoever.
      (3)   Neither the exhaust, blowoff, drip line or sediment from any
boiler, nor the discharge of large volumes of hot water from any source, shall
be discharged into the town sewer system; pipes may first discharge into a
basin, properly trapped and vented, which, after being relieved of sediment,
pressure or high temperature, may discharge into a town sewer. Water over 120°F
shall not be admitted to the sewer.
   (B)   The governing authority shall have a right to prevent any discharge
into system and notify the user to halt any discharge which would contaminate
or be likely to contaminate the Publicly Owned Treatment Works or POTW and
prevent its continued discharge into the system; the governing authority in
charge of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works or POTW shall have the right to
impose civil or criminal penalties for non-compliance against the user of the
system, and assess against any offending party a penalty of at least $1,000 per
violation per day against industrial users that violate pre-treatment standards
and requirements. Each successive day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense. In addition the governing body in charge of the POTW shall
have a further right to bring an action in the proper jurisdiction of the
courts, state or federal, for injunctive relief against the offending party or
parties.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Am. Ord. passed 4-3-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.002 PROPERTY OWNERS; EXPENSE OF OPENING OBSTRUCTED SEWER LINE.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to open any sewer lines which have become
choked or obstructed by material being placed in them that will not dissolve,
and the fault of that is the property owner or the party using the property,
the property owner shall be liable to the town for damage and shall bear the
expense of opening the sewer.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)
§ 50.003 PROPERTIES REQUIRED TO BE CONNECTED TO TOWN SEWER/WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Each owner of a house or other structure within the town which is used
or intended for use as a place of human habitation, occupancy or activity and
which is situated on a lot which abuts a street or right of way wherein there
is a public sewer or water main within 200 feet of the property line of the lot
shall connect the house or other structure to the public sewer and to the
public water main; provided that no person shall be required to cross the
private property of another person to make any connection.
   (B)   When a public sewer or water main has been laid to within 200 feet of
any property within the town upon which there is a house or other structure
which is used or intended for use as a place of human habitation, occupancy or
activity, it shall be the duty of the owner of the house or other structure to
have it connected to the public sewer or water main; and any owner, having been
notified by the Town Clerk to make the connection, shall do so within 60 days
from the service of the notice.
   (C)   Each day of violation or failure to comply with the provisions of this
section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)
§ 50.004 PRIVIES, PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, install, maintain or use any
privy, privy vault or cesspool; and septic tanks shall be lawful only on
properties not required to be connected to the town sanitary sewer system, and
then only when of a type approved by the state and county health authorities,
and installed in locations and in a manner as to meet the requirements and
approval of the state and county health authorities.
(Prior Code, § 16-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.005 METERS/MEASURING DEVICES; INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   All meters or other measuring devices installed or required to be used under
the provisions of this chapter shall be under the control of the Director of
Public Works. The owner of the property upon which measuring device is
installed shall be responsible for its maintenance and safekeeping, and all
repairs thereto shall be made at the owner's cost.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
TAPPING OF MAINS
§ 50.015 APPLICATIONS FOR TAPS.
   All applications for water and sewer taps shall be made at the office of the
Town Clerk, who shall issue permits upon payment of the full amount of fees as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)
§ 50.016 SEWER TAP FEES.
   The minimum amount to be charged and collected from property owners for each
sewer connection made by the town shall be an amount as may be from time to
time established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 16-7)
§ 50.017 WATER TAP FEES.
   The amount to be charged and collected from property owners for water taps
shall be in accordance with the schedule that may from time to time be
established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 16-8)
§ 50.018 WHEN AND BY WHOM TAPS TO BE MADE.
   After permits have been issued and the required amount of fees have been
paid, the Director of Public Works shall be notified that permits have been
issued, and it shall then be his or her duty to make taps or cause taps to be
made as soon as practicable after he or she has received notice from the Town
Clerk that the permits have been issued.
(Prior Code, § 16-9)
DEPOSITS, CHARGES AND BILLINGS
§ 50.030 INITIAL DEPOSIT; PURPOSE, AMOUNT AND WHEN PAYABLE.
   (A)   Prior to turning on the water supply from a town water main to any
premises connected therewith, the owner or occupant of the premises shall
deposit with the Town Treasurer a sum estimated to be the average of the
tenant’s expected water bill for a period of 2 months or for residential
premises, $10, or for business premises $25, whichever is greater in either
case. This deposit shall be chargeable for the person's water and sewer service
bills that may become delinquent, and for any repairs to town water meters or
town sewer and water installations for which he or she may be responsible; and
should the amount of the deposit at any time fall below the minimum amount as
above stated, the person shall, upon notice from the Town Treasurer, deposit
the amount as may be necessary to restore the deposit to its required minimum
balance.
(Prior Code, § 16-10)
   (B)   A connection fee of $10 and deposit of $30 are required. The $30
deposit is refundable when a water customer moves if the customer has no unpaid
balance.
   (C)   Companies that wish to use town water must fill up at 1 central
location, namely the water plant, once the necessary equipment is in place.
This will be by August 1, 1989.
(Meeting 7-10-1989)
§ 50.031 DEPOSIT UPON DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Upon the discontinuance of water service to any premises, the deposit
required by §
50.030, or so much thereof as may be in excess of any charges against it as
provided in §
50.030, shall be refunded to the depositor, his or her heirs, personal
representatives or assigns, upon giving receipt therefor to the Town Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 16-11)
§ 50.032 DUTY OF CUSTOMER TO NOTIFY TOWN WHEN SERVICE TO BE DISCONNECTED.
   It shall be the duty of each person in whose name town water service is
billed to give notice, not less than 2 days, to the Town Clerk, when water
service is for any reason to be discontinued or is to be transferred to the
name of another person.
(Prior Code, § 16-12)
§ 50.033 WATER RATES; METERS.
   (A)   The water rates of the town, for water furnished to consumers, shall
be as provided by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Commissioners from
time to time, and a copy of each ordinance or resolution shall be placed on
file in the office of the Town Clerk; and the water rates in effect immediately
prior to the effective date of this code shall continue in effect until altered
by ordinance or resolution pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Water rates shall be applied to each individual meter, and where more
than 1 building is served from 1 meter, the minimum charge will apply to each
building; provided that any separate dwelling or place of business constructed
after July 1, 1952, shall be connected to the water system of the town through
a separate meter.
(Prior Code, § 16-13)
   (C)   The minimum charge shall apply to each tenant of a single building or
apartment, whether the same is fed from a central meter or an individual meter.
The meter shall be installed at the owner’s expense, should the owner or owners
desire to have each apartment metered; however, if no meter is installed by the
owner, the owner shall be responsible for the water bill for each apartment fed
into the building. The same shall be charged to the owner of the building, the
same as if each apartment is metered.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-1-1987)
§ 50.034 SEWER RENTAL CHARGES; PROPERTIES USING/NOT USING TOWN WATER.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a sewer rental charge, for the use of the town
sewers, upon the owners or tenants of the properties served thereby. This
charge shall be at a rate that may be established from time to time by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 16-14)
   (B)   For a property which uses water, all or part of which is from a source
other than the town's water supply system, there shall be a sewer rental
charge, separate from and in addition to any sewer rental based on the
consumption of water from the town's water supply system. The separate and
additional sewer rental shall be measured by the quantity of water from the
source other than the town's water supply system, which is discharged into the
town's sewers from the property. The owner of each property shall install,
without cost to the town, a meter or meters to measure the quantity of water
received from other than the town’s water supply system and discharged into the
town’s sewers. No meter shall be installed or be used for that purpose without
the approval of the Director of Public Works; and the owner of that property
shall pay for the water so discharged into the town’s sewers an amount as
though all water came from the town’s water supply system. If the owner of the
property fails to install and maintain at the owner's expense an approved meter
or meters, the Director of Public Works shall make an estimate of the amount of
water from sources other than the town’s water supply system which is
discharged into the town’s sewers from the property, using the consumption from
similar operations, and if none, a formula based upon the operations of the
business of the occupant of the premises as a standard and bill estimated water
so discharged into the town's sewer as though the same were metered.
(Prior Code, § 16-15)
§ 50.035 SEWER RENTAL CHARGES WHEN WATER NOT DISCHARGED INTO TOWN SEWERS.
   Whenever a property upon which the sewer rental charge is imposed uses water
from the town’s water supply system for an industrial or commercial purpose so
that the water so used is not discharged into the sewerage system of the town,
the quantity of water so used and not discharged into the town’s sewers shall
be excluded in determining the sewer rental of property; provided, that the
quantity of water so used and not discharged into the town’s sewers is measured
by a device approved by the Director of Public Works and installed and
maintained without cost to the town; and provided further, that the water
supply of property is metered and the owner pays for the water at metered
rates. The sewer rental based upon the consumption of town water to be paid by
the owner of the property shall be computed at the percentage specified in §
50.034(A) and using a quantity of water equal to the total quantity of water
furnished property by the town, less the quantity not discharged into the
town’s sewers; provided, that where, in the opinion of the Director of Public
Works, it is not practical to install a measuring device to determine
continuously the quantity of water not discharged into the town’s sewers, the
Director shall determine periodically, in a way and by a method as he or she
may prescribe, the percentage of metered water discharged in the town sewers,
and the quantity of water used to determine the sewerage rental shall be the
percentage so determined of the quantity measured by the water meter or meters.
Any dispute as to the estimated amount shall be submitted to the Director of
Public Works after notice of the estimate, whose decision on the matter shall
be final for the current billing period.
(Prior Code, § 16-16)
§ 50.036 PROPERTIES NOT AFFECTED.
   No water rate is imposed by the town for any property not connected to the
town water system, nor is any sewer rental charge imposed by the town for any
property not connected to a town sewer.
(Prior Code, § 16-17)
§ 50.037 WATER SUPPLIED BY TOWN; BILLING; PAYMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Customers of the town water supply system shall be billed bi-monthly
for water furnished during the 2-month period ending on the date of the last
meter reading preceding the date of the bill; and bills shall be due and
payable at the office of the Town Treasurer on or before the tenth day next
succeeding the date of the bill.
   (B)   When any bill is not paid within the time as provided therefor in
division (A) of this section, the town shall discontinue water service to the
premises to which the bill relates and it shall then be unlawful for any
person, other than a duly authorized agent or employee of the town, to turn the
water on until the bill has been paid in full and a turn-on fee of $10 has been
paid to the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 16-18) (Am. Ord. passed 9-4-1984)
§ 50.038 SEWER RENTAL CHARGES; BILLING; PAYMENT; PENALTIES.
   All sewer rental charges shall be due and payable at the same time and place
that water rental bills are due and payable. Sewer rental charges shall be
included in the water bills, but stated separately, and shall be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as water bills, and, if not paid within
the time limit for the payment of water rental bills, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, the town may cut off from that property the use of
water, and if water is obtained from sources of supply other than the town
water system, the discharge thereof into the town’s sewerage system shall be
illegal and the owner of that property shall be subject to prosecution for a
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 16-19)
§ 50.039 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
10 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
WATERSHED
§ 50.050 STATEMENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is hereby created in pursuance of authority conferred
in the G.S. and particularly G.S. Article 6 of Ch. 153A, and for the purpose of
promoting the public health, safety, general welfare and the protection of
persons and property in the Town of Wilkesboro and for the protection in the
area of the watershed of the Town of Wilkesboro from the harmful effects of
pollution, contamination, radiation or the threat thereof.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Wilkesboro
Watershed Control Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1979)
§ 50.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Town Board of Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   GENERAL POLLUTION.  Any type use of watershed as will endanger or threaten
to endanger the health, safety, general welfare, persons and property of the
users of water from the Town of Wilkesboro or may be hereafter users of the
water.
   NONIONIZING RADIATION. Radiation in any portion of the electromagnetic
spectrum not defined as ionizing radiation, including but not limited to
sources like laser, maser or microwave devices.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group, agency, political subdivision of
this state, any other state or political subdivision or agency thereof and any
legal successor, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing.
   POLLUTION. Any use of land which shall or may contaminate the watershed,
whether it be ionization radiation, gamma rays and x-rays, alpha and beta
particles, high speed electrons, protons, neutrons and other nuclear particles
or any other contamination which would endanger or be likely to endanger or in
any way contaminate the water system of the Town of Wilkesboro, thereby
endangering the public health, safety, general welfare and protection of
persons and property within the watershed of the Town of Wilkesboro and its
source of water.
   RADIATION MACHINE. Any device designated to produce or which produces
radiation or nuclear particles when the associated control devices of the
machine are operated or any other device machines or use which would pollute or
tend to pollute water systems.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL. Any solid, liquid or gas which emits ionizing
radiation spontaneously.
   WATERSHED. All territory that drains into the Yadkin River west of Moravian
Creek and the line running Northward from Moravian Creek and the line running
Northward from Moravian Creek to the dividing line where the waters flow into
the Yadkin River west of this line and extending westward with the dividing
ridge running Southward constituting all of the flow and drainage into the
Yadkin River to the dividing ridge between the tributaries of the Yadkin, then
Eastward with the dividing ridge of the tributaries of the Yadkin River to a
point east of Cub Creek and its tributaries and back to the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1979)
§ 50.052 RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS AND POLLUTANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, manufacture, produce, process,
store, bury, transport, transfer, receive, acquire, own or possess radioactive
materials or other pollutants in the Town of Wilkesboro or on its watershed,
except persons involved in the use of radiation machines or radioactive
materials for medical diagnosis or treatment.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.053 IN CASE OF DECLARATION IT BE UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Town Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro hereby declares that it would have
passed this chapter and each section, division, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any 1 or more sections, divisions,
sentences, clauses or phrases may be declared unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1979)
§ 50.054 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by
G.S. § 14-4. Each day of violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty to be recovered by the Town of Wilkesboro in the sum
as referenced in the town’s schedule of fees, which is updated annually, for
each violation payable within 10 days after the person has been cited for
validation of this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter may be enforced by each and every remedy enumerated in
G.S. § 153A-123(d), (e), provisions being incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1979)
WATER TANKS; INSTALLATION STANDARDS FOR ANTENNAS AND THE LIKE
§ 50.080 CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All licensee installations require the use of certified electronics
technicians, steeplejacks, electricians or licensed contractors for an
installation work. All installation work shall be in accordance with the Town
of Wilkesboro previously approved installation plan. Town of Wilkesboro, at its
sole discretion, shall have the right to supervise the installation of any and
all equipment. Certificates of insurance will be required by the Town of
Wilkesboro of any installer.
   (B)   All installers will have a certified welder per AWS D1.1 performing
any welding.
   (C)   All installers will have a demonstrated familiarity with AWWA D100
code requirements as it relates to the installation of appurtenances and
attachments.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.081 HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Precautions shall be taken to prevent water contamination. Any
intrusion to the tank interior may be considered contamination. If
contamination occurs disinfect the tank (see ANSI/AWWA C652).
   (B)   Lockout and tagout procedures should be in place and followed.
   (C)   The contractor shall provide fall protection for their personnel
during installation or inspection of any equipment in accordance with OSHA.
   (D)   Cables shall not be attached to any ladder structures, in accordance
with OSHA standards.
   (E)   Manholes and other access ports shall not be obstructed in any way by
cable routing or attachments, in accordance with OSHA standards.
   (F)   Balconies and platforms shall not be obstructed in any way by cable
routing or attachments, in accordance with OSHA standards.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.082 GENERAL WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   Epoxy attachments shall not be used. Epoxy compounds can lose strength
at temperatures exceeding 140°F. Additionally, epoxy compounds can subjected to
extreme stresses from thermal expansion/contraction of the metal structure due
to changes in the ambient temperature and subsequently exhibit shear failure.
   (B)   Stud welding shall not be used. A properly installed stud weld will
scorch the internal coating system in the same manner as ordinary stick
welding. In addition, the plate attachment to the studs is open to water
seepage and corrosion from trapped water and moisture. Proper coating
procedures cannot be used on tank surfaces that have plates or other
attachments bolted to them.
   (C)   Any penetrations larger than 3 inches in diameter that are to be cut
into the support structure require special expertise in design and installation
to minimize the possibility of structural damage to the structure.
Consideration should be given to reducing the tank water level whenever
openings are cut into the support structure. A professionally engineered
solution must be provided.
   (D)   Antenna cables should be arranged and located to allow protective
wrapping during abrasive blasting and recoating. Neatly arranged cables shall
be offset from the tank to allow maintenance contractors to perform this work
without removing the cable runs. Chaining or strapping to tower legs or
handrails is not allowed. Cable runs should be routed under balconies or
walkways to minimize access interference. Vertical coax routing up a leg should
be orientated towards the center of the tank on the inside face of the leg
where possible.
   (E)   The first carrier on the tank shall use hinged cluster brackets with
snap-in clips capable of supporting eighteen 1 and 5/8-inch coax cables, and
shall route the coax cables on the inside of the cluster brackets.
   (F)   Cables and antenna shall be installed with a minimum of 6-inch
offsets. Any deviations must be expressly approved by the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (G)   Coax runs shall have a minimum of 4 feet clearance from tank logos.
   (H)   Penetrations shall be designed in accordance with AWWA § 3.13.
   (I)   Penetrations through walkways and platforms shall be toe board
compliant in accordance with OSHA regulations.
   (J)   All installers shall comply with applicable local, state and federal
requirements. In the absence of any applicable government standards, applicable
BOCA and NEC codes, as well as EIA, TIA and AWWA, standards will apply.
   (K)   All materials and workmanship are to be in compliance with the latest
AWWA codes and regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.083 WELDING AND PAINTING.
   (A)   (1)   All welding shall be in accordance with AWWA D100 § 8, Welding
and § 11, Inspection and Testing. This requires all welders to be certified in
accordance with AWS Dl.1.
      (2)   All welds to the tank surface shall be made with E7018 low hydrogen
rod and shall be smooth and free of burs and undercuts. Unacceptable welds
shall be repaired as 6.1 requires to meet AWWA D100 requirements.
      (3)   Penetrations shall not intersect tank weld seams. Penetrations
should clear existing seams by 6 inches. If this clearance is not possible, a
review by a professional engineer shall be made of adjacent weld seams that may
be affected by local welding.
      (4)   Welding to the tank or access tube opposite the water level is not
permitted. The water level shall be drawn down to a level not less than 2 feet
below the point of welding.
       (5)   Galvanized components shall not be welded directly to the tank
surface. Galvanized surfaces mating to the tank structure must be ground free
of galvanizing prior to welding.
      (6)   Tubular columns on multi-leg supported tanks are hermetically
sealed and must not be breached or punctured under any circumstance since
moisture will accumulate inside the leg and eventually cause serious structural
damage.
   (B)   Welding may cause blistering of the interior paint opposite the weld.
Damaged interior paint surfaces shall be repaired in a manner that is
compatible with the existing paint system. Exterior paint damage shall be
repaired after completion of the antenna installation, and should be compatible
with existing paint system. It is recommended that a 1-year anniversary
inspection be made to evaluate the quality of the touch up and repainting if
required. AWWA D 102 should be consulted for proper paint procedure.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.084 ELECTRICAL.
   (A)   All installation work shall be performed in a neat and workperson-like
manner. Any new installation shall not cause mechanical, electrical or
electronic interference to other RF equipment located on the site.
   (B)   All transmission lines shall be attached to tower coax supports using
snap-in hangers. The use of stainless steel angle adapters (Andrew 31768A or
approved equal) is authorized. Cable ties are not permitted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.085 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All transmission lines shall be tagged at the top and bottom of each
run near the connector with an identification tag containing the licensee’s
name, FCC or IRAC call sign, and the frequency assigned. Brass Tags with copper
wire are preferred. Plastic tags with vinyl labels or indelible ink marking are
acceptable.
   (B)   All installed equipment shall be housed in suitable EIA approved
enclosures or equipment racks. All enclosure doors and covers shall remain
closed and locked at all times except during actual equipment servicing.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.086 INSPECTIONS AND APPROVALS.
   (A)   Town of Wilkesboro shall be provided with as-built plans or tank
mapping for review.
   (B)   Town of Wilkesboro shall be provided with all drawings for review and
approval prior to start of construction.
   (C)   Town of Wilkesboro shall have the right to inspect the structure at
completion of the project.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Supervision of collection; regulations
   
51.03   Collection routes, schedules and placement of containers
   
51.04   Container, storage and collection practices
   
51.05   Physically disabled service
   
51.06   Control of solid waste
   
51.07   Town served nonresidential units
   
51.08   Bulk containers/dumpsters
   
51.09   Recyclables
   
51.10   Ownership of materials
   
51.11   Scavenging; private collection
   
51.12   Unauthorized collection prohibited
   
51.13   Removal from unimproved premises
   
51.14   Illegal dumping
   
51.15   Burning garbage and yard waste
   
51.16   Dumping by nonresidents
   
51.17   Containers required to reduce litter
   
51.18   Dumping of building and demolition materials
   
51.19   Transportation of loose materials and wastes
   
51.20   Special collection; yard waste and bulk items
   
51.21   Solid waste not to be collected by town
   
51.22   Accumulation of solid wastes prohibited
   
51.23   Distribution of handbills
 
   
51.99   Penalties and remedies
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal or other combustible
material.
   BUILDING MATERIAL.  Lumber, brick, stone, carpet, plumbing materials,
plaster, concrete, floor coverings, roofing material, gutters or other
materials or substances accumulated as a result of construction, repairs or
additions to existing structures or accessory structures or demolition of
those.
   BULK CONTAINER (DUMPSTER). A metal container with a minimum size of 400
gallons and a maximum size of 1,600 gallons, watertight, constructed with two
opening side and top doors so that it can be emptied mechanically by specially
equipped trucks.
   BULKY ITEMS. Items such as household furnishings, white goods, mattresses,
box springs, lawn equipment (i.e. mowers, wheelbarrows) and similar household
items.
   BUSINESS BUILDING.  Any structure, whether public or private, that is
adapted for transaction of business, for rendering of professional services,
for amusement, for the display or sale or storage of  goods, wares,
merchandise, article or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming
houses, office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets,
restaurants, abattoirs (slaughterhouses), warehouses, sheds, barns and other
structures on premises used for or adapted to business purposes.
   BUSINESS TRASH.  Any waste accumulation of paper, cardboard, packaging
materials, rags or accumulations of incidental garbage other than household
trash which is associated with the operation of stores, offices and
nonresidential units.
   COLLECTION.  The act of removing solid waste from a point of generation to
an approved disposal site. Collection shall be at the curb for rollout (or
backyard in special circumstances), trash, yard waste and recyclable
collection.
   DESIGNATED COLLECTION AREA(S).  That geographic location to which the town
is responsible for providing solid waste collection services. Collection points
shall be at the curb for the rollout, trash, yard waste and recyclables
collection.
   ESTABLISHMENTS. Single-family units, special residential units, multifamily
units, nonresidential units and town-owned nonresidential units.
   FOUL ODOR.  Offensive odors emanating from, but not limited to, garbage.
   GARBAGE. The byproduct of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter which is
subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction and/or the generation of noxious
or offensive gases or odors or which during and/or after decay may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals. All refuse to
result from the use and maintenance of the property, regardless of the nature
of the action thereon.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. The following is an explanation of hazardous waste as
published in the North Carolina Hazardous Waste Law adopted for the  Federal
Environment Protection Agency (EPA). For the purposes of this chapter, the
definition of hazardous waste has been condensed. The items defined are not
inclusive of all items specified by the EPA regulations. Hazardous waste is
defined as potentially dangerous byproducts of our highly industrialized
society that cannot be handled, treated or disposed of without special
precautions. It includes ignitable, corrosive, reactive and toxic wastes such
as acetone, gasoline and industrial alcohol, alkaline cleaners, acids, cyanide
and chlorine, arsenic, pesticide wastes, drugs, paint, caustics, infected
material, offal, fecal matter (human and animal), explosives and any other
material of similar nature.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Any waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, rags, bottles,
cans or other matter of any kind, which is usually attendant to housekeeping,
excluding recyclables and garbage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste, including solids, semi-solids, sludge and
liquids created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing
enterprises.
   INSPECTOR.  The person or persons designated by the Town Manager to perform
the duties and responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the inspector.
   LITTER. Any discarded man-made materials including, but not limited to,
solid waste materials, industrial materials, household trash, business trash,
building materials, scrap materials and hazardous waste as terms are defined in
this chapter.
   MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any apartment, group of apartments or
condominiums used for dwelling places of 3 or more families.
   NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any retail, manufacturing, wholesale, institutional,
religious, nonprofit organization, governmental or another
   PERSON. Any person, owner, agent, corporation, partnership, association,
firm, receiver, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, fiduciary,
occupant, lessee, tenant or representative or group of individuals or entities
of any kind.
   PHYSICAL DISABILITY. A medical condition verified by a registered physician
that makes an individual either physically unable to bring a rollout container
to the curbside for collection and/or that makes undertaking that act clearly
and seriously threatening to that person's health.
   PORTABLE PACKING UNIT. A metal container not exceeding 4,500 pounds gross
weight with an 800 to 1,600 gallon capacity that contains a packing mechanism
and an internal or external power unit.
   PREMISES. Lots, sidewalks, rights-of-way, grass strips or curbs up to the
edge of the pavement of any public street.
   RECYCLABLES. Material designated as capable of being sorted, processed,
transported and sold to markets for the remanufacture of like or different
products. Items include newspapers and accompanying inserts, glass, food and
beverage containers, plastic soft drink and liquor bottles, aluminum cans, bi-
metal cans, steel or tin cans, yard waste and other items determined to be
recyclable by the Solid Waste Department.
   RECYCLABLES BIN. A 21-gallon plastic container furnished by the town or
town-designated private collector and distributed for use in the residential
recyclables collection program.
   REFUSE. Solid waste accumulations consisting of garbage, household trash,
yard waste and business trash as herein defined.
   REFUSE RECEPTACLE. A metal or plastic container resistant to rust, corrosion
or rapid deterioration.
   REGULAR COLLECTION. All collection services offered recurrently, at least
once per week, which includes the collection of vegetable and food wastes in a
manner safe to public health.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. 
      (1)   Garbage and trash, which may include glass jars, bottles, steel
cans, plastic soda and liquor bottles, newspaper and inserts, plastic milk and
water jugs and other solid waste including yard waste.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE shall not include discarded building
materials, trees, brush and other material resulting from the activities of
building contractors or lawn services, larger quantities of sod, dirt, and
trash from land clearing or other material requiring special handling.
   ROLL-OUT CART. A container having wheels and a hinged lid, issued by the
town or by a firm under contract with the town, for the disposal of refuse and
recycling as defined and prepared in accordance with this section.
   SCRAP METAL. Any item creating a littered condition including, but not
limited to, dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building
material, automotive parts, tires or other similar items which are either in a
wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked dismantled or inoperative
condition.
   SEPARATE COLLECTION. All collection of specifically defined materials not
associated with regular collection practices.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling occupied by 1 family.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and scrap
materials and shall be collected through curbside trash, rollout, recyclables,
yard waste, bulky items or business trash collection activities.
   SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any duplex, triplex, quadruplex or mobile home
park.
   TRASH. The byproduct of animal or vegetable food waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter which is
subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction and/or the generation of noxious
or offensive gases or odors or which during and/or after decay may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals. All refuse to
result from the use and maintenance of the property, regardless of the nature
of the activity thereon except garbage (Sometimes referred to as GARBAGE).
   WASTE. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
industrial, commercial, agricultural and residential activities (excluding
sewage).
   WHITE GOODS. Large electrical goods used domestically typically white in
color. Large white goods, such as refrigerators, microwaves, washers, dryers or
dishwashers will be accepted.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery
pruning's and other similar materials which are generated in the maintenance of
yards and gardens, and which are separated from other solid waste materials and
placed in a designated recycling collection area. YARD WASTE shall not include
trees, tree limbs, brush and other material resulting from commercial tree
trimmers and/or commercial lawn care services. Items that are over 6 feet long
and 3 inches in diameter will not be accepted. Stumps will not be collected.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.02 SUPERVISION OF COLLECTION; REGULATIONS.
    (A)   The Field Operations Supervisor, with the approval of the Public
Works Director, shall supervise the collection, removal, disposition and
processing and sale of all refuse of bulky items, yard waste, and recyclables.
   (B)   The Public Works Director, with the approval of the Town Manager, may
prepare and publish rules for the effective administration and enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with these rules and regulations.
   (C)   The Town Manager and Public Works Director shall have all authority to
vary the level of refuse collection service for experimental purposes and on a
temporary basis at the direction of the Town Council. Service elements that may
be altered include, but are not limited to, the frequency of collection,
container type and allowable volume per customer per pickup.
   (D)   No owner or occupant of a residential premise shall prohibit or
prevent weekly solid waste collection services, including recyclables
collection, at the premises.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION ROUTES, SCHEDULES AND PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
    (A)   The Public Works Director shall establish collection routes and
schedules and may alter these routes and schedules from time to time. A copy of
the current routes and schedules shall be kept on file in Town Hall and in the
office of the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The Town Council may establish and revise from time to time a policy
relating to the number of times per week the town will collect solid wastes
from various classifications of premises and the maximum number of solid waste
receptacles that the town will service on any one premise.
   (C)   Normal refuse collection service will consist of one collection per
week of refuse, prepared in accordance with this chapter and placed in one or
more 96-gallon roll out carts or glass recycling containers
   (D)   96-gallon roll out carts and 21-gallon glass recycling containers, and
no other containers, for refuse and recycling, shall be set out for collection
only upon those days designated for the premises involved in the schedule
provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   Where the curbside collection is available, containers shall be placed
by the street within 10 feet of the curb line or where the rollout is
   (F)   Rollout carts and glass recycling containers for refuse shall be
removed from the street or alley by 7:00 p.m. on the day of collection. The
Town of Wilkesboro reserves the right to charge a fee for noncompliance with
this requirement as noted in the current schedule of fees. Section
51.99 of this chapter, entitled Penalties and Remedies may also be referenced.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.04 CONTAINER, STORAGE AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.
    (A)   Each residential customer will be provided with a 96-gallon roll out
cart by the town. Implementation will be done according to a schedule prepared
by the Public Works Director, recommended by the Town Manager and approved by
the Town Council.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may exempt customers from using the 96-
gallon roll out carts if requiring use causes a hardship related to a
topographic site restriction or another similar type of hardship. Exemptions
will be made on a case by case basis at the discretion of the Public Works
Director and may be changed or amended at any time.
   (C)   Customers using the rollout cart may not fill the cart in a manner
that the cart lid will not close tightly over the cart body or so full that the
mechanical lifters mounted on refuse packers or sanitation workers cannot lift
the cart. If the customer cannot comply with this requirement another rollout
cart will be provided for them. The monthly fees will be assessed at the rate
in the current schedule of fees at the time the cart is provided.
   (D)   Each 96-gallon rollout carts used in the residential garbage
collection program are the property of the town and the town provides general
maintenance for them at no cost to the resident. A replacement fee will be
charged for rollout carts that are damaged, defaced or removed from the
premises by the resident. The fee will be assessed according to the current
schedule of fees.
   (E)   Trash and recycle rollout carts shall be used for the disposal of
residential and approved commercial garbage only.
   (F)   Spilled materials or overflow caused by the property owner or occupant
shall be cleaned up immediately after spillage or overflow occurs by the owner
or occupant.
   (G)   Spilled solid waste materials caused by the town collection crew of
the town's authorized collection agent shall be cleaned up immediately after
spillage occurs by the crew.
   (H)   Rollout carts will be collected from the curbside provided they are
easily accessible to collection personnel without having to unlock or open a
door, unlock a gate or similar obstacle, or encounter a vicious animal. Town
collection personnel shall not provide service if required to ascend or descend
multiple steps to obtain access to rollout containers, or if denied reasonable
access by parked vehicles, equipment or other objects. Additionally, the town
waives liability for any property damage incurred during the collection of
improperly placed rollout carts.
   (I)   Garbage placed in rollout carts shall be wrapped, bagged or enclosed
in paper or plastic material. Any liquid waste, such as grease, shall be sealed
in its own separate container before being placed in the rollout container.
Failure to comply with this rule may result in the customer being charged as
stated in the current schedule of fees for the cleaning and/or replacement cost
of their rollout cart.
   (J)   All potentially dangerous trash items and all waste material of a
hazardous nature, such as broken glass, light bulbs, needles, and sharp pieces
of metal, shall be securely wrapped to prevent injury to the collection crews.
It is illegal to place fluorescent tubes in the landfill, therefore, refuse of
this description will not be picked up the public works.
   (K)   Trash of a hollow or bulky nature shall be flattened out or broken up
prior to depositing it in authorized containers.
   (M)   Request for additional rollout containers at the same property address
shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Approval of additional container(s)
shall be contingent upon an investigation by the town to determine whether an
actual need exists. Owner or occupant will be charged a monthly fee for each
cart as per the current schedule of fees.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.05 PHYSICALLY DISABLED SERVICE.
    (A)   The Public Works Director may exempt customers from putting the roll-
out cart(s) on the street if requiring placement causes a hardship related to
the customer's age, an infirmity, a topographic site restriction, or another
similar type of hardship. Exemptions will be recorded in writing and kept in
the office of the Public Works Director. All exempt customers must comply with
the requirements of §
51.04.
   (B)   In order to qualify for an exemption, every member of the household
shall be physically disabled as verified by a physician. Based on a physician's
note, the solid waste division will grant physically disabled status.
   (C)   For physically disabled persons, rollout containers will be collected
from a location mutually agreed upon by the Public Works Director and resident.
The Public Works Director shall have final authority to determine the most
advantageous and safe location during disputed situations.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to verify the need to continue physically
disabled services to residents that have been approved to receive those
services. The town shall also reserve the right to continue or discontinue
service.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.06 CONTROL OF SOLID WASTE.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying property to
cause or allow solid waste to be placed, deposited or to accumulate on his or
her property except in 96-gallon roll-out carts and glass recycling bins as
authorized by this chapter. All solid waste stored shall be stored so as to
eliminate wind-driven debris and unsightly litter on the property and any
spillage or overflow shall be cleaned up and containerized immediately. Once
properly stored, all solid waste that the town will collect shall be
immediately placed in an appropriate location for removal by the town. All
other waste not subject to town collection shall be immediately removed from
the property by the occupant and/or property owner. Any unauthorized
accumulation of litter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance in accordance
with §
132.12 of the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina Code of Ordinances and is
prohibited.
   (B)   The person in possession of property shall maintain the property,
including sidewalks, grass strips, one half of ally, curbs or right-of-way up
to the edge of the pavement of any public street in a clean and litter free
manner.
   (C)   All commercial establishments shall, particularly with respect to
their loading and unloading areas, store their refuse in bulk containers
(dumpsters) so as to eliminate wind-driven debris and litter in and about the
establishments. Approved methods of containerization include town issued
rollout carts and bulk containers (dumpsters). The establishment shall
immediately clean up spillage and overflow when and as it occurs.
   (D)   Parking lots shall be maintained by the person in possession in a
clean, litter-free manner, with all trash generated therein containerized and
prevented from spreading to adjoining property. It shall be the responsibility
of the person in possession of the parking lot to collect the refuse and trash
deposited on the lot and place this material in containers.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person undertaking any construction,
renovation or demolition activities to fail to provide on-site receptacles for
containerizing all debris and waste material produced by those working on site
which is capable of being windblown or scattered from the site. Examples of
appropriate receptacles shall include but not be limited to dump trucks,
trailers, bulk containers and containers made of fencing material. All waste
shall be containerized and secured so as to prevent being windblown by the end
of each day, and the site shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition. Dirt,
mud, construction materials or other debris deposited on any public or private
property as a result of the construction or demolition shall be immediately
removed by the contractor. Construction sites shall be kept clean and orderly
at all times.
   (F)   Every owner and every occupant of any premises shall maintain that
area of the street right of way between the edge of the traveled road curb line
and the adjacent property line in a reasonably safe condition and shall remove
dangerous plantings, shrubbery, limbs, tall grass and weeds and other noxious
growth from the area of the street right of way.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 TOWN SERVED NONRESIDENTIAL UNITS.
    (A)   Approved service to the town served nonresidential/commercial units
shall be at least once a week. Collection shall be limited to two 96-gallon
containers per tenant. A second container may be leased from the town as noted
in §
51.04 and according to the current schedule of fees.
   (B)   Until the time that collection practices are amended by the Town
Council, when refuse accumulates at stores, hotels, apartments, duplexes,
triplexes, quadruplexes, condominiums, theaters, office buildings, schools,
clubs, mobile home parks, commercial establishments, industrial establishments
or at any other place in quantities of 192 gallons or less, the same will be
collected by the solid waste division if refuse is placed in the town approved
96-gallon roll-out carts and meeting the standards set forth in other sections
of the chapter.
   (C)   Where the refuse at any of the indicated establishments exceeds 192
gallons, exclusive of special collections, the owner shall be required to
contract with a private company providing bulk container/dumpster refuse
service. The Public Works Director or designee will determine the type of
service to be provided. Unless refuse is placed in the 96-gallon container as
outlined in this chapter, the town will not collect it.
   (D)   Designated representatives of the solid waste division shall have the
authority to determine whether any unit is generating more than the maximum
capacity per collection and, if so, those units shall be required to convert
from rollout service to bulk container service with a private contractor. Bulk
containers must be shielded from view in such a way that complies with the
requirements of the Wilkesboro Zoning Ordinance and the Planning Department
must approve the shielding.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.08 BULK CONTAINERS/DUMPSTERS. 
   (A)   (1)   The property owner of any apartments, group of apartments,
condominium, mobile home park, or residential structure, containing 6 or more
units shall provide at least one bulk container/dumpster for the purpose of
refuse collection. The Town of Wilkesboro will not provide curbside service to
these units.
      (2)   Institutional and businesses required to have bulk container/
dumpster if they exceed more than two 96-gallon roll-out containers for refuse.
   (B)   The Public Works Director or designee shall have the authority to
assist in determining the quantity, size, and location of bulk containers and
to determine whether those bulk containers are serviceable. In making this
determination, the Public Works Director and the Business Administrator shall
consider the needs of the occupants of the premises, the welfare of the
occupants and neighbors and the town's need to facilitate collection and
minimize the cost of service.
   (C)   The owner of the premises shall provide at least one or more bulk
containers so that the following criteria relating to capacity are satisfied:
      (1)   Approximately 100 gallons of storage capacity shall be provided for
each dwelling unit or fraction thereof; and
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall provide the smallest number of bulk
containers capable of satisfying the requirements stated in division (C)(1) of
this section.
      (3)   The containers shall at all times be kept clean, neat, painted, in
a good state of repair and easily accessible to collection personnel. No bulk
containers shall be placed in front of a residence, in front of the building
setback line closest to the street or in a public right-of-way. Container lids
shall be kept closed at all times. All doors and lid springs will be in working
condition. Businesses or occupants leasing the containers shall be responsible
for notifying their service contractor of any damaged conditions. Cleaning up
spilled materials shall be the responsibility of the property owner or occupant
and shall occur immediately after any spillage or overflow occurs.
      (4)   All containers shall have an all-weather driveway surface from the
public street to the bulk container; access driveway surface may be paved, but
must, at a minimum, be well graded and graveled.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.09 RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   In compliance with North Carolina G.S. § 130A-309.04, and in
recognition of the Town of Wilkesboro's commitment to extend the life of the
Wilkes County Landfill and set a standard of environmental conscientiousness by
which all Wilkesboro residents may follow, the Town of Wilkesboro does hereby
set for itself a goal of 40% reduction in the present solid waste stream now
being landfilled by initiating a mandatory recycling program. The mandatory
program and policy shall consist of commercial and residential collections
implemented in a manner to promote the most cost-effective method of compliance
with local goals and state mandates.
   (B)   (1)   All residential and commercial establishments are required to
participate in the mandatory recycling program. Residential and commercial
establishments participating in the mandatory recycling program shall endeavor
to recycle all newspapers and all inserts that come with the newspaper,
cardboard boxes, pasteboard boxes, cereal boxes and metal cans and aluminum
pans by collapsing and/or breaking down boxes and placing boxes/cans in a 96-
gallon roll-out cart, labeled RECYCLABLES. No wax boxes or plastic-coated boxes
are to be recycled and participants should not place wax boxes or plastic-
coated boxes in recycling containers.
      (2)   All residential and commercial establishments in the mandatory
recycling program shall also endeavor to recycle all glass containers
regardless of color. The following glass items cannot be recycled: light bulbs,
plate glass, glass cookware, mirrors, ceramics, or any glass that is not a
container. Paper labels do not need to be removed. All bottle caps and lids
must be removed. Glass recyclables must be placed in a separate, 21-gallon,
recyclables bin marked GLASS RECYCLABLES.
      (3)   All residential and commercial establishments in the mandatory
recycling program shall also endeavor to recycle all #1 and #2 plastic
containers. This includes plastic bottles and milk jugs. The following items
are not recyclable: plastic wrap and hard plastics other than types 1 and 2.
Procedure to recycle plastic: rinse out bottles and jugs, remove the lids, and
place in the recycling container. Lids that are left on recyclable containers
present a hazard to our town employees during the compacting process. For the
most up-to-date recyclables, please refer to www.wilkesboronc.org
      (4)   The Town of Wilkesboro will collect recyclable materials from
residential and approved commercial establishments on a schedule to be
determined by the Public Works Director and the Town Manager for the Town of
Wilkesboro.
   (C)   The following regulations shall govern all persons who utilize the
town's recyclables collection program:
      (1)   Recycling bins are to be used for recyclable items only.
      (2)   All recyclables, except yard waste, shall be placed in a town-
authorized receptacle bin. Additional 21-gallon bins can be purchased by
citizens if needed according to the current schedule of fees.
      (3)   Curbside recyclables collection service will be provided on a day
designated by the Public Works Director or designee for curbside collection
service. The recyclables rollout cart and glass container shall be placed at
curbside separate from other items. Any material not placed inside of the
appropriate receptacle shall not be picked up by the town.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to place the recyclables bin at curbside for
collection prior to 7:00 p.m. the evening before the approved collection date
and to fail to remove the container by 7:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
   (D)   The purchase of a 21-gallon glass recycling container is made at the
Town of Wilkesboro at the Town Hall for in an amount as set out in the current
town schedule of fees and for participation in the mandatory recycling program
as authorized by the Town of Wilkesboro as set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 7-16-1991; Am. Ord. passed 9-1-1992; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-
10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 OWNERSHIP OF MATERIALS.
   Recyclable materials and yard waste which are properly placed by an owner or
occupant of a property at curbside for collection are deemed to be abandoned by
those person(s) and become the property of the town or its authorized agent.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.11 SCAVENGING; PRIVATE COLLECTION.
    It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to scavenge, sort, pick
through or remove refuse, trash, yard wastes or recyclables stored or set out
for collection, or for any person other than the town or its contractors to
collect recyclables in the town where those materials have been prepared and
set out for collection by the town in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
    It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the town to collect,
pick up or cause to be collected or picked up any solid waste including
recyclables and yard waste.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 REMOVAL FROM UNIMPROVED PREMISES.
    Refuse shall not be removed from an unimproved property, except when refuse
meets the conditions set forth in this chapter, such as creating a health and
safety hazard, and then not in excess quantities and only when the property
owner can be identified. All applicable fees apply in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.14 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, discard, throw, drop or
deposit, or cause to be placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any
solid waste on:
      (1)   Any public street, sidewalk or alley within the town or on any
property owned or operated by the town or any other public property except in
properly designated receptacles;
      (2)   Any property not owned by a person without the written consent of
the owner, occupant or lessee thereof; or
      (3)   In any stream or body of water.
   (B)   When litter is thrown from a vehicle, the driver will be held
responsible, regardless of who throws the litter. In accordance with G.S. § 14-
399, the police have full enforcement power over this section.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the dumping or placing of fill on
private or public property without the owner's permission of clean sand, dirt,
broken concrete, broken pavement, and natural land debris, uncontaminated by
other materials or other material deemed suitable by the Public Works Director
and that would not create a nuisance or health hazard. The Town of Wilkesboro
shall deem the consent of the Town Manager permission for all town-owned
property.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 BURNING GARBAGE AND YARD WASTE.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set fire to garbage for the
purpose of disposal, and garbage shall be disposed of only as authorized by
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 DUMPING BY NONRESIDENTS.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring construction debris,
business trash, garbage, household refuse, household trash, industrial waste,
litter, refuse, solid waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish
into the Town of Wilkesboro from a point outside the town for the purpose of
materials to become subject to pick up by the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit the use of his
or her receptacles or any other portion of his or her property by any other
person for the disposal of any construction debris, business trash, garbage,
hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid
waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish brought in to the Town
of Wilkesboro from a point outside the town for the purpose of disposing of
materials to become subject to pick up by the town.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 CONTAINERS REQUIRED TO REDUCE LITTER.
    (A)   Whenever the Public Works Director determines that solid wastes are
commonly or routinely deposited by the customers, employees, licensees or
invitees of the premises onto the parking areas or other open spaces of the
premises or adjacent properties or streets, the Public Works Director may
require that the person in possession of the premises provides a refuse
containers on the premises. In locations specified by the Public Works Director
to be necessary to minimize the litter problem to the extent reasonably
possible and practicable under circumstances. This section is specifically
intended to apply, but shall not be limited, to those establishments commonly
known as fast food restaurants, strip shopping centers, and convenience stores.
   (B)   The presumptions established by this section are that to satisfy the
standard set forth in division (A) above. There shall be 1 refuse receptacle
for every 20 parking spaces or fraction thereof, with a minimum of 2
receptacles per parking lot. This is required for businesses establishments.
However, this is only a presumptive standard to guide the discretion of the
Public Works Director, and the Director may find in any case that more or fewer
receptacles are necessary to satisfy the standard set forth in division (A)
above.
   (C)   Whenever premises served by bulk containers (dumpsters) are required
under division (A) above, other refuse receptacles for the use of employees
must be located on the premises for the use of employees, customers, licensees
or invitees. Whenever other refuse receptacles are furnished voluntarily, the
person in possession of the premises shall collect or make arrangements for a
private contractor to collect the solid waste deposited in refuse receptacles
and place the solid waste in bulk containers serviced by the private
contractor.
   (D)   No person on the parking area or other open spaces of any premises may
place, discard, throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be placed, thrown, dropped
or deposited any solid wastes on premises except in properly designated
receptacles. This shall be considered littering and will be enforced by G.S. §
14-399.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 DUMPING OF BUILDING AND DEMOLITION MATERIALS.
    It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate a disposal site for the burial
of material resulting from building, construction, renovation or demolition.
Provided, however, this section shall not prohibit dumping or depositing clean
fill material as set forth in §
51.14.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 TRANSPORTATION OF LOOSE MATERIALS AND WASTES.
    (A)   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid waste on
the public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are secured so as not to
escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so transported
shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of noxious odors
or liquids.
   (B)   No person may transport or cause to be transported on the public
street of the town any loose, solid or liquid materials capable of being easily
blown, dropped, scattered or otherwise deposited on the streets or adjacent
areas unless materials are properly covered, secured and contained to prevent
escape from the transporting vehicle. This division shall not apply to the
transportation of poultry or livestock or silage or other grain used in the
feeding of poultry or livestock as stated in G.S. § 14.399(b).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any refuse collector to haul refuse over the
streets of the town unless he or she uses a watertight vehicle provided with a
tight cover and so operates it as to prevent offensive odors escaping therefrom
and refuse from being dropped, blown or spilled.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 SPECIAL COLLECTION; YARD WASTE AND BULK ITEMS.
   (A)   Yard waste.
      (1)   Yard waste collection shall be provided only to single-family and
special residential units served by the town. Yard waste collection shall not
be provided to commercial cut limbs.
      (2)   There may be occasions when the amount of yard waste in a
designated area exceeds processing capacity. When this occurs, the yard waste
will be picked up at the earliest convenience or next scheduled pickup,
whichever is sooner according to the availability of manpower and equipment.
Yard waste shall be separated from curbside trash and shall not be placed
together to constitute a single, separate collection in order for the town to
carry out its other collection program. Collection forces shall collect an
amount of yard waste that is customarily and reasonably associated with the
residential unit(s) served so long as it is properly prepared or containerized
and in compliance with these regulations.
      (3)   Yard waste, such as grass trimmings, twigs, hedge trimmings, plant
trimmings, hay, straw, pine straw and pine cones, shall be collected at
curbside provided that they are placed in neat piles.
      (4)   Loose leaves shall be piled loosely adjacent to and behind the curb
or in front of a ditch (not in street, gutter or roadside ditch) for collection
by special vacuum equipment. Loose piles of leaves will not be collected unless
they are free of trash, such as broken glass, rocks, twigs, cans or other
debris that might damage collection equipment. During the seasons when the
leaves most commonly fall, the specialized leaf collection equipment will
collect leaf refuse on a residential basis. During the fall collection period,
no appoints for leaf collection can be made. During the fall the town crews
start the collection at one end of town and collect throughout town until the
whole town is collected. At which point, the route begins again. Refer to §
51.20(I) for penalties.
      (5)   All tree trimmings and limbs or portions thereof will be collected
when the trimmings and limbs are cut from the stump or body of the tree and
placed at the edge of the lot adjoining the street or alley. They must be cut
in lengths not to exceed 6 feet and not be over 3 inches in diameter and shall
not exceed the measurements hereinabove specified of 6 feet in length or 3
inches in diameter and shall be placed on the edge of the lot with the larger
ends placed in the same direction and neatly piled substantially perpendicular
to the curb. It will be considered excessive collection if the collection of
limbs shall require more than 1 load with a truck or more than 1 hour with the
chipper, extra loads or extra chipping will be performed at the rate set in the
current schedule of fees, which will be invoiced by the Billing Department Town
Hall according to the current schedule of fees. Town collection forces or its
authorized agent will not collect tree stumps.
      (6)   The Town of Wilkesboro does not allow bagged yard waste of any
kind.
      (7)   No materials, such as trees, shrubbery or underbrush resulting from
land being cleared or building materials occurring from a construction.
      (8)   No commercially cut limbs or debris will be accepted curbside. No
commercially cut limbs shall be placed for collection by the town but materials
shall be disposed of by the contractor, builder or owner. In the event that the
contractor or builder fails to remove material, the removal thereof shall be
the responsibility of the owner of the property.
         (a)   If property is within the town limits, a contractor may haul
their yard waste to the town compost site and disposed of for free.
         (b)   When excess compost/mulch is available, citizens will be allowed
to pick up compost/mulch at the compost site. Citizens must provide their own
vehicle for collection of compost/mulch.
      (9)   The solid waste division may decline to collect any yard waste that
is not prepared or placed for collection in accordance with these regulations
or exceeds the maximum amount. Damage to equipment due to improper preparation
of material will result in a separate fine as determined by the schedule of
fees.
   (B)   Curbside bulk item collection.
      (1)   (a)   Residential and approved businesses that are paying for solid
waste on their monthly utility bill are eligible for bulk item collection by
the Town of Wilkesboro.
         (b)   Residents are allowed one free bulk item pick-up per year.
Additional bulk item pick-ups will be performed for a fee. Fees are assessed on
the current schedule of fees. Business bulk item pick-up will be assessed on a
case-by-case basis as per the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Residents shall notify the Public Works Department of bulk items to
be collected by the Town of Wilkesboro. Per notification, a truck will be
delivered and, at the discretion of the Public Works Director, loaded by the
resident. Each resident must complete and sign a Town of Wilkesboro Truck
Policy Statement. Charges for collection will be invoiced by the Billing
Department of Town Hall.
      (3)   The town will collect and dispose of the following properly
prepared items on a scheduled basis based on request for services from the
town's regular residential customers:
         (a)   Bulky items, such as discarded furniture and appliances not
practical to containerize and appliances (white goods) will be picked up. The
town will collect normal household discarded furniture and appliances,
including sofas, chairs, beds, carpets, box springs and similar items. The cost
for bulk item disposal will be indicated in the current schedule of fees.
         (b)   Items not collected by the town include, but are not limited to
furnaces, central air conditioning units, roofing materials, tires, hazardous
materials, lead acid batteries (such as vehicle or equipment batteries), or
similar items. These items require special handling that local governments are
not equipped to perform.
         (c)   Bulk items from a regular residential customer that became the
property of a landlord will be removed by the town as a part of the bulk
collection procedure detailed above with any fees incurred becoming the
responsibility of the landlord.
      (4)   Special service collection for bulky items and/or scrap materials
shall only be provided to single-family and special residential units. This
service is not available for:
         (a)   Appliance and equipment changes that are related to the
operation of a business or leasing of a property. Those business-related
activities are the responsibility of the rental agent and/or owner of the
property;
         (b)   Items from businesses operated from a residential unit;
         (c)   Items that are the consequence of a fire at a business or
residential structure. The Public Works Director shall have the authority to
provide special services collection when, as a result of a fire, there is only
a single bulky item or what would otherwise be a normal collection amount as
opposed to clearing the premises of burned or scrap material items; or
         (d)   Oxygen tanks and other medical equipment; propane tanks; large
oil tanks used for household purposes; parts of campers, boats, camper shells,
trailers; automotive parts, including but not limited to: motors, doors, tires,
fenders, car or seats from residentially used premises and the like.
      (5)   The Public Works Director shall have the authority to determine
whether bulky items or scrap material are subject to town collection and shall
have the discretion to determine whether a request for service is consistent
with the eligibility standards as described above. Special collection service
requirements are as follows:
         (a)   Bulky item or scrap materials shall not be collected if it is
too large to be placed on the solid waste service's division collection
vehicle.
         (b)   Any appliance accepted for collection must be empty of its
contents.
         (c)   Large furniture items shall be dismantled prior to collection so
that a reasonable person can expect 2 individuals to easily load them onto or
off of the special collection vehicle. The only exception to this policy is for
pianos, which do not have to be dismantled for collection.
         (d)   Gasoline must be removed from all lawn mowers prior to
collection.
         (e)   Tires must be removed from all bicycles prior to collection.
         (f)   All glass in windows, doors, mirrors and other items with large
expanses of glass must have the glass taped with an X mark so that it will not
shatter in the collection process.
         (g)   Any bulky item or scrap material collected shall be of the
weight or size that a person would reasonably expect 2 individuals to easily
pick each item up for disposal.
      (6)   The Public Works Director shall have the authority to require items
to be prepared for ease of collection and to ensure the safety of the employees
performing the collection task. An item not prepared properly may be refused
for collection at the Public Works Director's discretion.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to place trash refuse out for collection along
with a scheduled bulk item pickup.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 SOLID WASTE NOT TO BE COLLECTED BY TOWN.
    (A)   The town will not collect the following types of solid wastes, and no
person may place any of the following in any container or receptacle intended
for collection by the town:
      (1)   All hazardous refuse and industrial waste shall be stored in
suitable leak-proof containers sufficient to ensure that no refuse or waste
leaks or spills onto any public or private property. Customer will be held
responsible for any leaks, spills, or damage caused by improperly sealed
containers. It shall be the responsibility of the person in possession of the
premises where hazardous refuse or industrial waste is generated to see that it
is disposed of properly;
      (2)   The removal of clothing, bedding or other refuse from homes or
other places where highly infectious diseases have occurred shall be performed
under the supervision and direction of the County Health Department;
      (3)   Building materials shall be removed by the owner of the property or
by the contractor. No new certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be
issued until the owner or contractor has removed the material. The town may
pick up small amounts not associated with repairs, alterations, construction,
and demolition;
      (4)   Human and animal tissues or waste from operation, autopsy or
obstetrical procedures or any other material of similar nature;
      (5)   A material of any nature, including ashes, that contains any hot or
live coals or fire;
      (6)   No person may dispose of or discard any hypodermic syringes, needle
or any instrument or device for making hypodermic injections in the waste
stream of the town before first breaking, disassembling, destroying or
otherwise rendering the instrument or device inoperable and incapable of reuse
and without further safeguarding the disposal thereof by placing in either a
milk jug, coffee can with a lid or similar containers. Medical or other
biohazard materials shall be removed and disposed of under the supervision and
direction of the County Health Department.
   (B)   (1)   The following materials will not continue to be collected by
town personnel along with other garbage and refuse routinely collected by the
Town of Wilkesboro through the town's sanitation service:
      (2)   Wax or plastic coated, or otherwise contaminated corrugated sheets
and boxes which will not be accepted by any recycling agency.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.22 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES PROHIBITED.
    (A)   No person may cause, suffer or permit refuse to accumulate or remain
on premises under their control except in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. The remaining divisions of this section are not intended to limit
the generality of the foregoing.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the general contractor to see that
all construction and demolition contractors keep the site in a reasonable clean
and litter-free condition as possible for a construction or demolition site.
All loose debris, paper, building material waste, yard waste, scrap building
materials and other trash produced by those working on the site shall be
containerized or disposed of in any other reasonable manner by the contractor.
Construction materials or other debris deposited on any public or private
property as a result of construction or demolition shall be immediately removed
by the contractor. The burning of refuse is prohibited in the Town of
Wilkesboro.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
§ 51.23 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
    No person, firm, corporation or organization shall deposit in, paste on or
attach to any motor vehicle or public property any handbills, advertisements,
cards, circulars, leaflets, folders, banners, letters or pamphlets or cause
that material to be deposited in, pasted on or attached to any motor vehicle or
property without the consent of the owner of the vehicle or property, with
exception to utility bill distributed from the Town of Wilkesboro. This is in
accordance with G.S. § 14-399(k).
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
    (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50. If a person fails to pay this
civil penalty within 10 days after being cited for a violation, the town may
seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   A second offense at the same location shall warrant a civil penalty of
$75.
   (D)   A third offense at the same location shall warrant a civil penalty of
$100.
   (E)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through the appropriate
equitable action. The Public Works Director or designee shall have authority to
issue notices of violation and/or civil citations to any person if there is
reasonable cause to believe that the person has violated any of the provisions
of this chapter. A code enforcement designee may seek enforcement through §
132.12 of the Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Any notice of violation or citation shall be delivered personally to
the violator or shall be sent by registered or certified mail to the last known
address of the violator.
   (G)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 9-10-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Ratification of existing permits
   
52.03   Tax; levy and period for which tax is due
   
52.04   Report and payment of tax; refunds
   
52.05   Penalties and remedies
   
52.06   Administration; confidentiality of records
   
52.07   Ordinance as cumulative
   
52.08   Service upon electric power companies
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REVENUE ACT. G.S. Subchapter I of Chapter 105.
   SECRETARY OF REVENUE. The SECRETARY OF REVENUE of the State of North
Carolina.
   STATE FRANCHISE TAX. The franchise or privilege tax imposed on an electric
power company engaged in the business of furnishing electricity, electric
lights, current or power as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3 entitled
Franchise Tax.
   STATE FRANCHISE TAX ACT. G.S. Article 3 of Chapter 105, being G.S. Chapter
105, Article 3.
   TAXPAYER(S). Any electric power company liable for the taxes imposed by this
chapter.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town government or the official agency
of the state designated by law and authorized by law to administer the
collection of the tax herein levied.
   TOWN. The Town of Wilkesboro.
   TOWN FRANCHISE TAX. The franchise enacted by this chapter.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the definitions of
words, terms and phrases as set forth and/or applied in G.S. Article 3, Chapter
105 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof. Reference to any
provision or provisions in the General Statutes shall include the same as may
be from time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superceded.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 52.02 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Secretary of
Revenue pursuant to the Revenue Act, being G.S. §§ 105-1 et seq., are for the
purposes this chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
  § 52.03 TAX; LEVY AND PERIOD FOR WHICH TAX IS DUE.
   (A)   A franchise tax is hereby levied and imposed for the period(s)
designated in §
52.03 of this chapter upon the electric power companies engaged in the business
of furnishing electricity, electric lights, current or power within the
corporate limits of the town. The tax shall be 3.09% of the companies’ taxable
gross receipts from the business of furnishing electricity, electric lights,
current or power within the corporate limits of the town. It is intended that
taxable gross receipts hereunder shall be the same as those taxable under the
State Franchise Tax Act, being G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3.
   (B)   When a distribution to the town as required under the State Franchise
Tax Act, being G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3, shall not be made, the Town
Franchise Tax shall be levied for the periods herein described. A period for
which the tax shall be due shall begin on the first day of the first calendar
month following the month during which a distribution under the State Franchise
Tax Act was due, but not made, to the town and shall continue from month to
month until the time as a distribution as required under the State Franchise
Tax Act shall be made. The town shall notify taxpayers within a reasonable time
after a required distribution is or is not made by the Secretary of Revenue.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 52.04 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX; REFUNDS.
   (A)   The tax shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time and in the form
and manner provided for the payment of sales and use taxes pursuant to and in
accordance with G.S. § 105-164.16 as the same applies to a taxpayer who is
consistently liable for more than $100 but less than $10,000 a month. As
applicable to sales and use taxes, a taxpayer must file a return and pay the
taxes due on a monthly basis. The tax shall be due and payable when a return is
required to be filed.
   (B)   Upon the resumption of distributions by the Secretary of Revenue as
required under the State Franchise Tax Act, being G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3,
a refund may be due to a taxpayer as specified in this section. A refund in the
amount indicated herein below shall be due to a taxpayer within 30 days after
presentation to the town by the taxpayer and allocable to the calendar quarter
for which the most recent distribution was made. The amount of a refund shall
equal the portion of the percentage distribution amount designated by the
Secretary of Revenue.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 52.05 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to the
State Franchise Tax Act as contained in G.S. Article 9, Subchapter 1, Chapter
105, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax authorized to be levied and
collected under this chapter, to the extent that the same are not inconsistent
with the provisions hereof. The governing body of the town may exercise any
power the Secretary of Revenue may exercise in collecting the State Franchise
Tax.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 52.06 ADMINISTRATION; CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions herein and to the extent that the same
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, the levy and
collection of taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same
manner as the State Franchise Tax Act as contained in G.S. Article 9,
Subchapter 1, Chapter 105.
   (B)   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files
concerning the administration of the Town Franchise Tax is legislatively
recognized and declared, and to protect the same the provision of G.S. Chapter
105 are adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the tax levied herein as if set forth in full.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 52.07 ORDINANCE AS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 52.08 SERVICE UPON ELECTRIC POWER COMPANIES.
   The town shall serve a copy of this chapter upon registered agent for any
electric power companies affected hereby.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Purpose and policy
   
53.02   Definitions and abbreviations
   
53.03   General requirements
   
53.04   Fees
   
53.05   Wastewater discharge permit application and issuance
   
53.06   Reporting requirements
   
53.07   Compliance and monitoring
   
53.08   Confidential information
   
53.09   Enforcement
   
53.10   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
53.11   Adjudicatory hearings
   
53.12   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
§ 53.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the Town
of Wilkesboro, hereafter referred to as the Town of Wilkesboro, and enables the
town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean
Water Act (33 United States Code § 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403).
   (A)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (B)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works or POTW and
pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the POTW Director. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon
the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other town
personnel.
   (D)   By discharging wastewater into the town wastewater system, industrial
users located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms and
conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251, et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or
            2.   The manager of 1 or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) - (c) of this
definition may designate another authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental mailers for the
company and the written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this chapter must be submitted to POTW Director prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for 5 days at 20° centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization's Pretreatment Program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a 1-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not
limited to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under Sections 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or
disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
POTWs NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit or prevents sewage
sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and
federal statutes, regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section 405 of the
Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)(42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq.), the
Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research
and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria (including those
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of
SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 CFR
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
53.03(A) of this chapter and are developed under the authority of 307(b) of the
Act and 40 CFR, Section 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307(c),
provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (a)2. or 3. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment
               b.    Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for coding which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES). A permit
issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
      PH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any "waste" as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity, and odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The chief administrative officer of the Control Authority
or his/her delegate.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or treatment plant. The reduction
or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
or process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Part 403.6
(d).
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any prohibited discharge standard, categorical
standard or local limit which applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. §1292) which
is owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant.For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or Non-discharge permitted flow limit or 5% or more of the maximum
allowable headworks loading of the POTW treatment plant for any POTW pollutant
of concern; or
         (c)   Is subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
Part 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471; or
         (d)   Is designated as such by the Control Authority on the basis that
the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW's operation, or for violating any Pretreatment Standard or requirement, or
for contributing to violations of the POTW's effluent limitations and
conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for contributing to
violations of the POTW's receiving stream standard, or for limiting the POTW's
sludge disposal options.
         (e)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an Industrial User meeting the criteria in
divisions (a) and (b) above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW's operation or for violating any Pretreatment Standards or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW's effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW's receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW's sludge disposal options, and thus is not a Significant
Industrial User.
         (f)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 CFR Part 403.3(v)(2) and thus
is a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User.
         (g)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
Control Authority may determine that an Industrial User meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(3) and thus
is a Middle Tier Significant Industrial User. Sampling and inspection
requirements may be cut in half as per 40 CFR Parts 403.8 (f)(2)(v)(C) and
403.12 (e)(3).
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or SNC. The status of noncompliance of a
Significant Industrial User when 1 or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any Industrial User which meets the criteria in subparagraph (b)
(35), Parts (C), (D), or (H) shall also be SNC.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a 6-month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1);
         (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a 6-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS. fats, oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the Control Authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the Control Authority's or the POTW's, if different from the
Control Authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR Part 403.8
(f)(l)(vi)(B) and §
53.09(A)(5) of this SUO to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date.
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Control
Authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD or DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits, or Industrial User
Permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.03(A) of this chapter.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting there from.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An upset does net include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.05(B) of this chapter.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This section is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   Shall is mandatory: may is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
      (1)   BOD. Biochemical Oxygen Demand
      (2)   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations
      (3)   COD. Chemical Oxygen Demand
      (4)   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency
      (5)   GPD. Gallons per day
      (6)   l. Liter
      (7)   mg. Milligrams
      (8)   mg/l. Milligrams per liter
      (9)   N.C.G.S. North Carolina General Statutes
      (10)   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
      (11)   O&M. Operation and Maintenance
      (12)   POTW. Publicly-Owned Treatment Works
      (13)   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
      (14)   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification
      (15)   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act
      (16)   TSS. Total Suspended Solids
      (17)   TKN. Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
      (18)   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than ½" in any dimension.
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment.
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD, etc.) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration) either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference with the
POTW.
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104° F (40°C).
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
53.03(L).
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under Section 405 of
the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used.
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses.
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director.
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l unless authorized by the POTW Director.
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit.
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system.
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 CFR Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be specifically
authorized by the POTW Director.
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200.
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy.
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system.
      (23)   At no time, shall 2 successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user's
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts which may
cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW
Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
53.09(A)
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §
53.05 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
   (E)   National categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471 and incorporated herein.
      (2)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
POTW Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
      (3)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
      (4)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (5)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
      (6)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
   (F)   Local limits.
      (1)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
   BOD      300         mg/l
   TSS      300         mg/l
   NH3      25         mg/l
   Arsenic      0.000*      mg/l
   Cadmium   0.04      mg/l
   Chromium   0.4          mg/l(total chromium)
   Copper      0.1          mg/l
   Cyanide      0.000*      mg/l
   Lead      0.1         mg/l
   Mercury      0.000*      mg/l
   Nickel      0.01      mg/l
   Silver      0.000*      mg/l
   Zinc      0.5         mg/l
*no limits, will be monitored only
      (2)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTWs maximum allowable
headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of concern. User-
specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall be included
in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass based limits in
addition to, or in place of concentration based limits.
   (G)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (H)   Right of revision. The town reserves the right to establish
limitations and requirements which are more stringent than those required by
either state or federal regulation if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in §
53.01 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
53.03(A), as is allowed by 40 CFR 403.4.
   (I)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in
any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
   (J)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      (1)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment
as necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
53.05(B) and shall achieve compliance with all National categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
53.03(A) within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the
POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the POTW
Director before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and
operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
      (2)   Additional pretreatment measures.
         (a)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the
POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
         (c)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
         (d)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may
be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
   (K)   Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant
industrial user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug
discharges and accidental discharges as defined in §
53.02. All SIUs must be evaluated within 1 year of being designated an SIU. The
POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the POTW
Director may develop such a plan for any user.
      (2)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, or a slug load. Also see §
53.06(E) and (F).
      (3)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.06(F); and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (L)   Hauled wastewater.
      (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §
53.03 or any other requirements established by the town. The POTW Director may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators
of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
      (4)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.04 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the
implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW
Director and approved by the Town Board. A copy of these charges and fees will
be made available from the POTW Director.
   (B)   User charges. A user charge shall be levied on all users including,
but not limited to, persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that
discharge, cause or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
      (1)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
      (2)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
      (3)   The Manager of the town shall review annually the sewage
contributions of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and
maintenance of the POTW and will make recommendations to the Council or Board
serving the town for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as
necessary.
      (4)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
   (C)   Surcharges. The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume
of flow and the character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater.
   (D)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town; or
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual discharger's option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user's expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (E)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
   (F)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his/her duly
appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (G)   (1)   Pretreatment program administration charges.
      (2)   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include
charges and fees for:
         (a)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
Pretreatment Program;
         (b)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug
load discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
         (d)   Permitting;
         (e)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the Pretreatment Program.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.05 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect
or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the town.
      (1)   When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the
request.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose
and may periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Wastewater permits. All significant industrial users shall obtain a
significant industrial user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to
the POTW. Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to
be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW Director's
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may at the discretion of the POTW Director be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for non-significant industrial users.
      (1)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
      (2)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director's
determination in §
53.05(B)(1) above. The application shall include at a minimum:
         (a)   Name of industrial user;
         (b)   Address (and location if different from address) of industrial
user;
         (c)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
         (d)   Wastewater flow;
         (e)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
         (f)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
         (g)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
         (h)   Locations of discharge points;
         (i)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
         (j)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
         (k)   Number of employees;
         (l)   Operation and production schedules; and
         (m)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g);
      (3)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         (a)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including but not limited to those mentioned in §
53.03, any of the priority pollutants (Section 307(a) of the Act) which the
applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in
40 CFR, Part 136, as amended and as required in §§
53.06(J) and
53.06(K);
         (b)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (d)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow
and appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
         (e)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
         (f)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (g)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
            (i)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed 9 months.
            (ii)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to
the POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than 9 months elapse between such progress reports to the POTW
Director.
         (h)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (i)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (j)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring
report in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H .0908(a), as
outlined in §
53.06(A).
         (k)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to
be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (4)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or
municipality as defined in §
53.02 and contain the following certification statement:
   "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
      (5)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate
the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
         (a)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
         (b)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
      (6)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
         (a)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an
on-site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any
pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative
determination to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
         (b)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (B)(6)(a)
above is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be
made in writing:
            (i)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed
to be limited;
            (ii)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates
and requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
            (iii)   A brief description of any other proposed special
conditions which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in
the application.
         (c)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to in
divisions (B)(6)(a) and (B)(6)(b) above and the general permit conditions of
the town into a significant industrial user permit.
      (7)   Permit supporting documentation. The Control Authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
         (a)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
Significant Industrial Users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
         (b)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
            (i)    Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
            (ii)    Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(2).
      (8)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications
not later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
         (b)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
            (i)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
            (ii)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            (iii)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and
pursuant to §
53.05(B)(10);
            (iv)   Revoke any permit pursuant to section §
53.09(A) of this chapter;
            (v)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
53.09(A);
            (vi)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
      (9)   Permit modification.
         (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
            (i)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other
change in the permit is indicated;
            (ii)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in
excess of 4 months; and
            (iii)    Modification of compliance schedules (construction
schedules) in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to
discharge until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Within 9 months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by §
53.05(B)(4), the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard.
         (c)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
      (10)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit
with such conditions attached as he believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
            (i)   A statement of duration (in no case more than 5 years);
            (ii)   A statement of non-transferability;
            (iii)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards
or local limits or both;
            (iv)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification,
and record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an
identification of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling
frequency, and sample type based on federal, state and local law;
            (v)    Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
53.02;
            (vi)    Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
53.02, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user; and
            (vii)    Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any
changes at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
53.02. Also see §
53.06(E) - (F);
            (viii)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties
for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
         (b)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to the
following:
            (i)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/
or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
            (ii)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average
and/or maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties.
            (iii)    Requirements for the installation of pretreatment
technology or construction of appropriate containment devices, etc., designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works.
            (iv)    Development and implementation of waste minimalization
plans to reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater
system.
            (v)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system.
            (vi)    Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment.
            (vii)    Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules.
            (viii)    Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s).
            (ix)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements.
            (x)    Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports.
            (xi)    Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and
records relating to wastewater discharges as specified in section §
53.06(M) and affording the POTW Director, or his/her representatives, access
thereto.
            (xii)    Requirements for prior notification and approval by the
POTW Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutant or of any
significant change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to
introduction in the system.
            (xiii)    Requirements for the prior notification and approval by
the POTW Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment
process used by the permittee.
            (xiv)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not
relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable
federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which become
effective during the terms of the permit.
            (xv)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director
to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
      (11)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed 5 years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a
year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
      (12)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new
or changed operation.
      (13)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with section §
53.05 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.06 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (2) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (2)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
               (i)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
               (ii)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
POTW Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
53.06(J).
               (iii)    Sampling must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §
53.06(J) and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR 403.12(g)(4).
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's current
authorized representative as defined in §
53.02 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in §
53.06(B).
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.05(B)(4).
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by §
53.06(A)(2)(g):
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed 9 months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than 9 months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard,
deadline. Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the POTW Director a report containing the information described in §
53.06(A)(2)(d) - (f). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.05(B).
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of
requiring the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
      (2)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the POTW Director but in no case less than once every 6 months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §
53.06(J) and (K). All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified
in accordance with §
53.05(B).
      (3)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
53.06(J) and (K), the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the POTW Director
of any planned significant changes to the user's operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days
before the change. The permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving
written approval from the control authority and/or municipality. See §
53.06(F)(4) for other reporting requirements.
      (1)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.05(B).
      (2)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
53.05(B) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under section §
53.05(B) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants; increases or decreases to
production; increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the control authority and/or
municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
53.02, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within 5 days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in §
53.06(F)(1). Employers shall ensure that all employees, who may cause such a
discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   All SlUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
53.02.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users.
      (1)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may
require.
      (2)   All users classified as Non-Significant Categorical Industrial
Users under §
53.02 shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW
Director may require. At a minimum, this shall include the Annual Certification
of continuing to meet the Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User criteria
as required under 40 CFR 403.12(q).
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
      (1)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user
must notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is
not required to resample:
         (a)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user's facility at least
once a month; or
         (b)   If the POTW Director samples between the user's initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
      (2)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in
lieu of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a
violation, the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results
of the repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations,
unless 1 of the following occurs:
         (a)   The POTW Director monitors at the user's facility at least once
a month; or
         (b)   The POTW Director samples the user between their initial
sampling and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
         (c)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and
submit the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. The town prohibits
the discharge of any hazardous wastes without notification to and approval by
the POTW Director.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream. discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the town. Any notification under this paragraph need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under §
53.06(E). The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §
53.06(A), (C) and (D).
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (I)(1)
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms
of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a 1-
time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than
such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulation under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW
Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed by a laboratory certified by the state
to perform the wastewater analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 CFR Part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard or unless otherwise performed in accordance with
procedures approved by EPA or town. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain
sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA and
the town.
   (K)   Grab and composite sample collection.
      (1)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and low measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (2)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs necessary
to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12(g)(5) for
additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90-Day Compliance
Reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of multiple grabs
during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis as allowed under
40 CFR 136.
      (3)   Composite samples. All wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
   (L)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   (M)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least 3 years. This period shall be automatically extended
for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or where
the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
POTW Director.
   (N)   Electronic reporting. The POTW Director may develop procedures for
receipt of electronic reports for any reporting requirements of this chapter.
Such procedures shall comply with 40 CFR Part 3. These procedures shall be
enforceable under §
53.09.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.07 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   (1)   Monitoring facilities. The town requires the user to provide and
operate at the user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
systems. The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's
premises, but the town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public
street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling. The town will inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the town, approval authority
and EPA or their representative ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The town,
approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Denial of the town, approval authority's, or EPA's
access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the town, approval authority, or EPA has been
refused access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and
is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation
of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify
compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the town, approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from
the court having jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.08 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data provided by an industrial user to the POTW
Director pursuant to this chapter identifying the nature and frequency of a
discharge, shall be available to the public without restriction. All other
information which may be so submitted by an industrial user to the POTW
Director in connection with any required reports shall also be available to the
public unless the industrial user or other interested person specifically
identifies the information as confidential upon submission and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the disclosure of
such information or a particular part hereof to the general public would
divulge methods or processes entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   Information provided by an industrial user to the POTW Director that
is determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be made available
upon written request to the Division of Water Quality or any state agency for
uses related to the Pretreatment Program, the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, collection system permit, stormwater permit,
and/or non-discharge permit, and for uses related to judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information and data received by the division or other state agency
under §
53.08(B) above shall be subject to the processes set forth in G.S. § 143-
215.3C.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that
any industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater
permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any
other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
      (2)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to §
53.09(A)(4).
      (3)   Show cause hearing.
         (a)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 10 days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
         (b)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
         (c)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
53.09(B) nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
53.11.
      (4)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or
orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW
Director may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct
those persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
         (b)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth
in the order;
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation;
         (d)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a
specified time period.
      (5)   Emergency suspensions.
         (a)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
         (b)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user's waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individual. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
      (6)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge. The POTW Director
may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to discharge for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (7)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
53.09(A) why the proposed action should not be taken.
   (B)   (1)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and
permits issued hereunder, may assessed a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per day
per violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the 5 years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or
the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the 5 years preceding the violation.
      (3)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program;
         (h)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
         (i)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this
section shall be as provided in §
53.11.
   (C)   Other available remedies. Remedies, in addition to those previously
mentioned in this chapter, and are available to the POTW Director who may use
any single 1 or combination against a noncompliant user. Additional available
remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the applicable
Judicial District may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users
who violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
(Note: Under North Carolina law, it is a crime to negligently violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to
apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B
(f)), to knowingly and willfully violate any term, condition, or requirement of
a pretreatment permit, or knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a
pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-2l5.6B(g)), to
knowingly violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit
issued by local governments, or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment
permit, knowing at the time that a person is placed in imminent danger of death
or serious bodily injury, (G.S. § 143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify information
required under G.S. Article 21, Chapter 143 (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i))).
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the City Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question.
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate chapter of the town governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying said nuisance.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The POTW Director may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan.
However, the POTW Director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more
than 1 enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.10 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable noncompliance, in 15A
NCAC 2H .0903(b)(34), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements,
during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.11 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   Judicial review. An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject
to conditions he/she deems unacceptable, a permittee/user assessed a civil
penalty under §
53.09(B), or 1 issued an administrative order under §
53.09(A) may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a written
request for review by the Superior Count of Wilkes County within 30 days after
receipt of notice by registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but
not thereafter, along with a copy to the town. Within 30 days after receipt of
the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Council or Board serving the
town shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified copy of
the official record of their decision.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 53.12 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of §
53.12(A)(2) below, are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days):
            (i)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (ii)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (iii)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense.
      (1)   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
53.03(A)(1) or the specific prohibitions in §
53.03(B)(2), (3), and (5) - (7) and (9) - (23) if it can prove that it did not
know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
      (2)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (3)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (2) and (3) of this section.
      (2)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least 10 days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (3)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within 5 days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (4)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(2) of
this section.
      (5)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the 3 conditions listed in division (C)(4) of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL RULES
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
         
73.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL RULES
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Pushcarts; bicycle and animal riders/drivers
   
70.03   State license on vehicles
   
70.04   Required obedience to police officers
   
70.05   Authority of police officers
   
70.06   Drivers of publicly owned vehicles
   
70.07   Authorized emergency vehicles excepted
   
70.08   Compliance with chapter required
   
70.09   Display of state license; town license
   
70.10   License year; tax not prorated for less than year
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
70.25   Equipment; use thereof
   
70.26   Conveyance of fish and seafood products
   
70.27   Transportation of saw dust and wood shavings
   
70.28   Washing vehicles on streets prohibited
   
70.29   Vehicle cargo to be loaded so as to prevent noise
   
70.30   Persons on motorcycles and bicycles
   
70.31   Persons on roller skates and the like
   
70.32   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
70.33   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicle prohibited
   
70.34   Entering or mounting vehicle without consent of owner or driver
   
70.35   Loafing in vehicles without permission
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A vehicle of the Fire Department or Police
Department or an ambulance.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between 2 intersections adjacent to
each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street when 75% or more of
frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in
use for business.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of the lateral lines of sidewalks at street intersections. Also,
any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface, whether or not at a street intersection and,
if not at a street intersection, when sign posted so as to face vehicular
traffic from both directions of approach, a warning of the term stop for
pedestrian in crosswalks.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION.  The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of 2 or more highways which join
one another at an angle whether or not 1 highway crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except those operated
on fixed rails.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device, whether
manually, electrically or mechanically operated, by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of the
governing body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic or parking.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any person
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than street
cars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street not comprising a
business district, where 75% or more of the frontage on the street for a
distance of 300 feet or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings
and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT OF WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any STOPPING of a vehicle except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate traffic, see G.S. §§ 20-169, 160A-300
   Motor vehicles and traffic, see G.S. Chapter 20
    State law definitions, see G.S. Chapter 20
§ 70.02 PUSHCARTS; BICYCLE AND ANIMAL RIDERS/DRIVERS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions thereof which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)
§ 70.03 STATE LICENSE ON VEHICLES.
   Each person operating an automobile or motor vehicle upon the streets of the
town shall have a current license plate of some state properly displayed on the
automobile or motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)
§ 70.04 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction given by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)
§ 70.06 DRIVERS OF PUBLICLY OWNED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States government, this state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter except as otherwise may be permitted therein, or by
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 11-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-168
§ 70.07 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
this section, except as follows: A driver when operating a vehicle in any
emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(Prior Code, § 11-8)
§ 70.08 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act prohibited or fail to do
any act required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 DISPLAY OF STATE LICENSE; TOWN LICENSE.
   Each person operating a motor vehicle upon the streets of the town shall
have properly displayed on the vehicle a current license plate of the state in
which the vehicle is registered; and if that vehicle is subject by this chapter
to the annual vehicle license tax of this town, it shall also have properly
displayed thereon a town license plate or sticker of the design as the town may
prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 11-11)
§ 70.10 LICENSE YEAR; TAX NOT PRORATED FOR LESS THAN YEAR.
   The annual license tax imposed by this chapter shall be for each calendar
year beginning with January first and terminating at midnight on the next
succeeding December 31; and the license tax imposed by this subchapter shall
not be prorated for any period less than 1 whole year.
(Prior Code, § 11-12) (Ord. passed 12-30-1980)
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 70.25 EQUIPMENT; USE THEREOF.
   (A)   All vehicles and bicycles using the streets and public places of the
town shall be provided with a lawful horn or warning device which produces a
sound sufficiently loud to serve as an adequate warning of danger, and it shall
be unlawful for any person operating any vehicle or bicycle to make, or cause
to be made, any unnecessary noise with any horn or other warning device, or to
use it except as a warning of danger.
(Prior Code, § 11-81)
   (B)   All vehicles and bicycles operated on the streets of the town, between
1/2 hour after sunset and 1/2 hour before sunrise, shall be provided with at
least 2 lighted lamps, showing white lights visible for a reasonable distance
in the direction towards which the vehicle is going, and 1 red light attached
to the rear of the vehicle, visible for a reasonable distance in the rear
thereof; provided, that 2 wheeled vehicles and bicycles need have but 1 front
lamp and bicycles may have a red reflector at the rear in lieu of a rear lamp.
(Prior Code, § 11-82)
   (C)   No person operating, or causing to be operated, a self-propelled
vehicle shall permit the pipes, muffler, exhaust or other device to emit sounds
of exhaust, and the muffler cut-out on all vehicles shall be in good repair and
shall be closed while on any of the streets or public places of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-83)
   (D)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a street shall have on its periphery any
block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any material
other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of
the tire, except that it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires
having protuberances which will not injure the street and except, also, that it
shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any
vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or other conditions
tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid. It shall be permissible to use
upon any vehicle for increased safety, regular and snow tires with studs which
project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire not more than 1/16
of an inch when compressed; provided, that the Town Manager may, in his or her
discretion, issue special permits authorizing the operation upon a town-
maintained street of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks with
transverse corrugation upon the periphery of movable tracks, or farm tractors
of other farm machinery.
(Prior Code, § 11-84)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Section is merely declaratory of state law, see G.S. § 160A-303
   Size, weight, construction and equipment of vehicles, see G.S. §§ 20-115 et
seq.
§ 70.26 CONVEYANCE OF FISH AND SEAFOOD PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to drive
over any street or to park on any street or in any filling station or parking
lot within the town any vehicle containing wet-packed or mechanically
refrigerated fish or other seafood products unless the vehicle is so
constructed or equipped as to prevent leakage or seepage of water therefrom and
unless the same is free from noxious odors.
(Prior Code, § 11-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.27 TRANSPORTATION OF SAW DUST AND WOOD SHAVINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport any loose sawdust or wood
shavings on any vehicle upon the streets of the town without first securely
covering the loose sawdust or wood shavings with a tarpaulin or other like
covering, so that the sawdust or wood shavings will not blow or fall upon the
streets of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.28 WASHING VEHICLES ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wash or clean any vehicle upon the
streets within the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-87) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 70.29 VEHICLE CARGO TO BE LOADED SO AS TO PREVENT NOISE.
   Persons loading cargo on vehicles shall take all necessary precautions to
prevent noise from arising from the cargo while in motion; and no person shall
drive a vehicle on the streets of the town while its cargo is producing noise
which could have been prevented by proper precautions taken during the course
of loading.
(Prior Code, § 11-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.30 PERSONS ON MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not
carry any person upon the handlebar, frame or tank of that vehicle, nor shall
any person so ride upon that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without
having his or her hands upon the handlebars, nor shall any person ride a
bicycle or motorcycle upon any sidewalk or walkway within the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-89) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.31 PERSONS ON ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in, or by means of, any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, unless it be while
crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection, except upon streets set aside
as play streets.
(Prior Code, § 11-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.32 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle, shall not attach the same, or him or herself, to any public
conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 11-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.33 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while that conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 11-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.34 ENTERING OR MOUNTING VEHICLE WITHOUT CONSENT OF OWNER OR DRIVER.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 11-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.35 LOAFING IN VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to load or sit in or upon the vehicle of
any other person while that vehicle shall be standing at any place within the
town, unless that person has permission from the owner or person in charge
thereof to do so.
(Prior Code, § 11-94)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Procedure upon approach of emergency vehicle
   
71.02   When U-turns prohibited without “No U-turn” signs
   
71.03   Driving through funeral processions
   
71.04   Limitation on backing movements
   
71.05   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.06   Driving upon sidewalks
   
71.07   Moving vehicles from parked positions
   
71.08   Driving within marked lanes
   
71.09   Driving over fire hose
   
71.10   Speed restrictions
§ 71.01 PROCEDURE UPON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal,
the driver of any other vehicle shall immediately drive to a position as near
as possible, to and parallel with the right-hand edge of the roadway, clear of
any intersection, and shall stop and remain stopped until the authorized
emergency vehicle shall have passed, except as he or she may be directed
otherwise by a police officer; but upon a 1-way street, drivers may stop at
either the left-hand or right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 11-29)
§ 71.02 WHEN U TURNS PROHIBITED WITHOUT “NO U-TURN” SIGNS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall make a complete U turn at any intersection
controlled by a traffic light or stop sign.
(Prior Code, § 11-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except authorized
emergency vehicles when responding to calls.
(Prior Code, § 11-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 LIMITATION ON BACKING MOVEMENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into any intersection or over a
crosswalk, and shall not in any event, or at any place, back a vehicle unless
the movement can be made in safety, and he or she shall have given ample
warning to those who may be behind them by hand and horn or other signal.
(Prior Code, § 11-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway, and upon entering the roadway he
or she shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on that
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 11-33)
Statutory reference:
   Operation of vehicles and rules of the road, see G.S. §§ 20-138.1 to 20-171
§ 71.06 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 11-34)
§ 71.07 MOVING VEHICLES FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Cars parked shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb they shall back out on that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
(Prior Code, § 11-35)
§ 71.08 DRIVING WITHIN MARKED LANES.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 11-36)
§ 71.09 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any hose of the Fire Department when laid on
any street or driveway to be used at any fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 11-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway or on any parking lot,
drive, driveway, road, roadway, street or alley upon the grounds and premises
of any public or private hospital, college, university, benevolent institution,
school, orphanage, church or any of the institutions maintained and supported
by the town or by the county or state, or upon the grounds and premises of any
service station, drive-in theater, supermarket, store, restaurant or office
building, or any other business or municipal establishment, providing parking
space for customers, patrons or the public at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 11-38)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by official traffic-control signs where
in place along the streets, it shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle in excess
of the following speeds:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (2)   Thirty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
      (3)   Forty-five miles per hour in places other than those named in
divisions (A)(1) and (2) above for:
         (a)   All vehicles other than passenger cars, regular passenger
vehicles, pickup trucks of less than 1-ton capacity and school busses loaded
with children; and
         (b)   All vehicles of whatever kind which are engaged in towing,
drawing or pushing another vehicle; provided that this division shall not apply
to vehicles engaged in towing, drawing or pushing trailers with a gross weight
of not more than 3,000 pounds.
      (4)   Fifty-five miles per hour in places other than those named in
divisions (B)(1) and (2) for passenger cars, regular passenger carrying
vehicles and pick-up trucks of less than 1-ton capacity.
(Prior Code, § 11-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-141, subsec.(a)
   Speed restrictions and authority of town to impose certain speed limits, see
G.S. §§ 20-141, 20-158, 20-169
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Obedience to official devices; general
   
72.02   General placement, change and removal of devices
   
72.03   Devices in place on effective date of code
   
72.04   Requirement as to signs
   
72.05   Traffic-control signal legend
   
72.06   Flashing signals
   
72.07   Pedestrian-control signals
   
72.08   Stop signs; specific duties imposed
   
72.09   Yield signs; specific duties imposed
   
72.10   Devices governing turning movements; specific duties imposed
   
72.11   One-way street signs; specific duties imposed
   
72.12   Zones of quiet signs; specific duties imposed
   
72.13   Play street signs; specific duties imposed
   
72.14   School zone signs; specific duties imposed
   
72.15   Crosswalks; specific duties imposed
§ 72.01 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL DEVICES; GENERAL.
   The driver of any vehicle and any pedestrian shall obey the instructions of
any applicable official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of state law, this chapter and other ordinances of the town, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted by
this chapter to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-13)
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of traffic-control devices to pedestrians, see G.S. § 20-172
   Erection of yield signs, see G.S. § 20-158.1
   Required obedience to railroad warning signals, see G.S. § 20-142.1
   Types of traffic-control devices and installation thereof, see G.S. § 20-169
   Unauthorized erection of signs and other offenses, see G.S. §§ 136-32, 136-
33
§ 72.02 GENERAL PLACEMENT, CHANGE AND REMOVAL OF DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Traffic-control devices of the town shall be placed, erected,
installed, changed or removed only upon order of the Board of Commissioners
pursuant to action taken by the Board and entered upon its minutes, and that
action shall be by ordinance when so required by law.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Commissioners in any
instance, the orders of the Board shall be executed under the direction of the
Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 11-14)
   (B)   Traffic-control devices of the town within the purview of divisions
(A)(1) and (2) shall include, but shall not be limited to, those indicating
stop and yield intersections; speed restrictions; limited or prohibited turning
movements; 1-way streets; prohibited and restricted parking areas; truck routes
and other restrictions as to vehicle types permitted to be driven upon the
streets; school zones; safety zones; zones of quiet; play streets; bus stops;
taxicab stands; loading zones and business and residence districts.
(Prior Code, § 11-15)
§ 72.03 DEVICES IN PLACE ON EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
   All traffic-control devices heretofore installed by authority of the Board
of Commissioners and which are in place on the effective date of this code
shall continue to be official until the time as they may be removed by
authority of the Board of Commissioners; and until they are so removed it shall
be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any instruction or directive
indicated by any official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 11-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 REQUIREMENT AS TO SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that
signs are required, the section shall be effective without signs being placed
to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-17)
§ 72.05 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by official traffic-control signals
exhibiting the words “go,” “caution” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored
lights successively 1 at a time, the following colors only shall be used, and
words and lights shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Green alone, or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone, or “caution,” when shown following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in safety
a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone, or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as may be indicated by
a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or “go” is shown
alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Green straight-through arrow (alone).
      (1)   Vehicles facing this signal may proceed straight through, but shall
not turn right or left. Vehicles shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians legally within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal.
   (E)   Green turn arrow (alone).
      (1)   Vehicles facing this signal may proceed through the intersection
making only the turn so indicated by the arrow over the respective lane.
Vehicles shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter the roadway unless
they can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Green turn arrow (with steady red).
      (1)   Vehicles facing the signal shall comply with the steady red, except
that vehicles may cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement
indicated by the green turn arrow. Vehicles shall yield the right of way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 11-18)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board of Commissioners to install, change and remove traffic-
control devices, see G.S. §§ 20-141, 20-158, 20-169, 136-32
§ 72.06 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever official flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 11-19)
§ 72.07 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever official pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don't walk” are in place, signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by drivers of
all vehicles.
   (B)   Don’t walk. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or
her crossing on the “walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the “don't walk” signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 11-20)
§ 72.08 STOP SIGNS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Every driver of a vehicle on approaching a street intersection where an
official stop sign has been erected shall come to a full stop, clear of the
lines marking the outside of the pedestrian aisle or intersection, and shall
remain at a full stop until a time as the driver can enter the intersection
without interfering with the progress of vehicles or pedestrians approaching
from the driver’s right or left.
(Prior Code, § 11-21)
§ 72.09 YIELD SIGNS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Every driver of a vehicle on approaching a street intersection where an
official yield or yield right of way sign has been erected shall approach the
intersection with caution and shall yield the right of way to any vehicle
approaching on the intersected street.
(Prior Code, § 11-22)
§ 72.10 DEVICES GOVERNING TURNING MOVEMENTS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Whenever official signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of that sign; and when official markers, buttons or other traffic-
control devices are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing, or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of those traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 11-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 ONE-WAY STREET SIGNS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Whenever official 1-way street signs with arrows indicating the direction in
which traffic shall move are placed upon any street, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle upon the street in any direction other than that
indicated by the arrows, except as may reasonably be necessary to enter or
leave a street or to occupy or leave a parking space thereon and except as may
be necessary in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 11-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 ZONES OF QUIET SIGNS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Whenever official signs are placed, erected or installed indicating a zone
of quiet, no person driving a motor vehicle within any quiet zone shall sound
the horn or other warning device of a vehicle, except in an emergency, nor
shall he or she permit any radio or other sound-emitting device in the vehicle
to be heard at a distance beyond the edge of the roadway; and no person in the
vehicle shall make any unnecessary noise.
(Prior Code, § 11-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 PLAY STREET SIGNS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Whenever official signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon
that street, or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business, or
whose residences are within the closed area; and then any driver shall exercise
the greatest care in driving upon the street or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 SCHOOL ZONE SIGNS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Whenever official signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or parts thereof as school zones, all drivers of motor vehicles using
those streets or parts thereof shall exercise the greatest care in driving
thereon for the protection of children.
(Prior Code, § 11-27)
§ 72.15 CROSSWALKS; SPECIFIC DUTIES IMPOSED.
   Vehicles approaching a crosswalk shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian therein and shall take all precautionary action necessary to avoid
collision with any pedestrian; and at any crosswalk which is posted with a sign
of the term “stop for pedestrian in crosswalk” any vehicle approaching the
crosswalk shall be brought to a stop when a pedestrian is in the crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 11-28)
CHAPTER 73: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Regulations
   
73.01   Stopping of vehicles in streets restricted
   
73.02   Special limitation as to vehicles with trailers
   
73.03   Standing vehicles not to obstruct passage of other vehicles
   
73.04   Double parking
   
73.05   Where parking prohibited; yellow curbs
   
73.06   Parking restricted as sign-posted
   
73.07   Parking within 1 block of scene of fire prohibited
   
73.08   Parallel parking required
   
73.09   Angle parking of vehicles exceeding 17 feet in length
   
73.10   Parking backed-up to curb restricted
   
73.11   Parking left side to curb in business districts
   
73.12   Parking within marked parking spaces required
   
73.13   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.14   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
73.15   Loading zones
   
73.16   Moving of vehicles into prohibited parking spaces
   
73.17   Special provisions for physically handicapped war veterans
   
73.18   Electric vehicle charging limitations
Metered Parking
   
73.30   Definitions
   
73.31   Prior established zones, meters and the like
   
73.32   Establishment of additional zones, time limitations and the like
   
73.33   Placement and specifications of meters
   
73.34   Marking of parking spaces; requirement of vehicles
   
73.35   Parallel parking; front of vehicle to be near meter
   
73.36   Overtime parking unlawful
   
73.37   Tampering and the like with meters prohibited
   
73.38   Slugs and the like not to be deposited in meters
   
73.39   Purpose of parking meter revenue
 
   
73.99   Penalties
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 73.01 STOPPING OF VEHICLES IN STREETS RESTRICTED.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary by the approach
of an authorized emergency vehicle, by the approach of a funeral or other
procession or vehicle which is given the right of way by the stopping of a
school bus or a public conveyance, by the lowering of railway gates, by the
giving of traffic signals, by the passing of some other vehicle or a pedestrian
or by some emergency; and in any case covered by these exceptions vehicles
shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone,
crossing or street intersection, if it can be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 11-40)
Statutory references:
   Authority of town to regulate vehicle parking, see G.S. §§ 20-169, 160A-301
   Parking generally, see G.S. §§ 20-161 to 20-163
   Prima facie rule of evidence for enforcing parking regulations, see G.S. §
20-162. 1
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-141, subset (b)
§ 73.02 SPECIAL LIMITATION AS TO VEHICLES WITH TRAILERS.
   (A)   No vehicle whose overall measurement is more than 22 feet in length
shall park on the public streets of the town for a greater period of time than
1 hour during the day or night.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a vehicle and trailer, whether the
trailer be detached or not, shall determine the overall length of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-41) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 STANDING VEHICLES NOT TO OBSTRUCT PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicles shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 11-42) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 DOUBLE PARKING.
   No person shall double park or stop a vehicle next to and alongside any
vehicle parked at the curb so as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 11-43) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED; YELLOW CURBS.
   (A)   When official signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, or the curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of the signs, no person
shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets so sign-posted or
painted yellow.
(Prior Code, § 11-44)
   (B)   All signs placed, erected or installed, or the curbing which has been
painted yellow in lieu of signs as of September 6, 1994 shall be deemed to be
in accordance with official authorization of the Town Board of Commissioners of
the Town of Wilkesboro whether or not the minutes of the Board Meetings of the
Town Board of Commissioners indicate authorization for the placement, erection
or installation of signs or the planning of curbs in lieu of signs.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1994)
§ 73.06 PARKING RESTRICTED AS SIGN-POSTED.
   When official signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof,
no person shall park a vehicle upon any of the streets so sign-posted at any
time during which parking is prohibited by signs or for a greater length of
time than is permitted by the signs.
(Prior Code, § 11-45)
§ 73.07 PARKING WITHIN 1 BLOCK OF SCENE OF FIRE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle within 1 block of any fire occurring
within the town during the time when the Fire Department shall be engaged
fighting fire or when the fire truck or other apparatus is going to answer a
call to a fire; and any vehicle so parked shall be removed immediately upon any
alarm of fire being given, from any territory within 1 block of the fire, and
shall not be driven and parked within 1 block of the fire while firefighters
are engaged in the work of extinguishing the fire.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle within 1 block of any fire at any time
immediately preceding, during or immediately after the fire is being fought by
the Fire Department or members thereof when told to desist from parking a
vehicle by any police officer or Chief of the Fire Department or other town
firefighter.
(Prior Code, § 11-46)
§ 73.08 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter, and where the street is not
sign-posted or marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park
parallel to the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 11-47)
§ 73.09 ANGLE PARKING OF VEHICLES EXCEEDING 17 FEET IN LENGTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle, the length of which
is in excess of 17 feet, over all on any of the streets of the town where the
plan for parking is marked at an angle to the curb; provided, that this section
shall not apply to passenger buses.
(Prior Code, § 11-48) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 PARKING BACKED-UP TO CURB RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park a vehicle backed up to curb, except when actually
loading or unloading, and then only at places where parking is not prohibited.
If the vehicle be horse-drawn, the horse or horses shall stand parallel to the
curb and face the direction of the traffic.
(Prior Code, § 11-49) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 PARKING LEFT SIDE TO CURB IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in any business
district, except that on 1-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 11-50)
§ 73.12 PARKING WITHIN MARKED PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   On any street which is marked off with official lines indicating the parking
spaces, vehicles shall be parked between the lines.
(Prior Code, § 11-51)
§ 73.13 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing a vehicle, except repairs necessitated
by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when storage is
not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the vehicle; or
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has been
disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from 1
vehicle to another.
(Prior Code, § 11-52)
§ 73.14 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, attended or unattended,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection or in front of a private driveway;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or other official
traffic-control signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   No vehicle shall park on either side of any street approaching a grade
crossing within 50 feet of the closest rail; provided, that where existing
permanent structures are located along the street and closer than 50 feet,
parking may be permitted in front of those structures, unless otherwise
prohibited, if the parking does not interfere with the view in either direction
of an approaching locomotive or train;
   (F)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping or standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (G)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure;
   (H)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building, or a fire hydrant or fire
station;
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
   (J)   Within 25 feet from the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways or streets; or
   (K)   Within a traffic lane or upon the traveled portion of a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 11-53)
§ 73.15 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles may park in designated loading zones for the
purpose of loading or unloading merchandise for a period of time not exceeding
15 minutes.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in a loading zone for the purpose of
taking orders or buying or selling merchandise of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 11-54)
§ 73.16 MOVING OF VEHICLES INTO PROHIBITED PARKING SPACES.
   No person shall move a vehicle whether his or her own or belonging to
another, into any prohibited area, or sufficiently away from the curb to make
the distance unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 11-55)
§ 73.17 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED WAR VETERANS.
   (A)   Time limitations with respect to the parking of vehicles shall not be
applicable to the motor vehicles belonging to former members of the armed
forces of the United States who shall be known as physically incapacitated war
veterans.
   (B)   Those vehicles being authorized for disabled veterans under federal
legislation as specially constructed vehicles for physical handicaps suffered
by war veterans as a result of their services to their country in the time of
war; provided:
      (1)   The privilege shall not extend to motor vehicles unless operated by
handicapped veterans, or which do not have placed on the windshields thereof a
certificate of designation signed by the Chief of Police, or when a veteran
does not have in his or her possession a card issued by the Chief of Police
certifying that the veteran meets the requirements of this section; and
      (2)   The privilege shall not extend to parking in No Parking or Loading
or Unloading zones.
(Prior Code, § 11-56)
Statutory reference:
   Parking near fire hydrant, fire station or private driveway, see G.S. § 20-
162
§ 73.18 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park a non-electric vehicle in any designated electric
vehicle charging location. In addition, an electric vehicle parked in a
designated charging location must be connected to the charge port at all times.
Upon disconnection, the vehicle must be moved.
   (B)   Electrical vehicle charging stations shall be posted with signage
indicating the space is designated for electrical vehicle charging purposes
only.
   (C)   Wilkesboro Town Administration shall have the authority to establish
electric vehicle charging time limits at charging stations.
   (D)   Any person in violation of this section shall be subject to the
penalties outlined in §
73.99.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 5-3-2021)
METERED PARKING
§ 73.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof
or as the agent, employee or permittee of the owner.
   STREET.  
      (1)   Any public way, road, highway, STREET, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the town and
shall mean the entire width of the right of way between abutting property
lines.
      (2)   The term STREET shall include any place in the town which is used
for metered parking.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a highway, except a device which is operated upon stationary
rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 11-60)
§ 73.31 PRIOR ESTABLISHED ZONES, METERS AND THE LIKE.
   All parking meter zones established by authority of the Board of
Commissioners, and all parking meters and instructions thereon, parking spaces
and signs relating to metered parking, which were installed or marked and in
place by authority of the Board of Commissioners as of the effective date of
this code, are hereby confirmed and continued in full force and effect until a
time as they may be altered or discontinued by authority of the Board of
Commissioners pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-61)
Statutory references:
   Authority of town to provide for metered parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
   Authority of town to provide for the removal of vehicles left upon a street
in violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking, see G.S. § 160A-303
§ 73.32 ESTABLISHMENT OF ADDITIONAL ZONES, TIME LIMITATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to establish parking meter
zones from time to time hereafter as traffic conditions require, in streets
that are selected by resolution of the Board of Commissioners for the location
of the zones.
   (B)   Within those parking meter zones the Chief of Police shall cause
parking meters to be installed and shall cause parking meter spaces to be
designated as hereinafter provided, and shall fix the time limitations for
legal parking in those zones, and the hours during the day and night when the
parking meters must be used and when the time limitations shall be effective,
in compliance with the provisions of this section; and shall indicate the time
limitations by designating them on the parking meters or by appropriate signs
posted in proximity to meters within the zones.
(Prior Code, § 11-62)
§ 73.33 PLACEMENT AND SPECIFICATIONS OF METERS.
   Parking meters installed in the parking meter zones established as provided
in §
73.32 shall be placed upon the curb immediately adjacent to the individual
parking places hereinafter described. Each parking meter shall be placed or set
in a manner as to show or display by a signal that the parking space adjacent
to the meter is or is not legally in use. Each parking meter installed shall
indicate by a proper legend the legal parking time established by the town and,
when operated, shall indicate on or by its dial and pointer the duration of the
period of legal parking, and on expiration of the period, shall indicate
illegal or overtime parking.
(Prior Code, § 11-63)
§ 73.34 MARKING OF PARKING SPACES; REQUIREMENT OF VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police shall have lines or markings painted or placed upon the
curb or upon the street adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of
designating the parking space for which the meter is to be used, and each
vehicle parking adjacent to any parking meter shall park within the lines or
markings so established. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter
to park any vehicle across any line or marking or to park a vehicle in a
position that it shall not be entirely within the area so designated by the
lines or markings.
(Prior Code, § 11-64) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.35 PARALLEL PARKING; FRONT OF VEHICLE TO BE NEAR METER.
   When a parking space in any parking meter zone is parallel with the adjacent
curb or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in that parking space shall be parked with
the foremost part of the vehicle nearest to the meter.
(Prior Code, § 11-65)
§ 73.36 OVERTIME PARKING UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person to cause, allow or suffer any vehicle registered in his or her name
or operated by him or her to be parked overtime or beyond the period of legal
parking time established for any parking meter zone as herein described.
(Prior Code, § 11-67) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37 TAMPERING AND THE LIKE WITH METERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section for
any person to deface, injure, tamper with, open or wilfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-68) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.38 SLUGS AND THE LIKE NOT TO BE DEPOSITED IN METERS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section to
deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slug, device or
metallic substance, or any other substitute for the coins in lieu of the coins
of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 11-69) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.39 PURPOSE OF PARKING METER REVENUE.
   The specified coin or coins required to be deposited in parking meters as
provided herein are levied and assessed as fees to provide for the proper
regulation and control of traffic upon the public streets, and also the cost of
supervision and regulating the parking of vehicles in the parking meter zones
created, and to cover the cost of purchasing, acquiring, installing, operating,
maintaining, supervising, regulating and controlling of the parking meters
described herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-72)
§ 73.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any police officer of the town, upon finding any vehicle parked in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, if the owner or operator is
not present, may have the vehicle moved from the street and placed in storage
at the expense of the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-58)
   (B)   Any person parking on property of another without his or her
permission shall be considered a trespasser and the owner of the premises may
have the vehicle towed away and the cost thereof shall be a lien on the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-59)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any officer of the Town of Wilkesboro who has
issued a parking ticket or unlawful parking of a vehicle in a no parking zone
or for illegal parking, who has not paid the ticket in a specified time (30
days) in accordance with the orders of the ordinances to issue a warrant
charging a violation of the parking chapter; and have the person guilty of
violations cited to court. This for failure to abide by the ordinances of the
Town of Wilkesboro.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985)
   (D)   (1)   Any police officer of the town, upon finding any vehicle parked
in violation of this section shall attach thereto, or give to the owner or
operator thereof, a citation stating the nature of the offense, and the owner
or operator of the vehicle shall within 48 hours after receipt of violation
take the citation to Police Headquarters in the Town of Wilkesboro and pay to
the Chief of Police or his or her designated assistant a penalty as referenced
in the town’s schedule of fees for each offense. Upon failure of the owner or
operator of any vehicle parked in violation of this section to take the
citation ticket to the Police Headquarters in the Town of Wilkesboro and pay
the penalty as aforesaid a civil suit shall be instituted by the town against
the owner or operator for the purpose of enforcing and collecting the civil
penalties imposed by this section. The civil penalty as reference in the town’s
schedule of fees shall not be applicable to parking violations involving a
designated parking space for handicapped persons. In accordance with G.S. § 20-
37.6, a parking violation which occurs in a designated parking space for
handicapped persons shall carry a penalty as reference in the town’s schedule
of fees and the amount of the penalty shall be plainly set forth on the sign
designating the parking space for handicapped persons. In accordance with G.S.
§ 20-37.6(f)(4) parking violations which occur in designated parking spaces for
handicapped persons shall be enforced by the town, whether on public or private
property, in the same manner as is used to enforce other parking laws and
ordinances by the Town of Wilkesboro.
      (2)   Any police officer of the town, upon finding any vehicle parked in
violation of G.S. § 20-37.6 shall attach thereto, or give to the owner or
operator thereof a citation stating the nature of the offense, and the owner or
operator of the vehicle shall within 48 hours after receipt of the violation
take the citation to Police Headquarters in the Town of Wilkesboro and pay to
the Chief of Police or his or her designated assistant the penalty as
authorized by this section. Upon failure of the owner or operator of any
vehicle parked in violation of G.S. § 20-37.6 to take the citation ticket to
the Police Headquarters in the Town of Wilkesboro and pay the penalty as
aforesaid a civil suit shall be instituted by the town against the owner or
operator for the purposes of enforcing and collecting the civil penalties
imposed by G.S. § 20-37.6 and by this section.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1994)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Traffic-control devices
   
III.   Trucks restricted
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location               Speed Limit Ord. No.     Date Passed
Any residential     Except on streets as
section             are a part of the      25 mph      –          9-5-1977
                    State Highway System
                    From South Street to
                    the southern corporate
Bridge Street       limit, approximately   35 mph      –          10-7-1974
                    0.45 mile south of
                    West Street
                    Beginning at Airport
Highway 268         Road, running eastward 45 mph      –          12-3-1984
                    to Collegiate Drive
Kelly Hill Drive                          15 mph      Res. 2019-01 1-7-2019
                    From the western
                    corporate limit of
NC 268              Wilkesboro, eastward   45 mph      3            12-3-1984
                    to a point 0.27 mile
                    west of SR 1198
North Collegiate    -                      20 mph      -            8-6-12
Drive
Oak Hill Drive      –                    15 mph      –          7-6-1998
South Street        From West Street to    20 mph      2012-3       12-3-2012
                    Woodland Boulevard
South Spruce Street                       20 mph      Res. 2019-05 2-4-2019
                    From a point 0.25 mile
                    south of SR 1727,
US 421 Bypass-NC 16 northward to a point   45 mph      4            1-4-1988
                    0.35 mile north of SR
                    1322
                    From the intersection
                    of Woodland Boulevard
West North Street   and West North Street  15 mph      2025-02      4-7-2025
                    to the intersection of
                    North West Street and
                    West North Street
 
SCHEDULE II. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
Device Street Side(s) Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Device      Street         Side(s)    Intersection     Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     East side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Laurel Road
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     East side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Holly Circle
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     East side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Dogwood Drive
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     West side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Westwood Lane
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     West side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Laurel Road
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     West side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Holly Circle
Stop sign   Cedar Lane     West side  Cedar Lane and   –      11-1-1993
                                      Dogwood Drive
                                      East side of
Stop sign   College Street North side Pine Street and  –      2-6-1995
                                      College Street
                                      East side of
Stop sign   College Street North side Spruce Street    –      2-6-1995
                                      and College
                                      Street
                                      West side of
Stop sign   College Street South side Pine Street and  –      2-6-1995
                                      College Street
                                      West side of
Stop sign   College Street South side Spruce Street    –      2-6-1995
                                      and College
                                      Street
                                      Intersection
Stop sign   College Street East side  with Spring      2012-2   8-6-2012
                                      Street
                                      Entering the
                                      intersection of
Stop sign   private drive  West side  College Street   2012-2   8-6-2012
                                      and Spring
                                      Street
Stop sign   Westwood Lane  East side  Westwood Lane    –      11-1-1993
                                      and Cedar Lane
                                      North Brook
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Street and       –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      East side of
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Cherry Street    –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 and Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      East side of
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Pine Street and  –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      East Cowles
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Street and       –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      West side of
            Woodland                  North Brook
Stop sign   Boulevard      –        Street and       –      9-3-1991
                                      Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      West side of
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Cherry Street    –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 and Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      West side of
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Pine Street and  –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      South side of
Stop sign   Woodland       –        Cowles Street    –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 and Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      private drive on
                                      North side of
Stop sign   Woodland       North side Woodland         –      9-3-1991
            Boulevard                 Boulevard and
                                      Woodland
                                      Boulevard
                                      Johnson Street
Stop sign   –            –        and Woodland     –      8-7-1995
                                      Boulevard
                                      Along the right-
Speed limit –            –        of-way of South  2012-3   12-3-2012
sign                                  Street and
                                      Henderson Drive
 
SCHEDULE III. TRUCKS RESTRICTED
Street Beginning Intersection To the intersection of Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Beginning           To the intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
                   Intersection        of
                   Westwood Lane and   Dogwood Drive and
Dogwood Drive      Old Highway 16 and  School Street       –      8-13-1982
                   18
                   Westwood Lane and   Holly Circle and
Holly Circle       Old Highway 16 and  School Street       –      8-13-1982
                   18
                   Westwood Lane and   Laurel Road and
Laurel Road        Old Highway 16 and  School Street       –      8-13-1982
                   18
West Main Street   West Main and North West Main and       –      8-13-1982
                   Cherry Street       Woodland Boulevard
                   Westwood Lane and   Westwood Lane and
Westwood Lane      Old Highway 16 and  School Street       –      8-13-1982
                   18
                   Woodland Boulevard
Woodland Boulevard and West Main       –                 –      8-13-1982
                   Street
Woodland Boulevard Woodland Boulevard  Woodland Boulevard  –      8-13-1982
                   and Link Street     and Curtis Road
 
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted Parking
I. RESTRICTED PARKING
Street Side Intersection Restriction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Side  Intersection                                                          Restriction    Ord.  Date
                                                                                                        No.   Passed
Corner of                                                                                Parked no more
West Main    –   Eastward to the entrance of the United States Post Office on the      than 15        –   11-6-
and Woodland       south side of the street                                              minutes              1978
Boulevard
                                                                                         No parking
Wilkesboro   East  North of the intersection of Jefferson Street to the Yadkin River     unless loading –   12-1-
Boulevard    side  Bridge                                                                or unloading         1980
                                                                                         passengers
Wilkesboro                                                                               No parking or
Avenue or    North From intersection of North Collegiate Drive extending westward 1,100  leaving        –   2-2-
Highway 268  side  feet                                                                  unattended           1976
West
Intersection
of South
Collegiate                                                                               No parking or        2-2-
Drive and    –   Along the south side of the street extending 1,300 feet               leaving        –   1976
West Main                                                                                unattended
Street or
Highway 268
             North Beginning at intersection with West Street running westward to        No parking or        6-4-
South Street side  Woodland Boulevard                                                    leaving        –   1979
                                                                                         unattended
Highland                                                                                 No parking or        11-6-
Street       –   From Cherry Street westward to Factory Street                         leaving        –   1978
                                                                                         unattended
             West  From intersection with N.C. 18-268 extending 200 feet to intersection No parking or        10-7-
SR 2360      side  with SR 2510                                                          leaving        –   1974
                                                                                         unattended
             North                                                                       No parking or        10-7-
SR 2510      side  Intersection with SR 2360 to intersection with N.C. 18-268            leaving        –   1974
                                                                                         unattended
1834 Winkler                                                                             No parking or        5-1-
Street       –   Wal-Mart in Wilkesboro, North Carolina 28697                          leaving        –   1989
                                                                                         unattended
                                                                                         Unlawful to
                                                                                         stop, leave
                                                                                         standing or
1605 Curtis        Wilkes Mall; all areas within the city limits of the Town of          park a motor
Bridge Road  –   Wilkesboro                                                            vehicle when   –   –
                                                                                         all
                                                                                         establishments
                                                                                         at the mall
                                                                                         are closed
                                                                                         No stopping or
                                                                                         parking
–          –   Parking lot at east end of Cub Creek Tennis Courts in Cub Creek Park  between 11:00  –   –
                                                                                         p.m. and 5:00
                                                                                         a.m.
South Bridge                                                                             No stopping or
Street in                                                                                parking
Cub Creek    –   Parking lots, including 1 on the west side and 1 on the east side     between 11:00  –   –
Park                                                                                     p.m. and 5:00
                                                                                         a.m.
                                                                                         No stopping or
Old Highway                                                                              parking              10-3-
# 16         –   Westwood Park parking lots at Westwood Park                           between 11:00  –   1988
                                                                                         p.m. and 5:00
                                                                                         a.m.
                                                                                         No stopping or
                   West and East parking lots in the Winkler Fields section of Cub Creek parking              10-3-
–          –   Park                                                                  between 11:00  –   1988
                                                                                         p.m. and 5:00
                                                                                         a.m.
Highway 421  –   Winkler’s Mill Shopping Center, Winkler’s Mill Market Place, Taco No parking     –   10-3-
                   Bell                                                                                       1988
Highway 421  –   Winkler’s Mill Shopping Center, Winkler’s Mill Market Place       No parking     –   10-3-
                                                                                                              1988
Highway 421  –   Winkler’s Mill Shopping Center, Drug World                          No parking     –   10-3-
                                                                                                              1988
Highway 421  –   Winkler’s Mill Shopping Center, Fast Track                          No parking     –   10-3-
                                                                                                              1988
Highway 421  –   Winkler’s Mill Shopping Center, Addison Motel                       No parking     –   10-3-
                                                                                                              1988
Highway 421  –   All business establishments at Mall Square                            No parking     –   2-6-
                                                                                                              1989
North Bridge West                                                                        Parking              12-7-
Street       side  Directly in front of the Old Wilkes Jail Museum of Old Wilkes, Inc.   limited to 1   –   1998
                                                                                         hour
             East  Intersection of Broad Street and Main Street, the first 5 parking     Parking              4-4-
Broad Street side  spaces in front of the old Smithey building                           limited to 30  –   1995
                                                                                         minutes
Broad Street East  From north to south, the sixth parking space                          Handicapped    –   4-4-
             side                                                                        parking only         1995
South Street South Beginning on the east corner of the Board of Education property       No parking     –   9-6-
             side  extending to South West Street                                                             1988
                                                                                         No parking or        4-6-
North Street –   From the intersection of West Street to Woodland Boulevard            leaving        –   1981
                                                                                         unattended
                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                         limited to 1
             North                                                                       hour between         8-7-
Main Street  side  Beginning at 106 East Main Street to intersection with West Street    8:00 a.m. and  –   1989
                                                                                         5:00 p.m.
                                                                                         Monday through
                                                                                         Friday
                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                         limited to 1
             South                                                                       hour between         8-7-
Main Street  side  From intersection with Woodland Boulevard to 111 East Main Street     8:00 a.m. and  –   1989
                                                                                         5:00 p.m.
                                                                                         Monday through
                                                                                         Friday
                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                         limited to 1
             West  Beginning on the north side of North Street extending to Cowles       hour between         5-1-
West Street  side  Street                                                                8:00 a.m. and  –   1989
                                                                                         5:00 p.m.
                                                                                         Monday through
                                                                                         Friday
                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                         limited to 1
             East  Beginning at the north side of Main Street extending along the east   hour between         5-1-
West Street  side  side of West Street adjacent to the Town Hall                         8:00 a.m. and  –   1989
                                                                                         5:00 p.m.
                                                                                         Monday through
                                                                                         Friday
                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                         limited to 1
                                                                                         hour between
             West  Beginning on the north side of Main Street extending along the west   8:00 a.m. and        5-1-
West Street  side  side of West Street to the south side of North Street                 5:00 p.m.      –   1989
                                                                                         Monday through
                                                                                         Friday (police
                                                                                         officers
                                                                                         exempted)
Factory      West  Beginning at entrance to Holly Farms Weigh Station extending 235 feet No parking     –   3-3-
Street       side  south                                                                                      1980
                                                                                         No parking or        4-6-
North Street –   Intersection with West Street to Woodland Boulevard                   leaving        –   1981
                                                                                         unattended
                   Intersection of Westwood Lane for 782 feet going east on Fletcher
Fletcher     Both  Street.                                                               No parking     –   4-4-
Street       sides Prohibited on both sides of 782 feet on Fletcher Street from Westwood                      2006
                   Lane going east
College      West  From Main Street south 175 feet                                       No parking     2009- 1-12-
Street       side                                                                                       02    2009
College      East  From Main Street to South Street                                      No parking     2009- 1-12-
Street       side                                                                                       02    2009
Lenderman    Both  A distance of 350 feet from the intersection of Lenderman Street and  No parking     2010- 3-1-
Street       sides Main Street                                                                          1     2010
Main Street  –   Woodland Boulevard to East Street                                     Two-hour       2014- 6-2-
                                                                                         parking        05    2014
Harding Hill                                                                                                  11-2-
Drive and    –   From Bridge Street to the eastern terminus of the street              No parking     2020- 2020
Cowles                                                                                                  09    12-7-
Street                                                                                                        2020
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
         
91.   FIRE DEPARTMENT, FIRE PREVENTION AND FIREWORKS
         
92.   DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
         
93.   ANIMALS
         
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
95.   FAIR HOUSING
         
96.   TREES
         
97.   CEMETERIES
         
98.   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General
   
90.01   Superintendent of Streets
   
90.02   General maintenance and repair
   
90.03   Width, grade and the like for streets and sidewalks
   
90.04   Use while under construction or repair
   
90.05   Removal, disturbance, nuisance and obstruction
   
90.06   Riding, skating and the like on sidewalks
   
90.07   Site specific prohibition of wheeled activities
   
90.08   Outdoor seating areas on public sidewalks or spaces
Private Driveways
   
90.20   Permit required for construction; application
   
90.21   Control of establishment; standards
   
90.22   Requirements for construction; costs
Excavations
   
90.35   Permit required
   
90.36   Bond or cash deposit
   
90.37   Restoration of surfaces
   
90.38   Safety precautions
   
90.39   Work to be prosecuted diligently
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation and use of streets, see G.S. §
160A-296
   Local improvements, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 to 160A-236
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-297 to 160A-307
GENERAL
§ 90.01 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
   As used in this chapter, the term SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS shall mean the
person designated by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)
§ 90.02 GENERAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   The public streets, sidewalks and other public places within the town which
are not maintained by the state shall be kept up and repaired at the discretion
and under the supervision of the Mayor and the Board of Commissioners by
taxation and under the regulations as the Board may, from time to time,
provide.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
§ 90.03 WIDTH, GRADE AND THE LIKE FOR STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The width, grade and specifications of streets and sidewalks shall be
as provided by the Board of Commissioners upon recommendation of the
Superintendent of Streets.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in any instance, the following
specifications shall be complied with:
      (1)   Sidewalks on each side of all streets that are 66 feet wide and
wider shall be 12 feet wide from property line to curbstone; the sidewalks on
each side of all streets 60 feet wide and less shall be 10 feet wide from
property line to curbstone; and
      (2)   The top of all curbstones shall be on the grade line of the street;
that all sidewalks shall have a fall of 1/2 an inch to the foot, from property
line to curbstone; that all streets shall be the same height in the center as
the top of the curbstone, and shall slope gently from the center of the street,
each way to a point 6 inches below the top of the curbstone on either side of
the street; and that all streets that are hereafter ordered graded or improved
shall be graded to conform to the above regulations.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
§ 90.04 USE WHILE UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk on, ride or lead a horse or any
other animal, or drive a wagon or any other vehicle, over, across or along any
sidewalk or street while the street or sidewalk is under construction or is
being repaired and barricades or signs have been posted to give notice of the
prohibition; it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to tamper with or
molest any construction or repair work.
(Prior Code, § 15-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 REMOVAL, DISTURBANCE, NUISANCE AND OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall, without proper authority, disturb or remove any sand,
dirt or other component of any street, sidewalk or public place within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any building,
fence or other structure so as to encroach upon or obstruct any street,
sidewalk or public place within the town; any building, fence or other
structure erected or maintained in violation of this section shall constitute a
nuisance which shall be subject to abatement by the town at the expense of the
violator.
(Prior Code, § 15-6)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place anything on any public
street, sidewalk or public place, or in any gutter, which will impede travel or
traffic or annoy pedestrians. This prohibition shall be applicable generally
and is not limited to the use of sidewalks by merchants for the display of
merchandise or storage of materials, nor to the erection in streets and upon
sidewalks of booths or stands, nor to the use of streets and sidewalks by
contractors for temporary storage of lumber and the like during the course of
any construction project.
(Prior Code, § 15-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 RIDING, SKATING AND THE LIKE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride or drive any horse or beast of burden, or any
bicycle or motor vehicle, or propel any wheelbarrow or hand cart, nor shall any
person roller skate, roller blade or skateboard upon any sidewalk within the
town.
   (B)   The parents and guardians of children under the age of 15 years shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor for knowingly permitting their children and wards to
violate this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-8) (Am. Ord. passed 2-6-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 SITE SPECIFIC PROHIBITION OF WHEELED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize, ride or move about
upon any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, scooters, or any similar
device upon any public property where the property has been posted as
prohibiting such activities.
   (B)   The following public properties are hereby designated as no
skateboarding, roller skating, roller blading or similar activity areas:
      (1)   Carolina West Wireless Community Commons (Parcel ID: 2206356 &
2206357);
      (2)   Wilkes Heritage Museum (Parcel ID: 2203606); and
      (3)   Tyson Greenway Trailhead (Parcel ID: 2203613 & 2203614), Robert
Cleveland House (Parcel ID: 2205766), & Old Wilkes Jail (Parcel ID: 2205766).
   (C)   Appropriate signs shall be posted in these areas. Skateboarding,
roller skating, roller blading and similar activities are also prohibited at
all parking areas and sidewalks owned by the town that service any of the
public properties identified in this section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to the use of bicycles, unicycles, manual
or power wheelchairs, manually powered mobility aids or devices, or other types
of power-driven mobility devices, by persons with disabilities.
   (E)   It is hereby declared a public nuisance to ride on or by means of a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades or similar wheeled toy vehicle or
device in violation of this section. Any person in violation of this section
shall be subject to the penalties outlined in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 90.08 OUTDOOR SEATING AREAS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS OR SPACES.
   (A)   Definitions. The following terms shall apply to this section as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
      OPERATOR. Any person who owns, operates, or manages a business that uses
or applies to use an outdoor seating area.
      OUTDOOR SEATING AREA. A permitted seating area on a public sidewalk or
public space that is used for seating purposes by a permit holder.
      PERMIT HOLDER. Any person who holds a current permit for an outdoor
seating area.
      PERMITTED BUSINESS. The business that regularly and customarily sells
food or drink and is allowed to use an outdoor seating area as authorized under
this section.
   (B)   Sidewalk use limited; outdoor seating area permit.
      (1)   No business may use a public sidewalk or public space to seat its
patrons without first obtaining a permit for an outdoor seating area issued by
the town. No person shall place tables, chairs, or other seating on a public
sidewalk or public space in conjunction with a business without first obtaining
a permit for an outdoor seating area that is issued by the town.
      (2)   A business that regularly and customarily sells food or drink may
obtain a permit from the town to operate an outdoor seating area on the terms
and conditions set out in this section. The permit shall specify the area to be
used for outdoor seating, the furniture to be used within the outdoor seating
area, and the proposed arrangement of the furniture.
      (3)   An outdoor seating area permit authorizes a limited use of the
public sidewalk or public space so long as that private use does not interfere
with the public interest or public use of the sidewalk.
      (4)   The town may temporarily suspend a permit holder's use of an
outdoor seating area for any reason and for any length of time. During periods
of temporary suspension, the permit holder must remove its furnishings from the
outdoor seating area and shall not use the area. Outdoor seating areas may be
prohibited during special events, parades or pickets, or for any other reason
deemed appropriate by the town. The town will endeavor to give permit holders
reasonable advance notice before issuing a temporary suspension, including a
suspension related to a special event, parade, or picket.
      (5)   The town will endeavor to give permitted businesses a minimum of 24
hours advanced notice, using information as provided on the permit application
or renewal, of any pressure washing of the sidewalk or public space to allow
for the relocation of outdoor furniture.
   (C)   Sidewalk areas eligible for outdoor seating. An outdoor seating area
shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The building in which the permitted business operates must share a
common boundary line with a public sidewalk or public space.
      (2)   The outdoor seating area shall not extend beyond the boundaries
fronting the permitted business.
      (3)   The operation of the outdoor seating area must be related to the
sale of food or drink from the permitted business.
      (4)   The outdoor seating area shall allow a minimum 5-foot-wide
unobstructed pedestrian corridor at all times. Wider pedestrian corridors or
increased clearances may be required where warranted by pedestrian traffic or
other circumstances or to comply with the North Carolina Building Code,
Americans with Disabilities Act, or other laws. Furniture in an outdoor seating
area may be located next to the curb (with 2 feet clearance) and/or adjacent to
the building, so long as clearances are maintained.
      (5)   Where curbside abuts on-street parking, curbside tables shall be
placed parallel to the street. A minimum 2 foot setback should be maintained
from the curb edge.
      (6)   A minimum clearance of 5 feet must be maintained between the
outdoor seating area and edge of driveways, alleys, and handicapped ramps.
      (7)   Outdoor seating area at corners must not extend to within sight
triangles at street intersections or driveway entrances.
      (8)   Clear unobstructed height of 7 feet must be maintained between the
sidewalk surface and overhead objects including umbrellas.
      (9)   The outdoor seating area must not block access to public amenities
like street furniture, trash receptacles, and way finding, or directional
signs.
      (10)   Furniture must be made of durable material. No plastic, or
unfinished or pressure treated wood furniture is permitted.
      (11)   Planters or pots may be used to define the outdoor dining space
but are not required.
      (12)   Tabletop signage is limited to menus and must not exceed 4 square
feet in area.
      (13)   Lighting must not cause glare to pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
      (14)   Lighting must not be affixed to town landscaping for site
furniture without a permit from the town.
   (D)   Application; permit requirements.
      (1)   A person owning, operating, or managing a business that regularly
and customarily serves food or drinks may apply for an outdoor seating area
permit. At a minimum, the application shall require:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the business desiring
to operate an outdoor seating area;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of each of the operators
of the business;
         (c)   The hours of operation of the business and the proposed hours of
operation of the outdoor seating area;
         (d)   A scaled drawing or site plan of architectural design standard
quality showing of the proposed outdoor seating area boundary and surrounding
streetscape details covering seven feet on either side of the frontage of the
associated business, including but not limited to property lines, sidewalks,
curb lines, lighting, trees (including tree size), tree grates, planters,
street signs, bicycle parking, benches, bus stops, and fire hydrants. The
drawing shall show the section of any public right of way to be used for the
outdoor seating area and the section to be kept clear for pedestrian use, and
depict the proposed materials and placement of tables, chairs, barriers, and
other furnishings on the public right of way; and,
         (e)   The furniture to be used in the outdoor sealing area and its
proposed arrangement.
      (2)   An applicant shall also provide:
         (a)   An application fee as provided in the town fee schedule to cover
the cost of processing and investigating the application and issuing the
permit.
         (b)   Evidence of a valid insurance policy, through an insurance
carrier authorized or eligible to do business in the State of North Carolina
for any damage to the public right of way, and for any damages for which the
town might incur liability because of property damage or personal injury
arising out of the use of the public right of way for seating purposes. The
minimum liability limit of the policy shall be $1,000,000. The Town of
Wilkesboro shall be listed as an “additional insured as its interests may
appear” on all certificates of insurance;
         (c)   An indemnity agreement, approved by the Town Attorney, whereby
the permit holder and the permitted business agree to indemnify and hold
harmless the town and its officers, agents and employees from any claim arising
or resulting from the operation of the outdoor seating area;
         (d)   A copy of all permits and licenses issued by the state, county
or town that are necessary for the operation of the business, including health
permits, ABC permits and business licenses. If no permit has been issued, the
applicant shall provide a copy of the application submitted.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued until the applicant has submitted a
completed application and all items required by this section.
   (E)   Permit renewals.
      (1)   A permit issued under this section shall be valid from the date of
issuance and shall expire on June 30. Permits must be renewed annually by the
applicant; applications must be submitted on or before May 31.
      (2)   (a)   The permit renewal process shall consist of re-submission of
the following:
            1.   Certificate of insurance;
            2.   Indemnity agreement;
            3.   A copy of all permits and licenses issued by the state, county
or city that are necessary for the operation of the business, including health
permits, ABC permits and business licenses. If no permit has been issued, the
applicant shall provide a copy of the application submitted; and
            4.   Permit fee.
         (b)   No scaled drawing shall be required for a permit renewal unless
the permit holder has rearranged or reconfigured the tables, chairs, or other
furnishings used for outdoor seating purposes or otherwise revised the outdoor
seating area from the previous permit year.
   (F)   Denial of application; reconsideration.
      (1)   The town shall notify the applicant in writing if it is determined
that the proposed outdoor seating area does not meet the criteria established
by this section. The notice shall identify which criteria were not met.
      (2)   Within 30 days of denial, the applicant may submit for
reconsideration one revised plan for an outdoor seating area for the same
business. The payment of a new application fee is not required.
      (3)   A revised plan that is submitted for reconsideration after the 30
day period has expired must be accompanied by a new application, including the
application fee.
   (G)   Operation of outdoor seating areas.
      (1)   An outdoor seating and dining area may be used only by the
permitted business identified in the permit and only for the seating of patrons
in the furniture provided by the permit holder.
      (2)   A permit holder may place one host station, removable tables,
chairs, or other items used in conjunction with seating within an outdoor
seating area in the arrangement shown on the permit. No cash registers, tents,
minibars or similar appurtenances shall be permitted. Furniture in an outdoor
seating area shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      (3)   A permit holder may rearrange or reconfigure approved tables,
chairs, and other furnishings in the permitted outdoor seating area without
submitting a new application and without any fee only if:
         (a)   No prior rearrangement or reconfiguration had been submitted
within the permit year.
         (b)   The permit holder within seven days of the reconfiguration
provides the department with a scaled drawing or site plan of architectural
design standard quality of the new placement; and
         (c)   The furnishings or their new placement do not:
            1.   Extend outside of the approved area;
            2.   Constitute a danger to the health or safety of a patron or the
public; or
            3.   Otherwise violate the terms of the permit.
      (4)   Outdoor seating areas shall be open to the air, except that seating
may be located under approved umbrellas, awnings, or canopies.
      (5)   A permit holder must provide stanchions or other portable, visible,
above-ground barrier between the approved outdoor seating area and the
remainder of the public sidewalk whenever the outdoor seating area is in use.
      (6)   Nothing shall be permanently affixed to a sidewalk or to other
public property.
      (7)   The permit holder and the permitted business shall not operate
outside the area specified in the permit.
      (8)   Permit holders and operators shall keep all licenses and permits
required for their business operations continuously in effect.
      (9)   Permit holders and operators shall ensure that the permitted
business obeys all laws related to alcohol service and consumption. Permit
holders shall post visible signs at all exit points from the outdoor seating
area to the public sidewalk reminding patrons that they cannot possess open
containers of alcohol outside the public seating area. To retain an outdoor
seating area permit, permit holders and operators shall ensure that no alcohol
is served or consumed outside the permitted outdoor seating area.
      (10)   An outdoor seating area may be used by the permit holder only when
the permitted business is open to customers.
      (11)   No outdoor seating area shall operate after 2:00 a.m. on Saturday
or Sunday. No outdoor seating area shall operate after 12:00 a.m. on any other
day of the week. Permit holders shall ensure that their outdoor seating areas
are not available for use after the hours specified in this subsection.
       (12)   The maximum occupancy permitted in the outdoor seating area shall
be posted on the exterior of the building in a conspicuous place. The permit
holder shall ensure that the number of occupants in the outdoor seating area
does not exceed the posted limit at any time. A server or other person employed
by the permit holder who briefly enters and exits an outdoor sealing area shall
not be considered an occupant for the purposes of this division.
      (13)   The permit holder shall keep the outdoor seating area and the
adjacent 7 feet of public space surrounding it clean of any solid waste,
including, food debris, paper, cups, bottles, cans, and other garbage
associated with the operation of the outdoor seating area space on a daily
basis. The public right-of-way within and adjacent to the outdoor seating area
must be washed down with water and detergent when needed and cleaned on a daily
basis. Any stains from spills must be removed. The permit holder must properly
dispose of all waste and trash.
      (14)   The permit holder is responsible for the maintenance, upkeep, and
security of furniture and accessories used in the outdoor seating area.
   (H)   Additional Requirements for N.C. DOT Streets. In addition to the
requirements set out in this section, when an outdoor seating area is located
on a sidewalk along an N.C. Department of Transportation street or highway,
applicants and permit holders shall meet all requirements established by the
N.C. Department of Transportation. Those requirements are contained within
North Carolina G.S. § 136-27.4 and can be found at:https://www.ncleg.net/
EnactedLegislation/Statutes/PDF/BySection/Cha_pter_136/GS_136-27.4.pdf
   (I)   Assignment prohibited; effect of ceasing business operations. An
outdoor seating area permit is not transferable or assignable. The permit
authorizes use of the outdoor seating area by the permit holder for the
permitted business. Any change in the ownership of a business after the
issuance of an outdoor seating area permit shall cause the permit to be
immediately invalid and require the new owner to reapply for the permit. A
change in ownership shall mean acquisition of more than 10% of the stock in a
publicly traded corporation, any change in the ownership of shares in a
privately held corporation, sale of all or part of a sole proprietorship, or
any change in the membership of any form of limited liability organization.
   (J)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Civil penalties. 
         (a)   Violations of any of the provisions of this section will result
in the following civil penalties:
            1.   First offense in any 12-month period: $100.
            2.   Subsequent offense in any 12-month period: $500.
         (b)   The Town Manager or the Manager's designee may issue a notice of
violation assessing civil penalties. The notice shall be issued in writing and
shall set forth with reasonable specificity the basis for the civil penalty.
The notice of violation shall be served by registered or certified mail, or by
personal service. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy
of the notice may also be sent by first class mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the first class mail is not returned by the Post Office within 10
days after the mailing. Refusal to accept the notice shall not relieve the
violator of the obligation to pay the penalty.
         (c)   The notice of violation shall contain a time period by which the
violation must be corrected. From and after the date specified in the notice,
each subsequent day that the violation continues in existence shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense subject to additional civil penalties.
         (d)   If a person fails to pay any civil penalty within 30 days after
the decision becomes final, the town may recover the penalty, together with all
costs allowed by law, by filing a civil action in the General Court of Justice
in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
      (2)   Other remedies. In addition to civil penalties and permit
suspension, a violation of this division is a misdemeanor and may also be
enforced through injunctive or other equitable relief, or a combination of
remedies.
      (3)   Appeals. 
         (a)   A party aggrieved may appeal any decision under this section to
the Town Manager within 15 calendar days after the contested decision. An
appeal must be made in writing and shall contain the reasons supporting the
appeal and any evidence that supports it. The person appealing may review the
evidence that is the basis of any suspension or violation during the town's
normal business hours. The Town Manager or his designee shall review the
information provided and shall issue a written decision determining whether a
violation has occurred.
         (b)   After receiving a determination from the Town Manager or his
designee, a party aggrieved may appeal to the Town Council within 21 calendar
days after the Town Manager's decision (or the decision of his designee) was
mailed. The scope of the Town Council's review shall be limited to verifying
the facts supporting a written decision or findings of fact made on a
suspension. If the Town Council finds that the facts as found are correct, the
civil penalty, administrative fee, or suspension shall not be disturbed.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-6-2018; Am. Ord. 2021- 05, passed 5-3-2021)
PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS
  § 90.20 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across any
public sidewalk, walkway or parkway or into any street, or cut any curb for
that purpose, without first having obtained a permit as required in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-9)
   (B)   Each application for a permit under this subchapter shall be made to
the Town Clerk and shall state, among other things, the location, grade and
dimensions of the proposed driveway and the purpose for which it is desired. If
the proposed driveway complies with provisions of this subchapter, the Town
Clerk shall issue a permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 15-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board of Commissioners to suppress and remove nuisances, see
G.S.§ 160A-193
§ 90.21 CONTROL OF ESTABLISHMENT; STANDARDS.
   The establishment of driveways and entrances to streets shall be under the
supervision and control of the Board of Commissioners, who shall have the power
to establish standards.
(Prior Code, § 15-11)
§ 90.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION; COSTS.
   (A)   Every person who intends to use any portion of the sidewalk as a
private driveway shall, if the Superintendent of Streets certifies that the
sidewalk area is inadequate for vehicular traffic, reconstruct the sidewalk in
a manner that the sidewalk is capable of carrying vehicular traffic without
creating pedestrian hazards, and in accordance with the specifications of the
Superintendent of Streets with respect to slope, drainage, reinforcement,
finish and other construction features.
(Prior Code, § 15-12)
   (B)   All costs of constructing driveways as required by this subchapter
shall be paid for by the property owners of the property where the driveways
are constructed.
(Prior Code, § 15-13)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 90.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any hole, ditch or excavation in
or under any street, sidewalk or public place in the town without first having
procured a permit so to do from the Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 15-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.36 BOND OR CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each applicant for a permit required by this subchapter shall, as a
prerequisite to the issuance thereof, file with the Superintendent of Streets a
bond payable to the town, and in an amount as the Superintendent of Streets
shall consider adequate, conditioned upon restoration of the surface of the
place to be excavated in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter;
provided, that in lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be made with the Town
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 15-15)
§ 90.37 RESTORATION OF SURFACES.
   It shall be the duty of every holder of a permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter to put the street, sidewalk or public place in as good condition in
all respects as it was prior to the beginning of work under the permit, and
every day of failure so to do shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.38 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   Every holder of a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall take
precautions as may be necessary for the protection of persons, animals and
property from injury. The precautions shall include the erection and
maintenance of barriers and lights, and the Superintendent of Streets may
prescribe in the permit other precautions as he or she may deem necessary or
prudent.
(Prior Code, § 15-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.39 WORK TO BE PROSECUTED DILIGENTLY.
   Permit holders under this subchapter shall prosecute their work with due
diligence, to the end that the work may be completed and the surface restored
without undue delay.
(Prior Code, § 15-18)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE DEPARTMENT, FIRE PREVENTION AND FIREWORKS
Section
Fire Prevention and Fireworks
   
91.01   Sale of fireworks and the like
   
91.02   Obedience to police and firefighters; arrests
   
91.03   Fire prevention code adopted
   
91.04   Municipality defined
   
91.05   Limits for storage of explosives and the like
   
91.06   Permits; inspection and permit fees
   
91.07   Administration and enforcement; modifications
   
91.08   Decision of Fire Department Chief; appeals
   
91.09   Updating procedure; penalties; conflicts of law
   
91.10   Outdoor fires
Fire Department
   
91.20   Composition and organization
   
91.21   Additional duties of Chief
   
91.22   Rules and regulations
   
91.23   Authority of members; interference with firefighters
   
91.24   Construction and bylaws for volunteer members
   
91.25   First Responders Unit
 
   
91.99   Penalties
FIRE PREVENTION AND FIREWORKS
§ 91.01 SALE OF FIREWORKS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale in the town
any firecrackers, fireworks or pyrotechnics of any kind or any nature
whatsoever except as expressly allowed and condoned by the General Assembly of
the State of North Carolina by duly ratified and published General Statute.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Am. Ord. passed 4-5-1994)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection generally, see G.S. Ch.69
   Regulations of the board of water and air resources, see G.S. §§ 143-211 et
seq.
   Sale and use of pyrotechnics and fireworks, see G.S. §§ 14-410 to 14-415
§ 91.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS; ARRESTS.
   (A)   Every person present at the scene of a fire shall obey all lawful
orders of firefighters and police officers in any matter relating to
extinguishing the fire, removal and protection of persons and property
endangered by fire, smoke or water, freedom of Fire Department personnel and
apparatus to perform their duties or to function properly, or the maintenance
of order at or near the scene of the fire, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to disobey any order of a firefighter or police officer.
   (B)   Firefighters and police officers at the scene of any fire shall have
authority to arrest any person wilfully disobeying any lawful order and to hold
the violator in custody until the fire has been extinguished, at which time he
or she shall be dealt with according to law.
(Prior Code, § 8-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
that certain code known as the North Carolina State Building Code Fire
Prevention Code, 2002 edition and all appendices thereof, and the whole
thereof, of which code not less than 1 copy is now and shall remain on file in
the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The code is hereby adopted and incorporated in this subchapter as
fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the town.
   (C)   The code adopted by this section shall be known and may be cited as
the Fire Prevention Code.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
§ 91.04 MUNICIPALITY DEFINED.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall
be construed to mean the Town of Wilkesboro.
(Prior Code, § 8-4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate, control and prohibit keeping, use and the
like of explosives, oil, gasoline and the like, see G.S. § 160A-183
   Fire escapes and fire doors, see G.S. § 143-138
   Safety provisions for hotels, see G.S. § 51-81-5
§ 91.05 LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND THE LIKE.
   The limits referred to in § 53b of the Fire Prevention Code, in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited; the limits referred to
in § 74a of that code, in which storage of class I liquids in outside
aboveground tanks is prohibited; and the limits referred to in § 114 of the
code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are
hereby established to coincide with the Fire District established for the town,
and should the Fire District be changed, this section shall ipso facto be
amended accordingly; provided, that the storage of any such materials, liquids
or gasses as permitted in the Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted as therein
authorized.
(Prior Code, § 8-5)
§ 91.06 PERMITS; INSPECTION AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permits covered by § 17 of the Fire Prevention Code and required in
various articles thereof are for the purpose of giving the Board of
Commissioners, through the Chief of the Fire Department, more effective control
over hazardous conditions regulated by the code. Each permit shall be for not
more than 1 year, subject to renewal thereof; provided, that where a town
license is required periodically, in addition to a permit, then the permit
shall be for an indefinite period.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, adopt a schedule of
fees for permits and inspections required by the Fire Prevention Code, and when
the resolution has been placed on file in the office of the Town Clerk, no
permit shall be issued and no inspection shall be made until the fee therefor,
as provided in the schedule, has been paid to the Tax Collector.
(Prior Code, § 8-6)
§ 91.07 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be administered and enforced by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-7)
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee of the property affected thereby, or his or her duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of the modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Chief of
the Fire Department thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the
Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-8)
§ 91.08 DECISION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT CHIEF; APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Fire Prevention Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Board of
Commissioners within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 8-9)
  § 91.09 UPDATING PROCEDURE; PENALTIES; CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   (A)   Whenever a new or revised edition of the Fire Prevention Code,
Abbreviated Edition, is recommended by the American Insurance Association or
its successor, the Chief of the Fire Department shall file at least 1 copy
thereof in the office of the Town Clerk, together with his or her
recommendations, if any, as to amendments thereof, and he or she shall,
concurrently, notify the Mayor and each Commissioner of his or her action.
Following the actions by the Chief of the Fire Department, the new or revised
edition, together with the recommendations, if any, of the Chief of the Fire
Department, shall, at the conclusion of the second regular meeting of the Board
of Commissioners following the date of filing and notification, become the Fire
Prevention Code of the town, replacing the then current code, provided, that no
action shall have been taken thereon by the Board of Commissioners prior to the
conclusion of the second meeting; and provided further, that the Town Clerk
shall make an appropriate entry in the minutes of the Board of Commissioners
following the second meeting.
(Prior Code, § 8-10)
   (B)   In the event of conflict between any provision of the Fire Prevention
Code and any provision of state law (including the North Carolina State
Building Code) or any rule or regulation made pursuant to state law, the state
law or rule or regulation made pursuant thereto shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 8-12)
§ 91.10 OUTDOOR FIRES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide education and
guidelines for town citizens regarding the various types of fires, both
permitted and restricted within the city limits for the Town of Wilkesboro.
Penalties could be enforced for non-permitted or noncompliant fires;
information regarding penalties is also referenced.
   (B)   Outdoor fires. Recreational fires, portable outdoor fireplaces/fire
pits, stationary outdoor fireplaces and stationary outdoor fire pits are
regulated by the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code and do not require an
open-burning operational permit. Fire safety is still the responsibility of the
individual selling a fire regardless to whether a permit is required or not
(NCFC 307).
   (C)   Recreational fires. Recreational fires are defined by the North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code as fires three feet or less in diameter and two
feet or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or
similar purposes. Recreational fires are not considered open burning and do not
require an open burning operational permit (NCFC 307.4.2).
      (1)   Recreational fires shall be at least 25 feet from a structure or
combustible material.
      (2)   Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet of a
structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
      (3)   Shall not be used to burn rubbish, yard waste, or burn material
contained in an incinerator. If found or reported would be a punishable
violation of this section.
      (4)   Outdoor fireplaces, barbecue grills, barbecue pits, or bonfires are
not considered recreational fires.
   (D)   Portable outdoor fireplaces/fire pits.
      (1)   Portable outdoor fireplaces/fire pits are defined by the North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code as a portable, outdoor, solid-fuel-burning
fireplace that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay or other
noncombustible material. A portable outdoor fireplace may be open in design or
may be equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney or chimney
opening in the top.
      (2)   Portable outdoor fireplaces are not considered open burning and do
not require an open burning operational permit.
      (3)   Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      (4)   Portable outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated within 25 feet of
a structure or combustible material.
      (5)   Shall not be used to burn rubbish or yard waste (NCFC 307.4.3).
   (E)   Stationary outdoor fireplaces. Stationary outdoor fireplaces are site
constructed, permanent in nature, solid-fuel-burning, and may be constructed of
stone, brick, concrete, clay, or other noncombustible material. A stationary
outdoor fireplace will normally have a hearth, fire box, and chimney or stack.
      (1)   Stationary outdoor fireplaces are not considered open burning and
do not require an open burning operational permit. Stationary outdoor
fireplaces must be at least five feet from property lines and require a
building permit for construction if it is located less than ten feet from any
building or roofed structure or if the length or width of the fireplace is
greater than 12 feet.
      (2)   If the fireplace is within ten feet of any building or roofed
structure, the chimney of the fireplace must extend at least two feet above the
building or roofed structure.
      (3)   Shall not be used to burn rubbish or yard waste.
   (F)   Stationary outdoor fire pits. Stationary outdoor fire pits are site
constructed, permanent in nature, solid-fuel-burning and may be constructed of
stone, brick, concrete, metal, or other noncombustible material. The stationary
outdoor fire pit may be dug in the ground or above ground and is designed to
contain a fire and prevent it from spreading.
      (1)   Stationary outdoor fire pits are not considered open burning and do
not require an open burning operational permit.
      (2)   Stationary outdoor fire pits. must be at least five feet from
property lines.
      (3)   At least 15 feet from structures to include decks.
      (4)   Shall not be used to burn rubbish or yard waste (NCFC 307.1).
   (G)   Open burning. Open burning in the Town of Wilkesboro is regulated by
the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code and the Town of Wilkesboro Code of
Ordinances and is prohibited unless an open burning operational permit is
issued by the Fire Marshal of the Town of Wilkesboro.
      (1)   The North Carolina Fire Prevention Code defines open burning as the
burning of materials wherein products of combustion are emitted directly into
the ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed
chamber.
      (2)   When necessary and as deemed appropriate by the Fire Marshal of the
Town of Wilkesboro, the Wilkesboro Fire Department will start, maintain and
extinguish a permitted open burn by trained and certified fire department
staff.
   (H)   Bonfires. Bonfires are defined by the North Carolina Fire Prevention
Code as an outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes. These are typically
large fires in conjunction with a planned event such as a school prep rally or
holiday event.
      (1)   Bonfires are considered open burning and do require an open burning
operational permit.
      (2)   A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet of a structure or
combustible material and conditions, which could cause the fire to spread
within 50 feet of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
      (3)   Shall not be used to burn rubbish or yard waste (NCFC 307.4.1).
   (I)   Land clearing.
      (1)   Outdoor burning for land clearing activities due to site
development in the Town of Wilkesboro jurisdiction is regulated by the Town of
Wilkesboro Fire Marshal and the North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ).
      (2)   Outdoor burning for the purpose of land clearing is considered open
burning and does require an open burning operational permit.
      (3)   Open burning for land clearing requires 1,000-feet separation to
any dwelling or structure not on the property (see G.S. § 106-940).
   (J)   Penalties; enforcement.
      (1)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Violations of any of the provisions of this section will result
in the following civil penalties:
            1.   First offense in any 12-month period: $100.
            2.   Subsequent offense in any 12 months: $500.
         (b)   The manager's designee may issue a notice of violation assessing
civil penalties. The notice shall be issued in writing and shall set forth with
reasonable specificity the basis for the civil penalty. The notice of violation
shall be served by registered or certified mail, or by personal service.
         (c)   If the person fails to pay any civil penalty within 30 days, the
town may recover the penalty, together with all costs allowed by law, by filing
a civil action in the General Court of Justice in the nature of a suit to
collect debt.
      (2)   Appeals.
         (a)   A party aggrieved may appeal any decision under this section to
the Town Manager within 15 calendar days after the penalty notification. An
appeal must be made in writing and shall contain the reasons supporting the
appeal and any evidence that supports it. The person appealing may review the
evidence that is the basis of the penalty or violation during the town's normal
business hours. The Town Manager or his designee shall review the information
provided and shall issue a written decision regarding penalty.
         (b)   After receiving a determination from the Town Manager or his
designee, a party aggrieved may appeal to the Town Council within 21 calendar
days after the Town Manager's decision (or the decision of the designee) was
mailed. The scope of the Town Council's review shall be limited to verifying
facts supporting a written decision or findings of fact made regarding the
penalty. If the Town Council finds that the facts as found are correct, the
civil penalty and administrative fee(s) shall not be disturbed.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-3-2020)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 91.20 COMPOSITION AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of full time and volunteer members,
and quarters, vehicles, apparatus, equipment and other property as may from
time to time be authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The organization of the Fire Department shall be as provided by
regulations promulgated pursuant to §
91.22.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department, under general supervision of the
Mayor, shall have direct control of the members and property of the Fire
Department and shall be in command of the members. Members of the Fire
Department shall assume command in order of rank; as prescribed in Departmental
rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-13)
§ 91.21 ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   In addition to his or her duties as Commanding Officer of the Fire
Department, the Chief of the Fire Department shall perform all duties
prescribed for him or her by this code and other ordinances and by the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
(Prior Code, § 8-14)
§ 91.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor, in consultation with the Chief of the Fire Department, shall
prepare rules and regulations for the government of the Fire Department and the
personnel thereof. The rules and regulations, which may be amended from time to
time, shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for approval. It shall
be unlawful for any member of the Fire Department to violate any rule or
regulation which has been approved by resolution of the Board of Commissioners
and placed on file in the office of the Town Clerk; and a copy of all approved
rules and regulations shall also be placed on file at Fire Department
headquarters.
(Prior Code, § 8-15)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of Chief of Fire Department, see G.S. §§ 160A-291,
160A-292
   Authority of town to maintain Fire Department, see G.S. § 160A-291
   Authority to provide fire protection to property beyond town, see G.S. §
160A-293
   Investigations and reports by Chief of Fire Department, see G.S. §§ 58-79-
1 et seq.
§ 91.23 AUTHORITY OF MEMBERS; INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   Members of the Fire Department shall have authority to do all acts
reasonably necessary to extinguish fires and protect life and property from
fire; it shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner of property
which is burning, wilfully to interfere in any manner with any firefighter in
the performance of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 8-16) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 CONSTRUCTION AND BYLAWS FOR VOLUNTEER MEMBERS.
   The constitution and bylaws applicable to volunteer members of the Fire
Department shall be consistent with state law, this code and other ordinances
and the rules and regulations of the Fire Department, and provision shall be
made for election of officers at the first meeting in November in each year and
for the holding of at least 1 practice drill per month, with the names of those
participating to be reported monthly to the Chief of the Fire Department.
Constitution and bylaws and all amendments thereto shall be approved by the
Board of Commissioners, by resolution or motion, and filed in the office of the
Town Clerk, before taking effect. A copy of the approved constitution and by-
laws shall also be on file in the office of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-17)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of uniformed regular and volunteer members of the Fire Department
to direct traffic at scene of fire, see G.S. § 20-114.1
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 58-81-5 through 58-81-15
§ 91.25 FIRST RESPONDERS UNIT.
   (A)   The Wilkesboro First Responders Unit will abide by and be subject to
all rules, regulations, bylaws and the constitution of the Wilkesboro Volunteer
Fire Department. All Wilkesboro First Responders shall be members of the
Wilkesboro Volunteer Fire Department. The Mayor, in consultation with the Chief
of the Fire Department and the highest ranking Unit Officer liaison of the
Wilkesboro First Responders Unit, shall prepare rules and regulation for the
government of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit and the personnel thereof.
Rules and regulations, which may be amended from time to time, shall be
submitted to the Board of Commissioners for approval. It shall be unlawful for
any member of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit to violate any rule or
regulation of the Wilkesboro Fire Department or Wilkesboro First Responders
Unit which has been approved by resolution of the Board of Commissioners and
placed on file in the office of the Town Clerk; a copy of approved rules and
regulations shall also be placed on file at Fire Department headquarters and/or
First Responders headquarters. The constitution and/or bylaws applicable to
volunteer members of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit shall be consistent
with state law and the constitution and bylaws applicable to volunteer members
of the Wilkesboro Fire Department, this code and other ordinances and rules and
regulations of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit. Provisions shall be made
for election of officers immediately upon recognition by the Town Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit
and thereafter election of officers of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit
will be decided during the monthly meeting in September during even-numbered
years. Constitution and bylaws and all amendments thereto regarding the
Wilkesboro First Responders Unit shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro, by resolution or motion and filed in
the office of the Town Clerk before taking effect. A copy of the approved
constitution and bylaws shall also be filed in the office of the Chief of the
Fire Department and/or the highest ranking officer of the Wilkesboro First
Responders Unit.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-20-1989)
   (B)   (1)   All Wilkesboro first responders will abide by the bylaws of the
Wilkesboro Fire Department. All Wilkesboro first responders will abide by the
bylaws set by the Wilkes County EMS for first responders. Any person wishing to
apply for membership as a Wilkesboro first responder must have been a
productive member of the Wilkesboro Fire Department for at least 1 year prior
to application. The number of Wilkesboro first responders will be limited to 8
members. If the need for additional members arises, the members must be
approved by the First Responder Unit, the officers of the Wilkesboro Fire
Department and consent and authorization of the Town Board of Commissioners of
the Town of Wilkesboro. The structure of the Wilkesboro First Responders Unit
will be as follows:
         (a)   Unit Officers-Liaison whose duties will be to: direct all
meetings of the Wilkesboro first responders, attend quarterly countywide first
responder meetings and to act as a liaison between the Wilkes County EMS and
the Wilkesboro first responders.
         (b)   Unit Officer-Liaison Assistant whose duties will be to assist
the Director-Liaison in his or her duties.
         (c)   Secretary whose duties will be to record member attendance at
meetings and calls. The secretary will record training hours and see that all
members maintain the needed number of training hours.
      (2)   The structure of the First Responder Unit will be decided upon
during the first monthly meeting after recognition by the Wilkesboro Town Board
of Commissioners. The Wilkesboro first responders will hold a monthly meeting
on the fourth Tuesday of every month (or as deemed necessary by the members of
the First Responder Unit). The first first responder on the scene of a call
will advise Wilkes County communications as soon as possible as to the
situation. Wilkesboro first responders will respond to a call only when
dispatched.
      (3)   Any application for membership as a Wilkesboro first responder must
be approved by the existing first responders and the officers of the Wilkesboro
Fire Department. Any first responder acting in a manner not becoming the
Wilkesboro Fire Department and/or the Wilkesboro First Responder Unit shall be
punished in the following manner, unless other rules regarding suspension are
applicable:
         (a)   First offense: Written reprimand;
         (b)   Second offense: Suspension; length determined by officers of the
Wilkesboro Fire Department; and
         (c)   Third offense: Automatic dismissal.
      (4)   Any member of the First Responder Unit who is suspended from the
Wilkesboro Volunteer Fire Department is automatically suspended from the First
Responder Unit until reinstatement in good standing of the member with the
Wilkesboro Volunteer Fire Department.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary/Treasurer to receive and keep
an accurate record of all monies and/or securities and bonds belonging to the
Wilkesboro First Responders Unit. The secretary/treasurer shall keep a record
of all funds disbursed by him or her. All disbursements, other than current
obligations, shall be subject to approval by a majority of members present. The
secretary/treasurer shall make a financial report at each monthly meeting and
make an annual account to the Town Board of the Town of Wilkesboro.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-20-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Franchises; miscellaneous, see TSO Table
II
§ 91.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made thereunder, and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the
Board of Commissioners or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed therein, shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by fine of not more than
$50 or by imprisonment for not more than 60 days, in the discretion of the
court. The imposition of 1 penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all those persons shall be required to
correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each 10 days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-11)
CHAPTER 92: DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permit required
   
92.03   Permits; issuance, denial and revocation
   
92.04   Acts prohibited
   
92.05   Interference with permitted activity prohibited
   
92.06   Picketing regulations
   
92.07   Parade and group demonstration regulations
   
92.08   Exceptions for chapter
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Board of Commissioners to adopt ordinances for the regulation
and use of streets, squares, parks and other public property for the public
welfare, see G.S. § 160A-296
   Authority to provide for the regulation, diversion and limitation of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic upon the public streets and sidewalks, see
G.S. § 160A-300
   General police powers of town, see G.S. § 160A-174
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. That portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among 2 or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to
assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, parks or other public grounds or
places.
   PICKET LINE. Any 2 or more persons formed together for the purpose of making
known any position or promotion of persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 92.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the town unless a permit has been issued by the
town in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 PERMITS; ISSUANCE, DENIAL AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to issue permits as required in the
preceding section, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of a parade, picket line or group demonstration. An
application shall be on a form prescribed by the Chief, shall be signed by the
applicant or applicants, including the person or persons to be in charge as
mentioned in division (A)(4) of this section, and shall show the proposed time,
place, purpose and size of the parade, picket line or group demonstration and
whether or not any minors below the age of 18 years shall participate;
      (2)    Refuse to issue a permit when the activity or purpose stated in
the application would violate any ordinance of the town or statute of the state
or the United States or when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear
and present danger to the public health or safety or would hinder or prevent
the orderly movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets,
sidewalks or public places in the town;
      (3)    Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18
years will be permitted to participate. The Chief shall pass upon whether or
not minors may participate, and shall base his or her determination upon
whether or not the purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be
detrimental to or endanger the health, safety or welfare of the minors, or will
interfere with their education;
      (4)    Require that the application for a permit shall specify, and the
permit shall designate, the person or persons in charge of the activity. This
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group
demonstration and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The
permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person;
      (5)   The permit may set the starting time, duration, route, speed of
travel and space between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or
group demonstration; may prescribe the portions or areas of streets, sidewalks
or other public places to be used; and may impose other reasonable requirements
as the Chief may prescribe for the control and free movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or for the health, safety and property rights of the
participants and the general public;
      (6)    Require that the application for permit shall contain other
pertinent information as the Chief reasonably may need in order to determine
the purposes and character of the activity for which the permit is sought and
whether the activity would or would not constitute a clear and present danger
to the public health or safety or hinder or prevent the orderly movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, sidewalks or public places in
the town; and
      (7)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following:
         (a)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from
other necessary duties;
         (b)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their
property; and/or
         (c)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, and will not prevent
normal police and fire protection to the public, and will not be likely to
cause injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to
create a public disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade,
picket line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
      (1)   The violation by any participant of any provision of this chapter;
and/or
      (2)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)
§ 92.04 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of any parade, picket line or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to: blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or vicious animal, whether leashed or
unleashed; and/or
   (C)   The carrying or displaying of any flag or emblem of any foreign state
or any foreign political party or other organization which is engaged in
hostilities against the armed forces of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 7-4) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 92.05 INTERFERENCE WITH PERMITTED ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 7-6) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 92.06 PICKETING REGULATIONS.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than 10 pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the 2 sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding 2
feet in width and 2 feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, that the words used are not derogatory or
defamatory in nature.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not be
allowed to walk more than 5 feet from curb line and shall be in continuous
motion.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and the use would result in the presence of more than 10
pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of pickets
for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)
§ 92.07 PARADE AND GROUP DEMONSTRATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the granting of a parade or group demonstration permit, and
as a condition precedent to the granting of either permit, the Chief of Police
may require that the person named in the application as the one to be in charge
of the parade or group demonstration shall give good bond to the town, with
corporate surety and in an amount as the Chief may consider necessary,
conditioned upon the full satisfaction of all claims, judgments and decrees
which may result by reason of any negligent or unlawful act or omission of any
person managing or participating in the parade or group demonstration and
covered by the permit, and that he or she will save the town harmless
therefrom; and with the further condition that he or she shall pay to the town
all extra expenses incurred for clearing the town's streets, sidewalks and
public places of litter resulting from the occurrence of the parade or group
demonstration and for the cleansing and repair of public property defaced,
soiled or damaged by paraders or demonstrators.
   (B)   Any applicant for a parade or group demonstration permit who feels
aggrieved by the decision of the Chief of Police made pursuant to division (A)
above may appeal from the decision to the Board of Commissioners; and the Board
shall consider the appeal at its next meeting, at which the applicant may
appear, with counsel, to present his or her case. After hearing the appeal, the
Board shall waive or uphold the requirement for bond, and if the requirement
for bond is upheld, the Board may amend the terms and conditions thereof as in
its sound discretion shall be in the best interests of the town, and the
decision of the Board shall be final.
   (C)   Bonds required by this section shall be approved as to form and surety
by the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)
§ 92.08 EXCEPTIONS FOR CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; but funeral directors are requested to give
advance notice to the Chief of Police so that he or she may arrange for the
expeditious handling of traffic;
   (B)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity where the activity is under the
supervision and direction of proper school authorities; and
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 7-9)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Animal Regulations
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Running at large
   
93.03   Hogs, pigs and shoats
   
93.04   Maintenance of pens, coops and the like
   
93.05   Grazing; where prohibited
   
93.06   Reckless riding and driving; horses and mules on streets
   
93.07   Disposal of carcasses
Dogs
   
93.20   Required listing for taxation
   
93.21   Rabies; vaccination tag and certificate
   
93.22   Running at large
   
93.23   Vicious dogs
   
93.24   Declaration of nuisance
   
93.25   Town park
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL ANIMAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. An animal or fowl shall be considered to be AT LARGE when it is
off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of a responsible
person either by leash, cord or otherwise.
   DOG.  Any canine animal, male or female.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring an animal or fowl within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
§ 93.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any horse, sheep, livestock, barnyard animal, fowl or
poultry or any nondomestic, dangerous or offensive animal owned, kept or
harbored by him or her to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 4-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate or restrain animals running at large, see G.S.
§ 160A-186
§ 93.03 HOGS, PIGS AND SHOATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep any hog,
pig, shoat, or any cow, bull, calf or any domestic bovine animal irrespective
of sex or age within the town limits of the Town of Wilkesboro.
(Prior Code, § 4-3) (Am. Ord. passed 11-30-1992)
§ 93.04 MAINTENANCE OF PENS, COOPS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Each stable, pen, hutch, coop or other place wherein any animal or
fowl is kept shall be maintained at all times in a clean, sanitary and
unoffensive condition and shall conform to all the requirements of the Health
Departments of the town, county and state.
   (B)   Any stable, pen, hutch, coop or other place wherein any animal or fowl
is kept which becomes offensive to persons residing in the neighborhood or
which becomes a menace to the public health is declared to constitute a
nuisance and, as such, subject to abatement as provided by law. The provisions
of this division are made applicable within the territory 1 mile beyond the
town in all directions.
(Prior Code, § 4-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 GRAZING; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any horse, sheep or livestock
owned, kept or harbored by him or her or under his or her control to graze on
any street right of way or on any public property in the town, or upon any
property not zoned for those purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 RECKLESS RIDING AND DRIVING; HORSES AND MULES ON STREET.
   No person shall ride or drive any horse or mule on the streets of the town
at a reckless rate of speed or in any manner dangerous to persons or property;
nor shall any person turn any horse or mule loose on the streets of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DISPOSAL OF CARCASSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any street, public
place or public or private premises in the town any animal or fowl carcass or
part thereof.
   (B)   Property owners shall be responsible for the prompt, sanitary and
lawful disposal of animal and fowl carcasses found upon their property, and
carcasses which remain on private property for 8 hours after notice to the
property owner or occupant to so dispose of any carcass may be removed by the
town at the expense of the property owner, the expense to be collected in the
same manner as property taxes. Any notice pursuant to this section which cannot
be given personally may be served by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous
place on the property whereon the carcass is found.
   (C)   Animal and fowl carcasses found upon the streets or other public
places shall be taken up by the office or department of the town designated by
the Mayor and shall be disposed of in a sanitary and lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-7) Penalty, see §
93.99
DOGS
§ 93.20 REQUIRED LISTING FOR TAXATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or keeper of a dog which is 6
months or more of age to list the dog for taxes at the same time and place that
other personal property is listed.
   (B)   In listing a dog as provided in division (A) above, the owner or
keeper shall state the dog's breed, age, markings and sex, and if the dog be a
female, whether spayed or not spayed.
(Prior Code, § 4-8)
§ 93.21 RABIES; VACCINATION TAG AND CERTIFICATE.
   Each person owning a dog of the age of 6 months or more shall have the dog
vaccinated to prevent rabies, and the vaccination shall be given according to
the directions and instructions of a duly licensed veterinarian or physician.
Each person, immediately after having his or her dog vaccinated, shall place on
the dog's collar a tag furnished by the party doing the vaccination, to be worn
by the dog at all times; and he or she shall then file with the Town Clerk a
certificate of vaccination, which shall be recorded by the Clerk in his or her
office, and shall be prima facie evidence that the dog owner has complied with
this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-11)
§ 93.22 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or keeping any bitch to
knowingly permit her to run at large during the erotic stage of copulation.
   (B)   Dogs 6 months or more of age shall not be permitted to run at large
without wearing a collar to which is attached a town dog license tag for the
current year and a rabies vaccination tag showing current immunization from
rabies.
(Prior Code, § 4-12) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 VICIOUS DOGS.
   Each owner of a dog which is known to be vicious or to have bitten or
attacked a person shall keep the dog securely enclosed on his or her premises
and shall not permit the dog to run at large; and the dog, while off the
premises of the owner, shall be securely muzzled so as to prevent the biting of
any person, and shall be securely attached to a leash to be held by the owner
or some other responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Rabies control, see G.S. Chapter 130A
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 67-2
§ 93.24 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The keeping or maintenance outside a proper enclosure of any dog
or dogs having dangerous or destructive propensities is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and shall be abated as provided in this section.
      (2)   The keeping or maintenance of any dog or dogs which by prolonged
and habitual barking, howling or whining causes serious annoyance to the
neighboring resident or residents and interferes with the reasonable use and
enjoyment of the premises occupied by the resident or residents, or with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of the public streets, sidewalks or public areas
is declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided in this
section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section a DOG HAVING DANGEROUS OR DESTRUCTIVE
PROPENSITIES shall mean a dog which has been trained or taught to attack humans
or other animals, or which attacks or attempts to attack persons, or which
habitually turns over garbage cans, habitually destroys shrubs, flowers, grass
or other plants, habitually kills other animals or habitually performs similar
acts.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a written detailed and signed complaint being made to
the Police Department by a resident or residents of the Town of Wilkesboro,
that a person is maintaining a public nuisance as described in division (A)
above; the Chief of Police shall cause the owner or keeper of the dog or dogs
in question to be notified that a complaint has been received and shall cause
the situation complained of to be investigated. The report and findings of the
investigation shall be reduced to writing by the investigating officer.
   (D)   If the written findings of the investigating officer indicate the
complaint or complaints is/are duly justified, then the Chief of Police shall
cause the owner or keeper of the dog or dogs in question to be notified in
writing and ordered to abate nuisance within 48 hours. In the event the owner
or keeper of the dog or dogs is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice
and order along with the general description of the dog or dogs shall be posted
for 48 hours at the Town Hall.
   (E)   On failure of the owner or keeper of the dog or dogs to fail to abate
the nuisance on the order of the Chief of Police within 48 hours, the Chief of
Police shall cause the dog or dogs in question to be impounded. If the owner or
keeper shall so request, the dog or dogs shall be released to him or her upon
his or her execution of his or her written agreement to comply with the
abatement order. If upon the execution of the agreement, the owner or keeper
fails to comply with the order of abatement of the nuisance within 5 days from
the order of the Chief of Police, the owner or keeper shall be considered
guilty of failure to abate the nuisance.
   (F)   In addition, the enforcement of this order may be by injunction,
restraining order or abatement in a court of competent jurisdiction as provided
by G.S. §§ 160A-175(d) and/or 160A-175(e).
(Am. Ord. passed 12-2-1991) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 TOWN PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog to be on the
premises of any Town Park of the Town of Wilkesboro unless the dog is secured
by a leash and accompanied by the person owning or keeping the dog.
   (B)   The activities regulated or prohibited under division (A) herein shall
be enforceable only where signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
that dogs on the premises of a town park shall be leashed. The number, form,
placement and message content of the sign shall be approved by the Parks and
Recreation Director of the Town of Wilkesboro to ensure that the public will
have adequate notice of the conduct prohibited and regulated as set forth
herein.
(Ord. passed 12-7-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned
for not more than 30 days as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(b) and §
10.99 of the Wilkesboro Town Code.
   (C)   Further, §
93.03 may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement in the General Court
of Justice and the Town of Wilkesboro may apply for a mandatory or prohibitory
injunction and order of abatement commanding the defendant to correct the
unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property as provided
by G.S. § 160A-175(e) and §
10.99 of the Wilkesboro Town Code.
   (D)   If any person, being the owner or keeper of dog or dogs for which an
order of abatement has been issued, shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance,
he or she is guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days.
   (E)   Violation of this chapter shall be a Class 3 Misdemeanor as set forth
in G.S. § 14-4(a).
   (F)   This chapter may be enforced by any 1, all, or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed herein, as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(f)
and §
10.99 of the Wilkesboro Town Code.
   (G)   That each day’s continuing violation of this chapter shall be a
separate and distinct offense as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(g) and §
10.99 of the Wilkesboro Town Code.
(Prior Code, § 4-3) (Am. Ord. passed 11-30-1992)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Administration
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Abandoned vehicles; removal
   
94.04   Nuisance vehicles; removal
   
94.05   Junked vehicles; removal
   
94.06   Abandoned, nuisance and junked vehicles; pre-towing
   
94.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
94.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing requirements
   
94.09   Right to probable cause hearing
   
94.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
94.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
94.12   Removal of vehicles from private property
   
94.13   Protection against criminal/civil liability
   
94.14   Exceptions to chapter
   
94.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
94.16   Alternative remedies
§ 94.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be "abandoned" on the public streets and highways
within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Code Administrator
(and/or other public official as designated by the Town Manager) shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposal of abandoned, nuisance
or junked motor vehicles located on private property. The town may, on an
annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to
remove, store, and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles, and junked
motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority or
powers of officers of the Police Department and Fire Department in enforcing
other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7- 2014)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
      (2)   Is left upon a public street or highway for longer than 7 days;
      (3)   Is left upon property owned or operated by the town for longer that
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left upon private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than 2 hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Code Administrator, respectively, designated to order the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7- 2014)
§ 94.03 ABANDONED VEHICLES; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7- 2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 NUISANCE VEHICLES; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or tor the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Code Administrator may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7- 2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 JUNKED VEHICLES; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than 1 junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E), the Code Administrator may
order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in violation of this chapter,
to a storage garage or area. No such vehicle shall be removed from private
property without the written request of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises unless the Code Administrator finds in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner. That finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood, or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of the
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles.
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the town zoning ordinance, provided the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and/or
abutting premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60 calendar days.
Junked motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar days shall be
kept inside a completely enclosed building. The Code Administrator has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate.
      (2)   Any 1 or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding 60
calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as defined
in the town zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.06 ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
94.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and addresses of the registered owner or
person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the
date mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the
vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by
affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a
notice indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified
date (no sooner than 7 days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall
state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no
sooner than 7 days after the notice is mailed or affixed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Adjustment in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Adjustment, and further proceedings to remove
the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the police and public welfare.
   (B)   Those findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal
of vehicles without prior notice include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that the immediate
removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic,
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking,
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone,
         (d)   Parked in loading zones,
         (e)   Parked in bus zones, or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets or
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety, and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, those
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in the kind of location or manner as
to pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST- TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform such
services for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorized town
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle with such notice to include the following;
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, indicating the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his agent. If
the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given within 24
hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be given to
the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (C)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorized town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him of the information set forth in divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. § 44A-1.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where the vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Code Administrator. The town may require any person requesting the removal
of an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private property to
indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of
the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL/CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.14 EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 94.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town, any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provision of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in anyway the power of the town to define and declare nuisances
and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise,
nor shall enforcement of 1 remedy provided herein prevent the enforcement of
any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws. In
addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of the terms of
this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and remedies, as set
forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 4-7-2014)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Declaration of policy
   
95.02   Application of chapter
   
95.03   Prohibited practices enumerated; exceptions
   
95.04   Alleged grievances; establishment of Board of Appeals
   
95.05   Interpretation and conflict
§ 95.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Policy of the Town of Wilkesboro is to assure equal housing
accommodations for sale or for rent.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter relative to discrimination in housing shall
apply to the sale or rental of housing to a person or persons in a single
dwelling unit and to the rental or lease of a portion of a dwelling house
containing accommodations for a family, except when the remainder of the
dwelling is occupied by the owner or a member of his or her immediate family.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITED PRACTICES ENUMERATED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No owner of real property shall discriminate against any other person
because of religion, race, color or national origin, or ancestry of the other
person, of the friends or associates of other persons in regard to the sale or
rental of, or dealings concerning, real property located within the town. Any
discrimination shall be considered an unlawful housing practice.
   (B)   Nothing is this section shall require an owner to offer property to
the public at large before selling or renting it, nor shall this section be
deemed to prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or
buyers for any reason other than religion, race, color or national origin.
   (C)   Nothing in the section shall be construed to bar any organization
operated for religious, charitable or educational purposes, which is operated,
supervised or controlled by an organization which is recognized as being
established for these purposes from limiting admission to or giving preference
to persons legitimately seeking the services of the organization or from making
a selection as is calculated by the organization to promote the principles and
purposes for which it has been established and maintained.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 ALLEGED GRIEVANCES; ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person who contends that the provisions of this chapter have been
violated may file a written complaint under oath with the Town Manager of the
Town of Wilkesboro, hereby designated as the officer to whom complaints shall
be filed. Within a reasonable time after the complaint has been filed, the Town
Manager shall make a determination of the merit’s reasonableness of the
complaint, and shall attempt to adjust the grievance between the parties.
   (B)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall establish a Fair Housing Board
of Appeals, which shall adopt rules governing its organization and for all
proceedings before it, subject to approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
The Board of Appeals shall consist of 4 members and a chairperson appointed by
the Town Board of Commissioners whose terms shall be for 1 year.
   (C)   If the complaint or grievance is not resolved by the parties through
the officer, either party to the alleged complaint or the officer, may appeal
or refer the same to the Fair Housing Board of Appeals. An appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board. Upon an
appeal being properly filed, the officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all papers constituting the record of the matter.
   (D)   The Board shall make a decision and direct what action should be taken
within 45 days of receipt of all papers constituting the record of the matter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.05 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
purpose and spirit for which it is offered shall be of primary concern.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, annul
or circumvent the 1968 Civil Rights Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., or
other laws with regard to fair housing practices. The filing of a complaint
under this section will not preclude the claim from being pursued in any other
court or jurisdiction. It is intended to offer reasonable persons, acting in
good faith, an opportunity to resolve their differences in an atmosphere of a
non-adversary proceeding.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Purpose and intent
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Creation and establishment of Town Tree Board
   
96.04   Tree Board duties and responsibilities
   
96.05   Administration
   
96.06   Public trees - care and protection
   
96.07   Private and government/institutional landowner responsibilities and
rights
   
96.08   Unsafe trees
   
96.09   Tree care and maintenance
   
96.10   Care and maintenance of trees on public property
   
96.11   Regulation of tree care professionals
   
96.12   Maintenance of regulated planting spaces
   
96.13   Removal of regulated trees
   
96.14   Landscaping requirements for commercial development
   
96.15   Street tree plantings
   
96.16   Bufferyards between non-compatible zoning
   
96.17   Parking lot plantings
   
96.18   Credit for existing vegetation
   
96.19   Alternative compliance
   
96.20   Removal of historic trees
   
96.21   Enforcement; notice and appeal
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Town of Wilkesboro, realizing that trees have a profound effect on
the quality of life in the community, deems it necessary and desirable in the
interest of public health, safety and welfare to enact an ordinance for the
preservation, planting, replacement and removal of trees without denying the
reasonable use and enjoyment of real property.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the planting of new trees
and shrubbery; to vigorously encourage the protection of existing trees and
shrubbery, including their root systems; to regulate the preservation,
replacement and indiscriminate removal of trees and to establish procedures for
fulfilling these purposes.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The acting Public Works Director or her or his designee
shall be responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
   CALIPER. Diameter measurement of the trunk taken 6 inches above ground level
for trees up to and including 4-inch-caliper size. Measurements shall be taken
12 inches above the ground for larger tree.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE.  That area of tree roots around the tree measured to be
no less than 1.5 feet in radius for every inch of trunk diameter measured 4
feet above the ground.
   DISEASED TREE. A process in which fungi, bacteria, mycoplasms, and viruses
are able to invade and infect trees causing poor growth and weak appearance,
disruption of plant processes, distortion of certain tree parts and strain or
death of the tree.
   DBH (DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT). The diameter of a tree 4-1/2 feet above the
average ground level.
   GOVERNMENT/INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY. Property owned by the federal, state or
county governments but is located in the town. For the purposes of this chapter
government/institutional property specifically excludes property owned by the
Town of Wilkesboro.
   HISTORIC TREE. A tree that has been specifically designated by the Town of
Wilkesboro Council as historic.
   LARGE MATURING TREE. Any tree whose height exceeds 35 feet at maturity.
   MAINTENANCE. Proper cultural practices including pruning, fertilization,
pest management, and root system protection. The standards of MAINTENANCE are
those published by the National Arborists Association.
   PARK/PUBLIC TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in
public parks and on public property at public facilities, and all area owned by
the town.
   PAVED AREA. Any ground surface covered with concrete, asphalt, stone,
compacted gravel, brick or other paving material.
   PLANNING DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR. The head of the Town of Wilkesboro Planning
Department and person charged with directing the Town Tree Board.
   PRESERVATION. Maintaining a stable environment among mature trees is
critical in delaying the transition from maturity to decline and death.
(Prevention of construction damage, root system care, proper tree care
maintenance, etc.) Tree care PRESERVATION should be proactive and then
reactive. Treatments should be preventative rather than remedial to maintain
tree health once tree decline begins. The periodic inspection of trees for
structural defects such as root system damage.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property that is not owned by a federal, state or local
government.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned by the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina or
that property on which the town maintains a right-of-way.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The head of the Town of Wilkesboro Public Works
Department and person charged with enforcement of this chapter.
   REGULATED TREE. A tree which is located on private property and whose
establishment and/or maintenance is required in order to acquire a certificate
of occupancy for a proposed use.
   REPLACEMENT. Replacement of dead, dying, diseased, or removed trees with
trees of equal or comparable size, species, vigor and health.
   REMOVAL. The cutting down of any tree or shrubbery and all other acts which
cause the actual removal or the effective REMOVAL through damaging, poisoning
or other direct or indirect actions resulting in the death of a tree or
shrubbery.
   ROOT PROTECTION ZONE. Generally, 18 to 24 inches deep and a radius distance
from the trunk of the tree equal to 1 foot for each 1 inch of trunk diameter or
the outermost drip line of the tree, whichever is greater.
   SMALL MATURING TREE. Any tree whose height is less than 35 feet at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the county/town.
   TOWN. The Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
   TOWN ATTORNEY. The Town Attorney for the Town of Wilkesboro or his or her
designee.
   TOWN PROPERTY. All real property which is owned or leased by the town or
which is maintained by it or any part of any town right-of-way.
   TOPPING. Any pruning practice that results in pruning back the main leader
stem of the tree or causes disfigurement of the normal shape of the tree.
   TREE EVALUATION FORMULA. A formula for determining the value of ornamental
trees and shrubs as published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   UNSAFE TREE. For a tree to be considered unsafe, one of the following
criteria must apply:
      (1)   A combination of a structural defect and a target.
         (a)   A structural defect which predisposes the tree to failure; i.e.,
dead tree, trunk decay, dead branches, V-crotches; and
         (b)   A target such as a structure, road, walkway, campsite or other
area where property exists or people reside. In urban areas, target areas are
almost always in close proximity to trees; or
      (2)   A tree that is otherwise structurally sound trees but which
interfere with the routine activities of people. Such interference might
include obstructions, sight distance problems for motorists, buckling of
sidewalks, attracting lightning, or interference with utilities.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.03 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF TOWN TREE BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council may establish a Town Tree Board which shall consist
of 5 voting members who are residents of the Town of Wilkesboro. A slate of
members shall be approved by the Town Council. The term of the 5 persons to be
appointed by the Council at large shall be 3 years, except that the term of 2
of the members appointed to the first board shall be for 2 years and the term
of 1 member of the first board shall be for 4 years. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his/her successor shall be
appointed for the remaining portion of the term. Members of the board shall
serve without compensation.
   (B)   The Tree Board shall serve under the direction of the Town Planning
Department. The Tree Board shall be staffed by the Planning Department Director
or the director's designee. Non-voting members may be added to the Tree Board
as necessary. Such nonvoting members may include, but are not limited to,
persons from the Town Public Works Department, the Town Parks and Recreation
Department, the local public utility servers and the local Cooperative
Extension Service representative. Non-voting members may be nominated by any
voting member of the Tree Board and shall be installed by a simple majority
vote.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.04 TREE BOARD DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study and develop and/
or update annually, specifications for the care, conservation, pruning,
planting, replanting, of publicly owned trees and shrubs in parks, along
streets, and in other public areas. Such information and reports plan will be
presented annually to the Town Council. The Board, when requested by the Town
Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon
any special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
   (B)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (C)   The Town Tree Board develops and maintains arboricultural
specifications for tree care and replacement as follows:
      (1)   A list of desirable trees for planting along streets in 3 size
classes based on mature height: small (under 20 feet,) medium (20 to 35 feet)
and large (over 35 feet).
      (2)   A manual of tree planting and tree maintenance specifications.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Public Works Director. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this chapter, the Public Works Director shall have responsibility and
control over all trees and shrubbery planted or growing in or upon town
property. The Public Works Director shall also have responsibility and control
over all regulated trees, unsafe and diseased trees located upon private
property.
   (B)   Planning Department Director. The Planning Department Director shall
facilitate all functions of the Tree Board. This shall include, but not be
limited to, setting meeting times and place, establishing an agenda,
functioning as a liaison to the Town Council and serving as the Tree Board
representative at public forums.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.06 PUBLIC TREES - CARE AND PROTECTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person except a public utility shall cut,
prune, injure or remove any living tree on or in a public highway, right-of-
way, neutral ground, public park, public place, triangle, sidewalk, or other
public property; or cut or disturb or interfere in any way with the roots of
any tree on public property; or spray with any chemical insecticides or other
oils or whitewash any tree on public property; or place any wire, rope, sign,
poster, barricade, or other fixture on a tree or tree guard on public property;
or injure, misuse or remove any device placed to protect any such tree.
   (A)   No person shall pile building material or other material, about any
tree, plant or shrub in a street in any manner that will in any way injure such
tree, plant or shrub.
   (B)   No person shall pave or place gravel, soil or other such material
within 12 feet of any tree on public property, unless approved by the
administrator.
   (C)   No person shall dump, pour or spill any oil, herbicide, pesticide or
other deleterious matter upon any tree or tree space in any street, or keep or
maintain upon any street, any receptacle from which oil or herbicide, pesticide
or other deleterious matter leaks or drips, or said material onto any parking
or concrete gutter so as to injure any tree on any public property.
   (D)   No person shall use the neutral grounds, parks, sidewalks, or public
places to dump grass clippings, tree trimmings, rocks or refuse of airy nature.
   (E)   No person shall decorate a tree or shrub on any public highway,
neutral ground, park, triangle, or sidewalk, either with or without lights, or
place advertising matter, posters or political placards on trees or in public
properties.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.07 PRIVATE AND GOVERNMENT/INSTITUTIONAL LANDOWNER RESPONSIBILITIES AND
RIGHTS.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not (severely)
obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear
space of 13 feet above street surface or 8 feet above the sidewalk surface.
Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or
decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The town
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private or government/
institutional property when it interferes with visibility of any traffic
control device or sign or sight.
   (B)   Nothing in this section is intended to prohibit the planting of street
trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of
said trees is in accordance with planting specifications of this chapter and
that any such plantings conducted under utility lines shall be limited to
planting material taken from the first 2 classes (small and medium) of Tree
Board's list of desirable trees.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.08 UNSAFE TREES.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof on private or government/institutional property which is unsafe,
injurious to the public welfare or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious
to sewers or other public improvements or is infested with an injurious fungus,
insect or other pest.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may enter upon government/institutional
property in the town to spray, or otherwise treat or cause or order to be
sprayed or otherwise treated, any tree infected or infested by any parasite,
insect or pest when it shall be necessary to do so to prevent the breeding or
scattering of any parasite or animal pest and to prevent danger there from to
persons or property or to trees planted on town property.
   (C)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, the removal of
a tree or shrubbery or government/institutional property shall be necessary,
under the provisions of this section, the Public Works Director shall have the
power to remove such tree or shrubbery or cause or order the same to be done
upon notice and an opportunity to be heard to the property owner.
   (D)   Prior to exercising the authority conferred by this section, the
Public Works Director shall give the owner notice and an opportunity to correct
the condition by requesting that corrective action be taken. The request shall
be in writing to the owner of the property in question and shall be acted upon
within 30 days (or a lesser period of time if an imminent threat to life or
property exists, from the date of the receipt of the request.) If, after 30
days or such less time period, the owner has not corrected the condition or
undertaken action that would lead to a timely correction of the condition, the
Public Works Director may enter upon the property, perform the work necessary
to correct the condition and bill the owner for the actual costs incurred. In
situations involving an imminent threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, the town may act without prior notification to the property owner but
notice shall be given within a reasonable time.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.09 TREE CARE AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Town Council finds and declares that regulation of the cutting,
trimming, and pruning of trees within the town will help ensure that the
health, function and value of trees are protected, and will help to prevent
dangerous branching conditions that may result in danger or injury to citizens
or property.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.10 CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, public grounds, right-of-ways and squares, as may be necessary to insure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
   (B)   All tree work taking place on public property being conducted by
contractors, subcontractors, or town employees will conform to ISA ANSI
standards for tree work.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or
town department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public
property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to shrubs
larger than 3 inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as
to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this provision of this chapter by the Administrator.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any entity, utility, citizen, or tree care
company or government to trench, cut, grade, or fill within the critical root
zone of any public tree without the written consent of the Administrator.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.11 REGULATION OF TREE CARE PROFESSIONALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees or tree
within a public right of way within the town without first applying for and
procuring a permit.
   (B)   In order to receive a permit, applicants must first sign an affidavit
agreeing to abide by ANSI 300 Standards for tree care. A copy of the most
recent ANSI A300 Standards will be available from the Administrator.
Specifically the "topping" of trees shall be prohibited except in cases where
the top of the tree has been injured beyond repair by a storm or related
incident.
   (C)   No permit shall be required of any public service company including
electric utilities and their agents and contractors or town employee doing such
work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   (D)   Before any permit shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of
$300,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the town
or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors
as herein described.
   (E)   The Administrator is authorized to suspend or revoke the tree care
license of any person or business that performs work which does not comply with
tree care standards as specified in this chapter and the related ANSI
standards.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.12 MAINTENANCE OF REGULATED PLANTING SPACES.
   Regulated spaces are those physical areas in which trees and landscape
materials are required by the Tree Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance, Floodplain
Ordinance, Zoning Ordinance or other statute of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of the property where landscaping is required
shall be responsible for the maintenance and protection of all plant and
screening material. Landscaped areas shall be maintained in good condition and
kept free of debris.
   (B)   Failure to maintain or replace dead, damaged, or diseased material or
to repair a broken fence or wall shall constitute a violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to the penalty provisions in §
96.21 if not replaced within 30 days of notification.
   (C)   If an act of God or other catastrophic event occurs which destroys a
large quantity of vegetation, the owner or lessee shall have 120 days to
replant. Replaced plant material must be in compliance with the minimum size,
spacing, and quantity standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.13 REMOVAL OF REGULATED TREES.
   No regulated tree shall be removed without first acquiring a permit from the
Administrator. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to the penalty provisions in §
96.21.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.14 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Applications for zoning permits shall include a landscape plan if 1 or
more of the 4 following conditions are met:
      (1)   The subject property is zoned for non-residential use, grading is
eminent and building is to ensue within 12 months from the date of the start of
grading.
      (2)   Building is planned within 12 months on a previously graded site.
      (3)   Property contains existing commercial use and a disturbance of 50%
or more of the land area is planned for the purpose of renovation or addition.
      (4)   Property contains existing commercial use and the cost of a planned
addition or renovation will meet or exceed 50% of the assessed value of the
property as determined by the Wilkes County tax assessor.
   (B)   The landscape plan shall be submitted in written/design form and shall
conform to the general provisions of this section and all specifications set
out in the applicable guidelines as issued by the town. The landscape plan must
address the following 3 vegetative areas:
      (1)   Street tree plantings;
      (2)   Bufferyards between non-compatible zoning; and
      (3)   Parking lot plantings.
   (C)   A landscape plan shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a zoning
permit, or a landscape plan shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a
building permit. Landscaping must be installed and inspected prior to receiving
a certificate of compliance/ occupancy. Vegetation shall be planted to ensure
the best chance of survival and to reduce the potential expense of replacing
damaged plant materials. If the season or weather conditions prohibit planting
the materials, the developer may provide a bond, an irrevocable letter of
credit, or other financial surety in an amount equal to 150% of the cost of
installing the required landscaping to guarantee the completion of the required
planting. Upon approval of the financial surety, the certificate of compliance/
occupancy shall be issued. The financial surety shall be canceled and/or
returned upon completion of the required landscaping.
   (D)   All trees planted pursuant to this division must be planted in amended
soils as specified in the guidelines. The trees also must be from an approved
list supplied by the town. Where trees are specified to be 2-inch caliper, the
minimum height shall be 8 feet. If multistem trees are used, they must have 3
to 5 stems and posses an average height of 8 or greater at the time of
planting. All trees must comply with the American Standard for Nursery Stock,
published by the American Association of Nurserymen.
   (E)   A stand of grass or mulch cover shall be established within 45 days
upon any area where soil has been disturbed though grading. This 45 day period
shall begin upon the first day of grading. A stand of grass shall be considered
established when grass blades 3 inches tall or taller cover 80% or more of the
bare earth. Mulch cover shall be considered sufficient when a layer of organic
material is placed on 80% of the exposed surface area to a depth of 2 inches or
more.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.15 STREET TREE PLANTINGS.
   A continuous perimeter planting strip, located on private or government/
institutional property abutting the public right-of-way, with a minimum width
of 8 feet, shall be required.
   (A)   Wherever planting strips are free of overhead lines they shall be
planted with large maturing trees, 1 such tree to be planted not more than 30
feet apart and not less than 15 feet apart. In cases where overhead utility
lines exist, a small maturing tree shall be planted. If small maturing trees
are planted 1 such tree shall be planted not more than 20 feet apart and not
less than 8 feet apart. Each tree shall have a minimum two-inch caliper when
planted. The planting strip for street trees shall be a minimum width of 8
feet.
   (B)   The public property in the right-of-way may not be used to fulfill
requirements for minimum width or area.
   (C)   Planting materials must be selected from the approved plant materials
list of the Town of Wilkesboro Tree Maintenance and Planting Specification
Manual. Shrubs, ground covers and other vegetative plantings may be included in
landscaped buffer strips but are not required.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.16 BUFFERYARDS BETWEEN NON-COMPATIBLE ZONING.
   Certain land uses may create an adverse impact when developed adjacent to
other less intensive land uses. Bufferyards with a screen shall be required
between a proposed development and a dissimilar existing land use or zoning
designation to provide a transition between them. A bufferyard is a strip of
land together with some form of screening such as existing vegetation, planted
vegetation, a landscaped earthen berm, a fence, a wall, or a combination of the
above.
   (A)   Landscaped bufferyards must be a minimum width of fifteen feet. Total
number of plants required for every 100 linear shall equal or exceed 18. The
composition of these required plants shall be 6 evergreen trees, 2 large
deciduous trees, 2 small deciduous trees, 6 evergreen shrubs and 2 deciduous
shrubs.
   (B)   Grade changes in areas to be included in the landscaped bufferyards
shall not exceed 5% from the pre-development profile, except wherein an earthen
berm is incorporated as part of the landscaped area.
   (C)   All dumpsters, loading docks, or utility structures visible from a
public street or adjacent property line shall be screened unless already
screened by an intervening building or bufferyard. Landscaping shall not
interfere with the access and operation of any such structure or facility. All
unenclosed outdoor storage areas greater than 25 square feet shall also be
screened from adjacent properties and streets. Screen types shall include 1 of
the following:
      (1)   A continuous hedge of evergreen and/or densely twigged deciduous
shrubs;
      (2)   A row of evergreen trees planted no more than 8 feet apart; or
      (3)   A fence or wall with a minimum height of 6 feet.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.17 PARKING LOT PLANTINGS.
   (A)   Interior parking areas shall be landscaped in addition to the required
landscaped buffer strip. Trees must be provided in each parking lot at a
minimum average density of 1 shade tree (2-inch caliper minimum) for each 15
parking spaces provided, or any fraction thereof. In the case of mini
warehouses, such parking spaces shall be determined by the number of parallel
parking spaces contained in the required loading and unloading lanes.
   (B)   The minimum area to be set aside per tree planted is 140 square feet.
The minimum width for any 1 dimension of a parking lot planting space shall be
8 feet.
   (C)   Additionally, interior parking lot landscaping shall include a minimum
area equal to 6.5% of the total project area as depicted in the landscape plan.
   (D)   Interior landscaped area for individual trees may be reduced by 10%
when required plantings are grouped together. Example: minimum square footage
for 1 tree planted singularly: 140 square feet; minimum square footage for 2
trees planted together: 252 square feet (140 X 2 - 28 = 252). A maximum of 25%
of the trees planted in compliance with this chapter may be grouped as
specified above. This credit will not apply to parking lots with less than 8
trees required.
   (E)   Interior landscaped area may be reduced by thirty percent on any
portion of parking lot where water pervious surface material, such as, gravel,
brick pavers, porous concrete or fractured slate is used.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.18 CREDIT FOR EXISTING VEGETATION.
   (A)   Existing preserved trees and shrubs may be credited towards required
buffer trees, street trees, and parking lot trees.
   (B)   (1)   Credits and other incentives to preserve vegetation. Preserved
trees may be credited at the rate of:
         2"-6" caliper tree = 1 tree
         7"-12" caliper tree = 2 trees
         13"-18" caliper tree = 3 trees
         19"-24 " caliper tree = 5 trees
         25" + caliper tree = 6 trees
      (2)   In order to receive credit, preserved vegetation must be in good
health and condition. Trees designated to be preserved must be indicated on the
landscape plan.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.19 ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE.
   Modifications for alternative compliance with the requirement of this
chapter may be issued by the Tree Board. The petitioner must show due cause why
said requirements can not be met. Any alternative compliance measures agreed to
by the Tree Board must meet with the intention of this chapter and must equal
or exceed in beneficial effect those of the standard requirements.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.20 REMOVAL OF HISTORIC TREES.
   Please Refer to the Town of Wilkesboro Historic Preservation Commission
Design Guidelines, Section II, Project Review and Approval.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.21 ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
notified by the Public Works Director of the specific violation by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery. The notice
shall set forth the nature of the violation, the measures required to comply
with this chapter, if compliance is at all practicable, and a reasonable time
period within which compliance must be had.
   (B)   If any aggrieved person disagrees with a decision of the Public Works
Director, such person may request a hearing within 10 working days of receipt
of the violation. The request must be in writing and directed to the Tree
Board's secretary. The secretary shall immediately assemble an appeals board
from among the membership of the Tree Board. The chairperson of the Town of
Wilkesboro Tree Board shall always serve on the appeals board as the
chairperson and shall not vote except to cast the deciding vote in case of a
tie. The members to sit on the board shall be selected on a rotating basis. The
owner shall have the right to be represented by counsel, examine and cross-
examine witnesses at said hearing. The town attorney shall serve as the appeals
board's legal advisor during said hearing. The appeals board shall render its
written decision within 30 days after the hearing.
   (C)   The appeals board may modify, amend or revise the decision appealed.
The decision of the appeals board shall be served upon the appealing party by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery.
   (D)   If any aggrieved party is dissatisfied with the decision of the
appeals board, an appeal may be taken to the Wilkes County Superior Court.
Notice of the appeal must be filed within 10 working days of receipt of the
appeals board's decision. The parties may stipulate that the appeal to the
Wilkes County Superior Court shall be a review of the record only. In the
absence of a mutual stipulation, the review shall be de novo.
   (E)   Any aggrieved party may request an injunction to preserve the status
quo during the pending of any appeal in accordance with applicable North
Carolina law.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty. The amount of the civil penalty
shall be $100 except as hereinafter provided. Each day of a continuing
violation shall constitute a separate violation. The appeals board shall
determine and assess the civil penalty, if any, at the time of the appeals
hearing, if one is requested. In the absence of an appeal, the Public Works
Director shall submit a request to the chairperson of the appeals board who
shall assemble the appeals board and assess the civil penalty with supporting
documentation upon prior notice to the violating party of the date and time of
the appeals board hearing. At least 10 days notice shall be given to the
violating party of the date, time and location whereby the appeals board will
consider the request to assess a civil penalty. In determining the amount of
the civil penalty, the appeals board shall take into consideration the amount
of money that the violator would be required to spend in order to be in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the amount of money saved by
the violator in violating the ordinance, the cost of replacement of any removed
tree, shrubbery or regulated tree. In determining the specific amount of the
civil penalty for damage or destruction to regulated trees, the appeals board
shall use the standard tree evaluation formula provided by the International
Society of Arboriculture, as it may be amended from time to time. The standard
tree evaluation formula is made a part of this chapter and adopted herein by
reference. A maximum fine of $5,000 is hereby set for that portion of the civil
penalty dealing with replacement cost of an individual tree. The appeals board
shall have no discretion to vary the cost figures set forth in the formula. The
appeals board may however, recommend that the amount of the civil penalty be
modified as part of a negotiated settlement with the city. Upon failure of the
violator to pay the assessed penalty or reach an equitable settlement within 30
days, an action in the nature of debt in the name of the city in the
appropriate division of the general courts of justice may be instituted by the
city attorney for recovery of a debt.
   (B)   Criminal penalty. A violation of this chapter subjects the offender to
a civil penalty, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-175, and does
not subject the offender to the criminal penalty provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Injunctive relief. Whenever there exists reasonable cause to believe
that any person is violating this chapter or any standards adopted pursuant to
this chapter or any term, condition or provision of an approved permit, the
city may, either before or after the institution of any other action or
proceeding authorized by this chapter, institute a civil action in the name of
the town for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and an order of abatement
demanding the violator to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 97: CEMETERIES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions; application
   
97.02   Management of cemeteries
   
97.03   Burials
   
97.04   Disruptive activity prohibited
   
97.05   Hours of operation
   
97.06   Trees, plantings and landscaping
   
97.07   Grave liners
   
97.08   Marking new graves
   
97.09   Cemetery map required
   
97.10   Purchase of burial rights
   
97.11   Burial rights
   
97.12   Mausoleums, monuments and markers
   
97.13   Coping, curbing and the like
   
97.14   Approval from Cemetery Administrator
 
   
97.99   Penalties and remedies
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS; APPLICATION.
    (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. Any person(s) designated by the Board of Commissioners to
perform the functions and exercise the responsibilities assigned by this
chapter to the ADMINISTRATOR.
       LOT.  A plot of ground within the town cemetery, having dimensions of 4
feet by 12 feet or 4 feet by 10 feet, and intended as a place of interment for
1 person.
       MARKER.  A plaque installed at ground level at the site of a grave to
indicate the name, date of birth and date of death of the person buried there.
       MAUSOLEUM. A structure or building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the entombment of remains of a deceased person.
       MONUMENT.  A memorial stone or other structure erected at a gravesite in
remembrance of the dead.
   (B)   The following sections apply to all cemeteries within the town: §§
97.03(A),
97.04(A),
97.04(B) and
97.04(C). The remaining sections of this chapter apply only to cemeteries owned
or operated by the town.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 97.02 MANAGEMENT OF CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The power of decision-making shall rest in the Cemetery Committee.
This Board shall be comprised of 4 Wilkesboro citizens and 1 Town Commissioner.
The Town Manager and the Town Attorney shall be ex officio members of the
Committee and shall be present at each meeting. The Cemetery Administrator
shall be present at each meeting as well and must enact decisions made by the
Cemetery Committee.
   (B)   The term of office for Committee members will be 4 years as appointed
by the Board of Commissioners. There shall be no term limits.
   (C)   Nominations will be made each year for Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary.
   (D)   The Cemetery Committee will meet quarterly or on-call basis, with day
meetings on the second Tuesday of each quarter at 2:00 p.m. Meetings will be
held on the second Tuesday of January, April, July and October.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 97.03 BURIALS.
    (A)   No person may bury or cause to be buried the body of any deceased
person within the town limits in any place other than a church cemetery or a
cemetery operated by a governmental entity or a private cemetery licensed or
specifically exempted from licensing according to the North Carolina Cemetery
Act (G.S. Article 9 Chapter 65).
   (B)   One interment shall be made per grave, except that of a mother and
infant child, or 2 infant children may be placed in a singular space.
   (C)   Multiple burials in a single grave shall be limited to the interment
of family members in 1 burial vault with no more than 2 cremation urns.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 DISRUPTIVE ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person may drive any motor vehicle of any kind in any
cemetery except upon the main roads and avenues provided therein for vehicular
traffic.
       (2)   No person may drive any motor vehicle or park any motor vehicle in
any cemetery unless in attendance at burial services or otherwise engaged in
activities consistent with the use of a cemetery as a cemetery.
       (3)   No person may take any dog, horse or other animal into any
cemetery or allow any animal to run at large therein.
       (4)   No person may intentionally disrupt any funeral services or
disturb the quiet and good order of any cemetery by extremely loud or
boisterous conduct, except in the case of military funerals and veterans or
military commemorative exercises, no person may carry or discharge firearms in
any cemetery.
       (5)   No person may post or attach any bills, posters, placards,
pictures or other form of political or commercial advertising within the
cemetery or on the inside or outside of any wall or fence enclosing any
cemetery.
    (B)   As provided in G.S. § 14-148(c) if any person shall willfully commit
any of the acts set forth in the following divisions, he or she shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days, or both, in the discretion of the court:
       (1)   Throwing, placing or putting any refuse, garbage, trash or
articles of similar nature in or on a public or private cemetery where human
bodies are interred;
       (2)   Destroying, removing, breaking, damaging, overturning or polluting
any flower, plant, shrub or ornament located in any public or private cemetery
where human bodies are interred without the express consent of the person in
charge of the cemetery; or
       (3)   Provided nothing contained in this section shall preclude
operators of cemeteries from exercising all the powers reserved to them in
their respective rules and regulations relating to the care of cemeteries.
   (C)   As provided in G.S. § 14-148, if any person shall unlawfully and on
purpose remove from its place any monument of marble, stone, brass, wood or
other material erected for the purpose of designating the spot where any dead
body is interred, or for the purpose of preserving and perpetuating the memory,
name, fame, birth, age or death of any person, whether situated in or out of
the common burying ground, or shall unlawfully and on purpose break or deface a
monument or alter the letters, marks or inscription thereof, he or she shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Provided that nothing contained in this section shall
preclude operators of public or private cemeteries from exercising all the
powers reserved to them in their respective rules and regulations relating to
the use and care of cemeteries.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
  § 97.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The town cemetery shall remain open to the public throughout the year
from sunrise until sunset.
   (B)   No person may enter the town cemetery at any time other than the hours
of operation established by division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
  § 97.06 TREES, PLANTINGS AND LANDSCAPING.
    (A)   No person may plant, prune or remove any tree, shrub, flower, grass
or other plant of any kind except with the consent of and in accordance with
the directions of the Cemetery Administrator.
    (B)   The Cemetery Administrator may enter any lot and remove or trim any
tree, shrub or other plant that encroaches upon any other lot or any walkway,
driveway or other part of the cemetery.
    (C)   The Cemetery Administrator may remove from the cemetery all floral
designs, flowers, weeds or plants of any kind from the cemetery as soon as they
deteriorate or otherwise become unsightly.
    (D)   Artificial flowers used in floral decorations may be used in the
cemetery but a limit of 2 months is established as a reasonable period of use
of decorations. After 2 months arrangements will be removed and disposed of by
the Cemetery Administrator. Flowers and items left on grave sites:
      (1)   Must be placed near monument to facilitate mowing;
      (2)   Groundskeeper may dispose of wilted flowers;
      (3)   Flowers shall be placed no earlier than 10 days prior to, and must
be removed 14 days after Memorial Day; and
      (4)   Christmas wreaths shall be allowed only for the months of December
and January.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
  § 97.07 GRAVE LINERS.
   Concrete, steel or fiberglass grave liners shall be used for all interments
in any town-regulated cemetery. This requirement shall not be waived under any
circumstances.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 97.08 MARKING NEW GRAVES.
    (A)   Placement of monuments, markers or footstones for identification of
grave sites shall be the responsibility of the owners and shall be accomplished
within 6 months from the time of burial. Temporary markers may be removed by
the town when they have outlived their usefulness.
   (B)   No person shall erect or cause to be erected any coping, border or
other delineation of a grave space unless the materials used to achieve an
effect are flush with the surface or ground that they are placed upon. Any
border or coping hereafter erected shall be subject to removal by the town if
not installed according to the above requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 97.09 CEMETERY MAP REQUIRED.
   (A)   There shall be maintained in the Town Clerk’s office an official
cemetery map which shall depict, as accurately as possible, the boundaries of
the town cemetery and the location and dimension of all lots within the
cemetery.
    (B)   Burial rights in all lots shall be sold in reference to the official
cemetery map.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
  § 97.10 PURCHASE OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
    (A)   The town shall sell burial rights in cemetery lots in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and the schedule of fees adopted and revised
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners, a copy of which schedule shall
be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
    (B)   A surveying and locating fee of $100 must be paid in full at the time
of internment.
   (C)   A deed or certificate of burial right shall be issued to the person
who purchases a burial right. The deed or certificate shall identify the
purchaser and the specific lot or lots to which the deed or certificate
applies.
   (D)   A discounted rate of 20% shall be applied to the purchase of burial
rights for any citizen of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (E)   Proof of purchase shall be required prior to any burial. Proper proof
shall be a copy of the deed issued by the town.
   (F)   Effective with the adoption of this chapter the town shall record all
newly issued deeds for cemetery lots. The recording fee shall be noted in the
town’s schedule of fees and paid prior to the issuance of the deed.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
  § 97.11 BURIAL RIGHTS.
    (A)   The deed or certificate of burial right entitles the owner thereof
(i.e., the purchaser) to use the designated lots as a place of burial, subject
to the terms and conditions of this chapter and subject to the town’s authority
to operate, regulate, control and abandon cemeteries. Upon the death of the
owner of a deed or certificate of burial right, all rights evidenced by the
deed or certificate shall pass to the owner’s heirs, legatees or devisees in
the same manner as other interests in personal property.
     (B)   No person may purchase or otherwise acquire any burial right for the
purpose of sale or exchange. No person may sell or exchange any burial right
for a profit or gain.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.12 MAUSOLEUMS, MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
    (A)   No mausoleums may be placed or located within a town cemetery after
the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Monuments may be placed only in areas so designated on the town
cemetery plat of record. The designated area may be enlarged, reduced or
eliminated in accordance with the provisions for the amendment of town
ordinances.
   (C)   (1)   Individual lots shall be marked with a bronze or stone marker
placed flush with the ground on an apron.
      (2)   Tombstones and markers must have a 4 to 6-inch base border to
facilitate mowing.
      (3)   No gravel or decorative rock is allowed around grave markers.
      (4)   Tombstones and markers must be set on foundations and set so tops
are level with the sod and must be made of bronze, granite, marble or other
suitable material approved by the Cemetery Administrator.
      (5)   Tombstones and markers should be installed under the supervision of
the Cemetery Administrator.
      (6)   No grave marker or ledger shall be placed on top of any grave in
which interment was not made in a vault made of metal, cement or other material
that will not decay.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.13 COPING, CURBING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or construct any coping,
curbing, border or corner post on any lot or grave in a town cemetery unless
the coping, curbing, border or corner post is flush with the surface of the
adjacent ground.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any wire arbors, fencing
or any sign.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.14 APPROVAL FROM CEMETERY ADMINISTRATOR.
   To avoid overlapping plots, the town Cemetery Administrator must approve of
all monuments and markers before their being put into place.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
  § 97.99 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
    (A)   A violation of any provisions in this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
    (B)   Violations shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of
$100. If a person fails to pay this penalty within 10 days after being cited
for a violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil
action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
    (D)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute separate a offense.
    (E)   The town shall have the right to apply any monetary relief acquired
towards remedying the violation as noted in the citation.
   (F)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any 1 or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 98: UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
Section
   
98.01   Findings
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Restrictions on the use of unmanned aircraft systems
§ 98.01 FINDINGS.
   The Committee on Unmanned Aircrafts systems of the Legislative Research
Commission of the North Carolina General Assembly has found that unmanned
aircraft systems have the potential to be a valuable tool in many areas,
including law enforcement, public safety, agriculture and business.
Additionally, the development and manufacture of unmanned aircraft systems
could prospectively bring industry and jobs to the state. The Committee also
recognizes the possibility for inappropriate and criminal usage of unmanned
aircraft systems, and finds that there should be some guidance and regulation
governing the lawful operation of unmanned aircrafts systems.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-1-2019)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply, unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MODEL AIRCRAFT.  An unmanned aircraft, limited to not more than ten pounds,
flown within visual line of sight of the person operating the aircraft for
recreational and hobby purposes only.
   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.  An aircraft that is operated without the possibility of
human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM. An unmanned aircraft and associated elements,
including communication links and components that control the unmanned aircraft
that are required for the pilot in command to operate safely and efficiently in
the national airspace system.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-1-2019)
§ 98.03  RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an unmanned aircraft system on the Wilkes
Community College campus or any off-site campgrounds for the duration of the
MerleFest Music Festival without the express and written consent of the town.
This restriction shall not apply to the operations of a model aircraft as
defined in §
98.02.
   (B)   From time to time, the Town Council may by resolution restrict
operations of unmanned aircraft systems within the corporate limits.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-1-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
111.   SALESPERSONS AND PEDDLERS
         
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
113.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
         
114.   SHORT-TERM LEASE/RENTAL VEHICLES
         
115.   CABLE TELEVISION
         
116.   ALARM SYSTEMS
         
117.   INSTALLATION OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT
         
118.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of chapter
Levy
   
110.15   Levy of tax
   
110.16   Who must pay tax
   
110.17   Period of license; due date
   
110.18   Proration of tax
   
110.19   Refunds
   
110.20   Separate businesses
   
110.21   Computation of tax based on gross receipts
   
110.22   Exemptions
Licenses
   
110.35   Application
   
110.36   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
110.37   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference
   
110.38   Tax collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
110.39   Amount of tax disputed
   
110.40   Revocation
   
110.41   Form and contents of license
   
110.42   Assignments
   
110.43   Changes in the business conducted by licensee during the tax year
   
110.44   Tax collector to furnish duplicates
   
110.45   Record of conferences
   
110.46   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
   
110.47   Duty to determine whether tax due
   
110.48   Tax collector to investigate
   
110.49   Duty to keep books
   
110.50   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.51   Duty to post license
   
110.52   Notice of deficiency
   
110.53   Request for a conference
   
110.54   Deficiency to become final
   
110.55   Conference held
   
110.56   Collection of deficiency
   
110.57   Enforcement of chapter
 
Editor’s Note:
   The License Ordinance, as herein defined, is omitted from this code due to
the frequency of changes therein; but all ordinances which constitute the
License Ordinance have been saved from repeal and are filed, together, in the
office of the Town Clerk and maintained by him or her in current status at all
times. The License Ordinance is available for inspection and use during all
regular business hours.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to levy an annual license tax on trades, businesses and
the like, see G.S. § 160A-194
   Collection of town licenses generally, see G.S. § 105-33
   State tax on businesses and the like, see G.S. §§ 105-33 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. includes each trade, occupation, profession, business, and
franchise taxed under this ordinance.
      A business is SEASONAL in nature when it is conducted for profit six
months out of the year or less.
   PERSON. includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm, or other legal entity.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER .
   This chapter is enacted for revenue purposes only. Therefore, it should be
construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its terms. In
addition issuance of a license in accordance with this chapter does not excuse
a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
chapter does not prevent the Town of Wilkesboro from imposing license taxes on
additional businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of any license
tax or from regulating any business taxed.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
LEVY
§ 110.15 LEVY OF TAX.
   An annual privilege license tax is hereby levied on each business conducted
within this city listed in sections A through D of this chapter in the amount
set forth in those sections.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.16 WHO MUST PAY TAX.
   Each person who conducts a business within the Town of Wilkesboro is subject
to this chapter. A person “conducts business” when he or she engages in one act
of business taxed under this chapter. He or she conducts the business “within
the city” if he or she maintains a business location within the city; or if,
either personally or through agents, he or she:
   (A)   Solicits business within the city limits; or
   (B)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the Town of Wilkesboro
limits.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.17 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual licenses. Unless the section of this chapter levying the
privilege license tax applicable to a particular business provides otherwise, a
license issued in accordance with this chapter is good for the 12 month period
beginning May 1 and ending April 30. The tax is due on May 1 of each year.
However, if a person begins a business after May 1 of a year, the tax for that
year is due before the business is begun.
   (B)   Licenses for periods shorter than one year. If the section of this
chapter levying the privilege license tax applicable to a particular business
so provides, a license may be issued for a period of one day, one week, or some
comparable period of less than a full license year. A person may not commence a
business conducted within the Town of Wiikesboro and taxed under such a
provision until the privilege license tax due is paid and may not continue such
a business beyond the period for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.18 PRORATION OF TAX.
   If a business is begun after November 1 and before May 1, the amount of tax
due is half the amount otherwise due. If a business is seasonal in nature and
if the amount of tax is not based on gross receipts, the amount of tax due is
half the amount otherwise due.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.19 REFUNDS.
   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his or her business during the
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.20 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate license is required and a separate privilege license tax must be
paid for each place of business unless two or more places of business under
common ownership are contiguous to each other, communicate directly with and
open into each other, and are operated as a unit. In addition a separate
privilege license tax must be paid for each business taxable under this chapter
conducted by the taxpayer at any one location; however, the tax collector may
issue a single license for all taxable business conducted at one location by a
single taxpayer.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.21 COMPUTATION OF TAX BASED ON GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter levies a privilege license tax computed on the
basis of gross receipts, “gross receipts” means the amount reported as gross
receipts on a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts for the most recently
completed tax year. The tax payer will be responsible for the separation of
gross receipts for each type of business license issued.
   (B)   (1)   If a business has not been in operation long enough for the
information required in division (A) of this section to be available, the tax
collector shall estimate gross receipts for the business on the basis of gross
receipts of comparable businesses, or any other information that the tax
collector considers useful.
      (2)   On or before the May 31 immediately after the license year, each
licensee who paid the tax for the past license year based on estimated gross
receipts shall submit to the tax collector a sworn final report showing the
amount of gross receipts, for the license year. If the amount shown is more
than estimated gross receipts the licensee shall pay the amount of additional
tax that would have been due had the estimate been accurate. If the amount
shown is less than estimated gross receipts, the Town of Wilkesboro shall apply
a credit toward current license fees for the difference between the actual tax
paid and the amount of tax that would have been due had the estimate been
accurate.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt from the payment of a privilege license tax levied by
this chapter.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A person, who operates a business for a
religious, educational, charitable, or fraternal purpose, when the entire gross
income of the business is used for such a purpose, is exempt from paying any
privilege license tax levied by this chapter. The 501C3 (non-profit) forms must
be presented to the tax collector in order to receive this exemption.
   (C)   Blind persons and members of the armed forces and merchant marine.
Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States armed forces or the
merchant marine are exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
chapter to the extent provided by G.S. § 105-249 and G.S. § 105-249.1.
   (D)   Must obtain license. A person exempt from paying a privilege license
tax levied by this chapter shall nevertheless obtain a license from the tax
collector. The license shall state that the licensee is exempt from paying the
privilege license tax.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
LICENSES
§ 110.35 APPLICATION.
   A person shall apply to the tax collector for each license required by this
chapter no less than thirty days before the date the tax is due. The
application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the tax collector,
shall contain:
   (A)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an individual,
a partnership, a corporation, or some other entity;
   (B)   The nature of the business;
   (C)   Where the business is conducted;
   (D)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as required
by this chapter;
   (E)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial number, preferably a
copy of the state license the applicant currently holds; and
   (F)   Any other information the tax collector determines to be necessary to
compute the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.36 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The tax collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant must first obtain zoning compliance and fire inspection,
if applicable;
   (B)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license; or
   (C)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.37 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
110.36, the tax collector shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and shall
not issue the license. At the applicant’s request, the tax collector shall, in
accordance with §§
110.46, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license. The applicant may, within ten days after the day the statement is
received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the request the
applicant shall specify why the application for a license should not be
refused. The tax collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time.
   (B)   If the collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may reapply
for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the application
was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license in compliance with §
110.38.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.38 TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector believes
that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
110.36, the tax collector shall determine the amount of tax due and notify the
applicant of that amount. The tax collector shall not issue a license until the
tax is paid.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.39 AMOUNT OF TAX DISPUTED.
   If disputes arise over the amount the tax collector determines to be due,
the applicant may either refuse to pay and request a conference with the tax
collector to discuss the determination, or pay the amount and request a
conference to discuss the right to a refund. If a conference is requested, the
tax collector shall arrange it within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.40 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The tax collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in §
110.36. Before revoking a license, the tax collector shall give the licensee
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with §
110.46. The licensee may within ten days after the day on which notice is
served request a conference with the tax collector in writing. The request
shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The tax
collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the tax collector shall revoke the license.
If the licensee requests a conference, the tax collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the tax collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license in accordance with §
110.38.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.41 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature of
the business licensed, the period for which the license is issued, and the
amount of tax paid. The tax collector shall keep a copy of each license issued.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.42 ASSIGNMENTS.
   A license may be assigned if (1) a business licensed under this chapter and
carried on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person, and (2) the
purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place. Such a change
shall be reported to the tax collector in accordance with §
110.43. Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a personal
privilege and is not assignable.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.43 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING THE TAX YEAR.
   A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in the information contained
in the license application to the tax collector within ten days after the
change occurs. If information shown on the license itself is affected, the
licensee or assignee shall surrender the license to the tax collector when
reporting the change.
   (A)   Changes affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
110.36 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (B)   Changes not affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons
for revoking the license under §
110.36 and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change
upon payment of a fee of $5.
   (C)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under §
110.36, the tax collector shall refuse to reissue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with §
110.18.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.44 TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the tax
collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of $1 per copy.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.45 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The tax collector shall maintain for 3 years a record of each conference
held in accordance with this chapter. The record shall contain the applicant’s
or licensee’s name, the date of the conference, and a brief statement of the
issues discussed and the result reached. After 3 years, the tax collector shall
dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.46 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the tax collector to give written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, the tax collector may do so in one of
3 ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail and
returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in
the license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.47 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX DUE.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this chapter and if so, whether that tax has been paid
for the current year.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.48 TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the tax collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the city in violation of this chapter, the tax collector shall
conduct an investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.49 DUTY TO KEEP BOOKS.
   Each person who conducts a business taxed under this chapter shall keep all
records and books necessary to compute the tax liability. If a person fails to
keep books and records as required, the tax collector shall make a
determination of that person’s tax liability from the information available.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.50 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in the city shall permit the tax collector
to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there and to examine the books and records to
determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.51 DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the place of
business licensed. If the licensee has no regular place of business, the
license must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper city
officials.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.52 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   If the tax collector determines that a person has not paid the full amount
of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or for a
prior license year, the tax collector shall give the person written notice of
the deficiency, in accordance with §
110.46. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due; the
section of this chapter upon which the tax is based; the amount of tax paid;
any interest due; the balance owed; the manner and time period in which the
person may respond to the notice of the deficiency; and the consequences of
failing to respond as specified.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.53 REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   The person may, within 10 days after the day on which notice is served,
request a conference in writing. The request shall specify the person’s
objections to the notice of deficiency. By way of illustration but not
limitation, a person who receives notice of a deficiency may object on the
following grounds:
   (A)   That the tax due has already been paid;
   (B)   That the tax collector miscalculated the amount of tax due;
   (C)   That the tax collector based his calculation on incorrect or
insufficient information concerning either the nature or the amount of business
conducted; or
   (D)   That the tax collector based the determination on an erroneous
interpretation of a section of this chapter that establishes a category of
business subject to a particular tax.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.54 DEFICIENCY TO BECOME FINAL.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
110.53, the deficiency becomes final and the tax collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.55 CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the tax collector shall not proceed
to collect the deficiency until hearing the taxpayer’s objections and
determining that the deficiency should become final. The tax collector shall
maintain a record of each conference held for three years in accordance with §
110.53. The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference, a brief statement of the issues discussed, and the results of the
discussion. After three years, the tax collector shall dispose of the record in
compliance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.56 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The tax collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
110.57(A);
      (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
110.57(B); or
      (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207.
   (B)   Any person who continues to conduct a business taxed under this
chapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax of 5% every
30 days as imposed by G.S. § 105-109.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 110.57 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the Town of Wilkesboro
without having paid the privilege license tax imposed by this chapter, or
without a valid license issued in accordance with this chapter, or without
posting a license in compliance with §
110.51 of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 105-
109 or § 14-4. Each day that a person conducts business in violation of this
chapter is a separate offense. A fine of $50 per separate offense will apply.
Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings in accordance with this
section does not relieve a person of the liability for taxes imposed under this
chapter.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
division (A) of this section and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the
Town of Wilkesboro may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a
business in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-2-2012)
CHAPTER 111: SALESPERSONS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Peddlers of books, magazines and the like
   
111.02   Salespersons of advertising matter
   
111.03   Application for and issuance of permit
   
111.04   Permits not in lieu of any license which may be required
   
111.05   Itinerant merchants prohibited
   
111.06   Waiver
   
111.07   Definition
§ 111.01 PEDDLERS OF BOOKS, MAGAZINES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business, trade or
profession of peddler, book agent, magazine agent or salesperson traveling on
foot or by vehicle or other conveyance of any kind and going from house to
house or from person to person and soliciting patronage in his or her
respective line of business, to peddle his or her wares, publications or other
merchandise of whatsoever kind or description upon the streets of the town or
in any public place within the corporate limits of the town without first
procuring a permit from the Board of Commissioners to engage in the business.
(Prior Code, § 10-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Licensing peddlers, see G.S. § 66-252
   Payment of license taxes to municipal tax collectors, see G.S. § 105-33
§ 111.02 SALESPERSONS OF ADVERTISING MATTER.
   Any person selling or offering for sale advertising space, advertising
novelties or advertising devices shall, before engaging in business in the
town, procure from the Board of Commissioners a permit to do so; provided that
this section shall not apply to the sale of advertising space in any daily,
weekly, semiweekly or monthly newspapers of recognized character or in
nationally known magazines published by business institutions and issued with
regularity at least 12 times a year, or on buses, airplanes, cabs, billboards,
posters, wall signs, motion picture screens, radio or in the city or town and
state directories and telephone directories, nor to the sale of calendars and
novelties to be given away by the purchaser to advertise his or her own
business.
(Prior Code, § 10-12)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to engage in a business, trade or profession for which a
town permit is required by this chapter shall file with the Board of
Commissioners an application for a permit, which application shall state the
name of the applicant, the nature of his or her business and any other
reasonable information which may be requested by the Board, and the Board shall
not issue a permit, as provided herein, to any person unless the Board shall be
satisfied as to the legality of the wares, devices, publications or other
merchandise offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 10-13)
§ 111.04 PERMITS NOT IN LIEU OF ANY LICENSE WHICH MAY BE REQUIRED.
   Permits required by this chapter shal1 be in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any license or license tax which may be imposed in the License Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-14)
§ 111.05 ITINERANT MERCHANTS PROHIBITED.
   Itinerant merchants who operate for profit are hereby prohibited from any
business activities within the corporate limits of the Town of Wilkesboro.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2006)
§ 111.06 WAIVER.
   All provisions of
Chapter 111 are hereby waived on the grounds or premises of town-sanctioned
festivals or events.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 111.07 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person or persons, firm or corporation, either
principal or agent, employer or employee who engages in a temporary business in
the city by selling or offering for sale goods, wares, merchandise or things or
articles of value for a period of less than 60 days and who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, hires, leases or occupies any room, building,
structure or stand on any real property or on or adjoining any street or public
place in the city. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be
relieved from the provisions of this chapter by reason of associating
temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or  auctioneer, or by
reason of conducting such temporary business in connection with or as a part of
any local business or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-12-2009)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Where alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
112.02   Alcohol; sale and consumption in public streets and parks
§ 112.01 WHERE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or serve wine, beer, whiskey
or other alcoholic beverages of any kind on the public streets or in any public
building within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 ALCOHOL; SALE AND CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC STREETS AND PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or serve wine, beer, malt
beverages, alcoholic liquor, whiskey or other alcoholic beverages of any kind
on the public streets, in any public building, or within the boundary of any
park or parking lot associated with a park within the limits of the town.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Massage and body work therapy practice
§ 113.01 MASSAGE AND BODY WORK THERAPY PRACTICE.
   Massage establishments as referred to as massage and body work therapy
practice as set forth in G.S. Article 36, §§ 90-620 et seq. shall govern
massage establishments, as referred to as massage and body work therapy
practice as set forth therein, within the town limits of the Town of Wilkesboro
effective March 3, 2003.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-3-2003)
CHAPTER 114: SHORT-TERM LEASE/RENTAL VEHICLES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Levy of tax; collection of the tax
   
114.03   Report and payment of tax
   
114.04   Taxpayer to keep records
   
114.05   Tax Collector to provide forms
   
114.06   Situs
   
114.07   Penalties and remedies
   
114.08   Administration
   
114.09   Authority and effective date
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease
or rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes and any reference to a
particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to time
amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is or would be reported as gross receipts on
a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax return filed
with the state income tax return if the state return does not separately state
gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in
GROSS RECEIPTS.
   LEASE or RENTAL. A transfer for consideration of the use, but not the
ownership, of property to another for period of time.
(G.S. § 105-164.3(17))
   LONG-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at least 365
continuous days.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(3))
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not a
long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 160A-215.1(e)(2) and 105-187.1(7))
   TAX COLLECTOR. That individual appointed by the governing body pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349 (the provisions of the municipal charter), to collect taxes on
behalf of the Town of Wilkesboro and any other person authorized to carry out
the duties and functions of that individual.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this chapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan or sport utility vehicle.
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial drivers
license.
      (3)   A trailer or semitrailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(G.S. 160A-215.1(e)(1))
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.02 LEVY OF TAX; COLLECTION OF THE TAX.
   (A)   A tax hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the
gross receipts derived from the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at
retail to the general public. This tax on gross receipts is in addition to the
privilege taxes authorized by G.S. § 160A-211.
   (B)   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental
of vehicles at retail to the general public shall collect at the time of the
lease or rental the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a
segregated account, and thereafter remit the tax to the Tax Collector in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The taxpayer shall include a
provision in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that the
percentage amount enacted by this chapter of the total lease or rental price,
excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The amount of
the tax shall be stated separately from the lease or rental and shown
separately on the taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid by the customer to
the taxpayer as trustee for an account of the Town of Wilkesboro. The taxpayer
shall be liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax
Collector and the taxpayer’s failure to charge or to collect the tax from the
customer shall not affect liability.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.03 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Taxes levied under this chapter are due and payable when a return is
required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a
return to the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax Collector. A
return must be signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent. Returns of
taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each month on or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues. As provided in
G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a public record and
information contained in a return may be disclosed only in accordance
therewith.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.04 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by the taxpayer in the conduct of business and other books or accounts
as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which the taxpayer
is liable under the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the
taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of 3 years all records of gross
receipts and other books and accounts described. All records, books and
accounts herein described shall be open for examination at all reasonable hours
during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.05 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare, print and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the Town of Wilkesboro
forms and instructions for filing returns to ensure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time and in
the manner provided.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.06 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer takes delivery
of the vehicle.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(b)) (Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.07 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable Subchapter
VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax) of Chapter 105 of the General
Statutes, as contained in Article 5 and Article 9, Subchapter 1, Chapter 105
thereof, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax authorized to be levied
and collected under this chapter to the extent that the same are not
inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The governing body of the Town of
Wilkesboro may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may exercise in
collecting sales and use tax.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and collection of the taxes
herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as the sales
and use tax as provided in G.S. Article 5, Chapter 105, Subchapter 1.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(d))
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
§ 114.09 AUTHORITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-
215.1.
   (B)   This chapter and the taxes thereby levied and imposed shall become
effective July 1, 2000.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2000)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Statement of intent and purpose
   
115.002   Short title
   
115.003   Definitions
Franchise Requirements
   
115.015   Franchise required
   
115.016   Federal, state and town jurisdiction
   
115.017   Rights reserved to grantor
   
115.018   Franchise agreement and renewal; fees
   
115.019   Initial franchise applications; consideration
   
115.020   Grant of additional franchise and competing service
   
115.021   Permits for non-franchised entities
   
115.022   Review for competition
Design Provisions
   
115.035   System design; upgrades
   
115.036   Drops to public buildings
   
115.037   Use of grantee facilities
   
115.038   Non-discriminatory access to cable system
Access Channels; Technical Standards and Customer Service Practices
   
115.050   Institutional network; access channels
   
115.051   General technical standards and customer service practices
   
115.052   Books and records available to grantor
   
115.053   Reports required
   
115.054   Test and compliance procedure
   
115.055   Emergency requirements
   
115.056   Programming decisions
   
115.057   Cable system office hours and telephone availability
   
115.058   Parental control
   
115.059   Periodic subscriber survey
   
115.060   Installations exceeding standard installation
   
115.061   Service area and line extension policy
   
115.062   Town monitoring
   
115.063   Access to inside wiring
Construction Standards
   
115.075   Right-of-way construction
   
115.076   Compliance with laws
   
115.077   Minimum interference
   
115.078   Repair of property
   
115.079   Erection of poles
   
115.080   Reservations of street rights
   
115.081   Underground installation
   
115.082   Conduit
   
115.083   Clearing poles and cables
   
115.084   Moving facilities
   
115.085   Work performed by others
   
115.086   Relief from liability
General Financial and Insurance Provisions
   
115.100   Franchise fee
   
115.101   Performance bond
   
115.102   Penalties procedure
   
115.103   Bonds, indemnification and insurance
Revocation and Foreclosure; Receivership and Abandonment
   
115.115   Grounds for revocation
   
115.116   Procedure
   
115.117   Foreclosure
   
115.118   Receivership
Purchase of System; Sale or Transfer
   
115.130   Upon termination of franchise term or revocation of franchise
   
115.131   Sale or transfer of franchise
Rights of Individuals Protected
   
115.145   Discriminatory practices prohibited
   
115.146   Subscriber privacy
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
115.160   Rate regulation
   
115.161   Rights reserved to grantor
   
115.162   Non-enforcement by the town
   
115.163   Governing law and choice of forum
   
115.164   Severability
   
115.165   Publication of notices
   
115.166   System construction capabilities and schedule
   
Appendix A:   Customer service standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.001 STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina, pursuant to applicable federal
and state law, is authorized to grant 1 or more nonexclusive franchises to
construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct cable systems within the
incorporated areas of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro finds that cable
service has become an integral part of its citizens’ lives, and that evolving
cable systems have the potential to play an even more dramatic role in the
future, providing great benefits and advanced capabilities to the town. At the
same time, the Board further finds that the public convenience, safety and
general welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers that are
vested in the town or those persons as the town designates.
   (C)   In order to ensure that the town and its residents receive state-of-
the-art cable services and capabilities as this technology further evolves, all
franchises granted pursuant to this chapter will be subject to periodic review
to keep current with changing law, technology and services. It is the intent of
this chapter to help ensure that local cable operators provide the best
possible cable service to residents of the town, and any franchises issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral
part thereof.
   (D)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide entertainment and information services to the town’s residents, and may
have the capacity to provide a variety of broadband, interactive communications
services to institutions and individuals. For these purposes, the following
goals underlie the regulations contained herein:
      (1)   Cable television services should be made available to all of the
town’s residents at the lowest reasonable cost;
      (2)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present and
reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of the
town; and
      (3)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public. Each of
the above-enumerated goals shall be sought to the maximum extent, taking into
account the costs and benefits to the residents of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (E)   The Board further finds that ongoing industry consolidation could
result in less local accountability, and that, therefore, stringent customer
service standards, including liquidated damages provisions, may be the only
practical means of ensuring compliance and approximating the costs of franchise
agreement non-compliance to the town and its residents.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as Chapter 17 Town of
Wilkesboro Master Cable Services Regulatory Ordinance, and it shall become a
part of the ordinances of the town. This chapter shall take effect and be in
force from and after its adoption for the grant of any new franchise agreement
or renewal of any franchise existing at the time of adoption. All chapters or
parts of the Town of Wilkesboro Code in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are repealed.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided over
the system.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any cable service tier that includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any Public,
Educational and Governmental Access programming required by this chapter or a
franchise agreement to be carried on the basic tier. Basic cable service as
defined herein shall be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7) (1997), and shall
include any signal of any television broadcast station that is provided by a
grantee to any subscriber, except a signal which is secondarily transmitted by
a satellite carrier beyond the local service area of the station. Additional
signals may be added to the basic tier by the grantee.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina
or its delegates.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98-549,
(codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 521-611 (1982 & Supp. V. 1987) as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No.
102-385, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-104 (1996) as
may, from time to time, be amended.
   CABLE INTERNET SERVICE. Any cable service offered by a grantee whereby
persons receive access to the internet or high-speed data information services
through the cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE.
      (1)   The 1-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other
programming service;
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of video programming or other programming service; and
      (3)   For purposes of this chapter, cable internet service shall be
considered CABLE SERVICE unless determined otherwise by state or federal law.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM.  A facility, consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service to multiple
subscribers within the franchise area, but the term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
1 or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-
of-way; or
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 201-226, except that the facility shall
be considered a cable system to the extent that facility, whether on a common
carrier basis or otherwise, is converter dial locations used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers.
   CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION. A contribution provided by a grantee as determined in
a franchise agreement that may at the town’s discretion be utilized for the
capital costs of the municipal access channel facilities, or to help defray the
costs of an I-Net.
    CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum that is
capable of carrying 1 standard video signal, in either analog or digital form.
Consistent with future changes in technology and/or applicable law, the parties
may mutually agree to a different definition in an individual franchise
agreement.
   COMPLAINT.  Any written or electronic inquiry, allegation or assertion made
by a person regarding service.
   CONTROL. The holding of legal or financial control of or over the holder of
the franchise, the service provider or system owner or operator, regardless of
whether control is direct or indirect, or is exercised or is permitted to be
exercised directly or indirectly through other persons, holdings or entities.
CONTROL shall always be deemed to rest in the hands of any person or entity
that has the right or authority to establish or change any policy or practice
of the holder of the franchise or the service provider, whether CONTROL may be
exercised directly or indirectly through other persons, holdings or entities.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device that converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and,
through the use of an appropriate channel selector, permits a subscriber to
view all authorized subscriber signals delivered at designated converter dial
locations.
   DIRECT INCREMENTAL COSTS. The costs actually incurred by grantee in meeting
an obligation under its franchise which grantee would not otherwise have
incurred in order to either operate and conduct the business of its cable
system or meet another obligation of the franchise.
   DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by a system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal including video, audio or digital signals
or any other type of data or information for either programs or other uses,
such as security alert services and the like.
   DROP. The cable or cables that connect users of the system to the
distribution system in order to receive service.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNELS.  Channels specially designated for locally
produced non-commercial educational access programming use.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date a franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise and the rules and procedures of the town.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or a designated representative.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the Town of Wilkesboro
pursuant to an initial authorization or a renewal thereof, to a person to own,
lease, construct, maintain or operate a cable system in the right-of-way within
the franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services. Any
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the town required by the
ordinances and laws of the town, including the provision of telecommunications
services;
      (2)   Any generally applicable non-discriminatory permit, agreement or
authorization required in connection with operations in the right-of-way
including, without limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or
in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by the town or a private
entity or for excavating or performing other work in or along the right-of-way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. That document which grants a franchise pursuant to this
chapter.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under
the authority of this chapter. If not otherwise specifically stated in the
franchise agreement, the franchise area shall be the entire geographic
unincorporated area within the town as it is now, or may in the future be
constituted.
   FRANCHISE FEE.  Any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the town
or other governmental entity on a grantee solely because of its status and
activities. The term FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any
tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services but not including a tax, fee or assessment that is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs that are required by a franchise agreement be
incurred by a grantee for Public Access Channels equipment and facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the award or enforcement of a
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, compliance audits, penalties or liquidated damages;
or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under Title 17 of the United States Code.
   GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non-commercial governmental access programming use.
   GRANTEE. A person who is granted a franchise or that person’s lawful
successors, transferees or assignees.
   GRANTOR. The town.
   GROSS REVENUES. Any and all revenue, whether received in the form of cash,
credits, barter, trade, property or consideration of any kind arising from,
attributable to or in any way derived by the grantee from the operation of a
grantee’s system to provide cable service, whether the revenue is received by
the grantee, its affiliates or any person in which the grantee has a financial
interest or by any other person who operates the system, directly or
indirectly. This definition is intended to reach as broadly as possible to
encompass all revenue. GROSS REVENUE includes, by way of illustration and not
limitation, amounts charged for basic service; optional premium, per-channel,
per-program services; cable programming services; audio services; launch fees;
channel guide subscriptions; installation, disconnection, reconnection and
changes-in-service; equipment sales or rentals; leased channel fees; late fees
and administrative charges of any type; consideration received from
programmers; advertising revenue and revenue from the sale of subscriber names
and addresses. To the extent that grantee receives revenue from cable services
provided to a subscriber for a fixed price that also includes non-cable
services (i.e., those services are bundled), grantee shall allocate an
appropriate portion of those revenues for inclusion in GROSS REVENUES. If the
fixed price of the bundled services is lower than the aggregate of the prices
of those services if purchased individually, then the appropriate amount of the
revenue to be allocated to each service shall be proportional to the individual
price of that service when compared to the aggregate of the individual prices
of those services when unbundled. GROSS REVENUE shall not include:
      (1)   Bad debt except to the extent that bad debts are recovered;
      (2)   The revenue of any person including, without limitation, a supplier
of programming to the grantee to the extent that the revenue is also included
in GROSS REVENUE of the grantee;
      (3)    Pass-through payments received by the grantee from third-party
programmers to purchase services from entities other than the grantee, which
services benefit only the third-party programmers and for which the grantee
neither received nor provides any consideration; or
      (4)   Any taxes on services furnished by the grantee which are imposed
directly on any subscriber by the state, the town or other governmental unit
and which are collected by the grantee on behalf of the governmental unit. A
franchise fee is not that kind of a tax. To the extent the scope of GROSS
REVENUES is limited by federal law or judicial action, the definitions herein
shall be so amended.
   HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or I-NET. Capacity, fibers or both, from both within
the primary cable network and/or separately constructed networks that are
dedicated to municipal users or other governmental and educational users as
determined by the town for 2-way, broadband, non-commercial, non-competitive,
not for profit communications. The I-Net includes all equipment and maintenance
of equipment required to make the capacity available including but not limited
to fiber, cable modems, coaxial cable and all switching, routing, transmitting
and receiving equipment necessary for the use of the I-Net as determined in the
individual franchise agreement.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK SERVICES. The provision of an I-Net by a grantee to
municipal users and other governmental and educational users as determined by
the town, pursuant to the terms of a franchise agreement for non-commercial,
non-competitive, not for profit applications including but not limited to: 2-
way dedicated voice, data, video, internet and telephony channels connecting
and interconnecting user facilities; computerized traffic control systems; GIS
systems and the interconnection of facilities serving police, fire and other
public safety systems.
   LOCKOUT DEVICE.  A mechanical or electrical accessory to a subscriber's
terminal that inhibits the video or audio portions of a certain program or
certain channel(s) provided by way of a cable system.
   NON-COMMERCIAL. Channels or programming that are operated on a not-for-
profit basis.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the community are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS
must include some evening hours at least 1 night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Any and all situations or conditions that are
ordinarily within the control of a grantee, including, but not limited to:
management or corporate decisions; employee conduct; staffing levels; special
promotions; pay-per-view events; rate increases; regular peak or seasonal
demand periods; electronic and video equipment and maintenance, repair or
upgrade of the cable system and any associated computer or software systems.
Those conditions that are not within the control of a grantee include, but are
not limited to: natural disasters; civil disturbances; power outages; telephone
network outages and severe or unusual weather conditions. A condition shall not
be deemed to be beyond the grantee’s control if committed by a corporation or
other business entity which the grantee controls.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a grantee makes available to all
subscribers generally.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, company, governmental entity or any natural person.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally produced
non-commercial public access programming use.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the town or grantee at a
location the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the address
to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent by
certified mail and postmarked not less than 7 business days prior to that day
in which the party giving notice shall commence any action which requires the
giving of notice. In computing the 7 days, holidays recognized by the town
shall be excluded.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following which have been, or are hereafter
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the town, including without limitation, the surface and space
within, above and below any real property in which the town has an interest in
law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a
trustee for the public, including, but not limited to: any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park or any other place, area,
easements, rights-of-way and similar public property and areas or real property
owned by or under the control of the town.
   SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or nonprofit educational institution
including primary and secondary schools, both public and private.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on 1 or more cable
channels.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any service drop not exceeding 150 feet from a single
point or pedestal attachment to the subscriber’s residence.
   STATE-OF-THE-ART. The addition of new services and associated equipment as
they are developed, available and when economically feasible and marketable to
subscribers as specifically required under the terms of a franchise agreement.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who elects to subscribe for any purpose to cable
service provided by a grantee by means of, or in connection with, the cable
system, and whose premises or facilities are physically wired and lawfully
activated to receive cable service from grantee’s cable system.
   SYSTEM. A grantee’s cable system operated pursuant to a franchise agreement
within the franchise area.
   TOWN. The Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina, as it is now or may in the
future be constituted.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the Town Manager to represent the
town in all business with the grantee.
   TRAINED REPRESENTATIVE. Employees of the grantee who have the authority and
capability while speaking with a subscriber to, among other things, answer
billing questions, adjust bills and schedule service and installation calls.
   UPSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from a subscriber’s terminal to the
headend of the system including video, audio or digital signals or any other
type of data or information for either programs or other uses, such as security
alert services and the like.
(Ord. passed - -)
FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS
§ 115.015 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain
a cable system or to provide cable service in the town without a franchise; any
person shall be subject to a fine of $500 per day. The payment of the fine
notwithstanding, all violators shall be subject to all other applicable
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the payment of a
franchise fee.
   (B)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be nonexclusive.
The grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, additional
franchises for a cable system or any component thereof, to any other person
including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable federal and
state law.
   (C)   In the event the town grants more than 1 franchise or similar
authorization for the construction, operation or maintenance of any cable
system to a qualified person in the town, the town shall grant the franchises
on terms that are non-discriminatory and competitively neutral, provided that
nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the use of identical terms or
conditions, in accordance with federal law.
   (D)   A franchise agreement shall establish the term of each individual
franchise.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.016 FEDERAL, STATE AND TOWN JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The town shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under the
provisions of this chapter and all applicable laws. This authority shall be
vested in the Town of Wilkesboro Board of Commissioners and administered
through the Town Manager or his or her designee in order to provide day-to-day
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any
franchise granted hereunder, and to carry out the town’s responsibilities with
regard to cable service.
   (B)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
   (C)   In the event that the federal or state government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction, in a manner as to expand, rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, grantor may, if it so elects, adopt rules and regulations
in these areas to the extent permitted by law, provided the same do not
materially alter the rights and obligations of a grantee under any existing
franchise.
   (D)   Grantee’s rights are subject to the police powers of the town to adopt
and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of the
public. Grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances
enacted by the town pursuant to that power.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all franchises granted
or renewed after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall also
apply to all existing franchises, to the extent not inconsistent with the terms
of any franchise or applicable law. In the event of any conflict between the
terms and conditions of a franchise agreement and the provisions of this
chapter and other generally applicable regulatory ordinances of the town, the
terms of this chapter shall control unless otherwise expressly set forth in the
franchise agreement. A franchise agreement (including all of grantee’s
particular rights, powers, protections, privileges, immunities and obligations
associated therewith as the same exist on the date hereof shall constitute a
legally binding contract between the town and grantee, and cannot be amended,
modified or changed by the town or grantee without the consent of grantee and
in any manner whatsoever, whether by ordinance, rule, regulation or otherwise,
to impose on grantee more stringent or burdensome requirements or conditions;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall preclude the town from
the proper exercise of its police powers, or its powers of eminent domain.
   (F)   In an event of a change in state or federal law which by its terms
would require the town to amend this chapter, the parties shall modify the
existing franchise in a mutually agreed upon manner.
   (G)   Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the town to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.017 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter or a franchise agreement, grantor reserves to itself every right and
power that is required to be reserved by a provision of any other chapter or
under any other franchise.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.018 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AND RENEWAL; FEES.
   (A)   Every grantee shall agree to the terms and provisions of a franchise
agreement as negotiated between the grantee and the grantor. In addition to
those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to be included in the
franchise agreement, each franchise agreement must contain the following
express representations by each grantee:
      (1)   Grantee has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and
accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter as it exists as of
the effective date of the grantee’s franchise agreement.
      (2)   Grantee recognizes, unless otherwise agreed in the applicable
franchise agreement, the right of the town to adopt additional regulations of
general applicability as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its police
power.
      (3)   Every franchise agreement shall contain further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the town and a grantee, except that no
conditions or provisions shall be as to conflict with any provisions of state
or federal law. In case of any conflict or of any ambiguity between any terms
or provisions of a franchise agreement and this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall control, unless expressly set forth in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law
including, but not limited to, the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984,
being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as amended. Grantor and a grantee, by mutual
consent, may enter into renewal negotiations at any time during the term of the
franchise.
   (C)   (1)   An application fee shall not be deemed to be franchise fees
within the meaning of § 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and payments
shall not be deemed to be payments in kind or any involuntary payments
chargeable against the compensation to be paid to the town by grantee, or part
of the compensation to be paid to the town by grantee pursuant to this chapter
or a franchise agreement.
      (2)   All applicants for an initial franchise grant shall submit an
application fee of $2,500 to compensate the town for its costs in reviewing,
preparing and awarding a franchise, including the costs of outside consultants.
Upon grant of a franchise the town may request the payment of an additional fee
to the extent that the reasonable costs of the franchise review and negotiation
process exceed the initial application fee amount. Consistent with the Cable
Act, all fees shall not constitute or be credited towards a grantee’s franchise
fee obligations. Reasonable costs include staff time, professional fees and
administrative costs as determined necessary by the town.
      (3)   The town reserves the right, unless prohibited by applicable law,
to require a grantee to pay the incidental costs of the franchise renewal and
negotiation process. Incidental costs include staff time, professional fees and
administrative costs as stated in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 115.019 INITIAL FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS; CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring an initial franchise for a cable system shall file
an application with the town. An application for an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area;
      (2)   Résumé of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   List of the partner (general and limited) of the applicant, if a
partnership or a list of the principals of the applicant, if a limited
liability company, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by
shareholders holding 10% or greater, if a corporation;
      (4)   List of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each person;
      (5)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or in control of applicant, in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (6)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a CPA audit
or otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the town;
      (7)   Proposed preliminary construction and cable service schedule; and
      (8)   Any additional information that the town may require for the
administration of the franchise.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any application and application fee for an initial
franchise, the Town Administrator shall prepare a report and make his or her
recommendations respecting the application to the Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.020 GRANT OF ADDITIONAL FRANCHISE AND COMPETING SERVICE.
   (A)   Competing or overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact on the
public rights-of-way and on the quality and availability of services to the
pubic. In considering whether to grant 1 or more additional franchises, the
town shall specifically consider, and address in a written report or in
provisions of the franchise agreement, the following issues:
      (1)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise on
the community;
      (2)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in question
to provide cable services to the franchise area;
      (3)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete
construction of the proposed system and activate service in the franchise area;
and whether the applicant can complete construction and activation of its
system pursuant to industry standards;
      (4)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed cable system for the duration of the franchise term. In order to
ensure that any prospective grantee does have the requisite current financial
capabilities, the town may request equity and debt financing commitment
letters, current audited financial statements, bonds, letters of credit or
other documentation to demonstrate to the town’s satisfaction that the
requisite funds to construct and operate the proposed system are available;
      (5)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system, based
upon the applicant’s plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals, and the applicant’s technical qualifications to construct and operate
the system;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance and
operation of a cable system;
      (7)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate 1 or more
additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public rights-
of-way and private property that may occur if 1 or more additional franchises
are granted;
      (8)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to provide
competing cable service to subscribers within the franchise area for the
duration of the franchise;
      (9)   Other information as the town may deem appropriate to be considered
prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise; and/or
      (10)   The purpose of this section is to ensure that any competition
which may occur among grantees will be on terms which when taken as a whole are
non-discriminatory according to federal law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.021 PERMITS FOR NON-FRANCHISED ENTITIES.
   (A)   The town may issue a license, easement or other permit to a person
other than the grantee to permit that person to traverse any portion of the
grantee’s franchise area within the town in order to provide service outside,
but not within the town. That license or easement, absent a grant of a
franchise in accordance with this chapter, shall not authorize nor permit a
person to provide cable service to any subscriber within the town nor render
any other service within the town.
   (B)   The granting of a license, easement or permit shall be conditioned
upon the payment of fee for occupancy of the public right of way to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.022 REVIEW FOR COMPETITION.
   The town recognizes that the cable television and telecommunications
industries are in a period of convergence, that the technologies and services
provided by these industries are rapidly changing, and that the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq., promoted and
encouraged competition between and among these formally discrete industries. At
this time it is premature to know fully the extent to which there will be
changes in law, technology or services that may impact entities that have been
or may be granted franchises or licenses to use the town’s rights-of-way. It is
the desire of the town to be a communications friendly town that encourages the
development of competitive advanced communications capabilities for the benefit
of all its citizens. For this reason the regulatory ordinances and franchises
of the town should not impede or restrict the fair opportunity to compete, but
rather are intended to provide uniform and consistent requirements for all
similarly situated providers.
(Ord. passed - -)
DESIGN PROVISIONS
§ 115.035 SYSTEM DESIGN; UPGRADES.
   (A)   System design.   
      (1)   Every grantee shall offer service that meets the current and future
needs of the town, taking into account the costs of meeting those needs. The
franchise agreement shall incorporate a description of the grantee’s
application in accordance with this chapter, including the general design and
capabilities of the system to identify for the town how the system will meet
the current and future cable service needs of the town.
      (2)   The franchise agreement shall include provisions to ensure cable
service and cable system compatibility with changes in law, technology and
programming and services to maintain a state-of-the-art system throughout the
franchise term.
   (B)   The system. Every system shall pass by every single-family dwelling
unit and multiple-family dwelling unit within the franchise area in accordance
with line extension policies set forth in this chapter. Service shall be
provided to subscribers in accordance with the schedules and line extension.
Unless specified otherwise, service shall also be extended to commercial
buildings on a consistent basis with the residential line extension policies.
   (C)   Upgrade of system. Every grantee shall upgrade its system (herein
referred to as the system upgrade), if required, as set forth in its respective
franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.036 DROPS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall provide installation of at least 1 cable drop, and
provide monthly basic cable service, without charge, to public buildings in
accordance with the line extension policies of this chapter as otherwise
specified in the applicable franchise agreement. Schools shall also receive 1
cable drop and basic cable service at no charge. Following the town’s
designation of additional buildings(s) to receive cable service, and upon the
town’s request, a grantee shall complete construction of the drop and outlet
within 30 days.
   (B)   All cable service outlets shall not be utilized for commercial
purposes.
   (C)   In instances where the drop to the public building exceeds 150 feet,
the grantee may charge for the actual and reasonable cost of its labor and
materials.
   (D)   Every grantee that offers 2-way interactive broadband services to
subscribers within the town shall provide and install at no cost for the term
of the franchise agreement cable modems at every school and to all public
libraries, within the franchise area that are passed by the portions of the
grantee’s cable system that are capable of supporting 2-way services.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.037 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   The town shall have the right to install and maintain town equipment at the
actual cost for the space, not including cost for existing space. Cost will be
limited to any incremental cost for any wire or fixtures. This applies to the
excess space upon the poles and within the underground pipes and conduits of a
grantee, any wires and fixtures desired by the town to the extent that
installation and maintenance does not interfere or compete with existing
operations of a grantee. Town will relinquish its use of poles and conduits
upon 90-days’ notice from a grantee that town’s use interferes with company’s
actual or anticipated use of the same.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.038 NON-DISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO CABLE SYSTEM.
   Grantee may be required to allow non-discriminatory access to its cable
system if it shall be required by federal law. Prior to the enactment of any
like requirement, a grantee shall be provided with reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard, including the right to present evidence with respect
to the need for that requirement. Grantee reserves, and has not waived, any
right it may have, or may later be determined to have, to challenge the town’s
implementation of an open access requirement.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
ACCESS CHANNELS; TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES
§ 115.050 INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK; ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall, to the extent required by federal statutes,
provide institutional network to the extent that a grantee is obligated to
provide support pursuant to its franchise agreement. These may be supported
pursuant to a separate contract arrangement if so agreed upon in the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   Every grantee shall provide a channel or channels, bandwidth capacity,
service and funding for separate Public, Educational and Government (PEG)
Access Channels as specified in its franchise agreement. All like PEG access
channels shall be available to all subscribers as part of basic cable service.
   (C)   Oversight and administration of the PEG Access Channels shall be set
forth in the franchise agreement. The town may designate a community access
corporation or similar entity to administer 1 or more of the access channels.
   (D)   Cost associated with construction and operation of the I-Net shall not
be a franchise fee unless specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.051 GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES.
   (A)   This chapter incorporates technical standards and establishes customer
service practices with which a grantee must comply. In addition, a grantee
shall comply with any additional or stricter requirements established by FCC
regulations, or other federal regulation that may be adopted or amended from
time to time.
   (B)   A grantee shall maintain equipment and keep records as are required to
enable the grantor to determine whether the grantee is in compliance with all
standards required by these regulations and applicable laws.
   (C)   The technical standards used in the operation of a system shall
comply, at a minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC
relating to cable systems pursuant to the FCC’s rules and regulations found in
Title 47, §§ 76.601 to 76.617, as may be amended or modified from time to time,
which regulations are expressly incorporated herein by reference. The results
of any tests required by the FCC, or a franchise agreement shall be made
available to the town within 30 days of written request.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.052 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the town. The town shall
have the right, upon reasonable notice, to inspect and copy or transcribe at
any time during normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans,
financial records, service complaint logs, performance test results and other
like materials of the grantee kept or maintained by grantee or under its
control concerning the operations, finances, affairs, transactions or property
of grantee when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with this
chapter or the franchise agreement. Access to the aforementioned records shall
not be denied by the grantee on the basis that the records contain proprietary
information. Access to proprietary information shall be allowed at a site of
the grantee’s choosing and shall be held in confidence by the town.
   (B)   If any maps or records are not kept in the town, or upon reasonable
notice made available in the town, and if the town shall determine that an
examination of the records is necessary or appropriate, all reasonable expenses
necessarily incurred in making the examination shall be paid by grantee.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.053 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   The grantee shall file with the town, upon reasonable request:
   (A)   All reports required by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
including, but not limited to: annual proof of performance tests and results,
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports and all petitions, applications and
communications of all types submitted by grantee to the FCC, the Security and
Exchange Commission (SEC), or any other federal or state regulatory commission
or agency, having jurisdiction over any matter affecting operation of grantee’s
system.
   (B)   An annual report setting forth the physical miles of plant
construction and plant in operation at the end of the fiscal year will be made
available at the local office of the grantee for review by the town.
   (C)   Rebuild/upgrade/construction reports shall be sent to the town 30 days
after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and monthly thereafter until
construction is completed as specified in this chapter or the franchise
agreement.
   (D)   Proof of performance test results performed as required by the FCC
shall be supplied to the town.
   (E)   Tests required by town as specified in this chapter shall be submitted
within 30 days of notification.
   (F)   The grantee’s schedule of charges, regular subscriber service policy
regarding the processing of subscriber complaints, delinquent subscriber
disconnect and reconnect procedures and any other terms and conditions adopted
as the grantee’s policy in connection with its subscribers shall be in
accordance with applicable state and federal laws, rules or regulations.
   (G)   Grantee shall submit to the town the required performance bond, or a
certified copy thereof, and insurance certificates as required under the terms
and conditions described in this chapter.
   (H)   The following financial reports for the franchise area shall be
submitted to the town, upon reasonable notice and as required by the town:
      (1)   A statement verifying the amount of gross annual revenues derived
from the franchise, certified by the Vice President for Finance or a duly
authorized officer or manager of the grantee;
      (2)   An annual list of officers and members of the Board of Directors of
grantee and of grantee’s parent corporation, if applicable; and
      (3)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the town at the times and
in the form prescribed, additional reports with respect to its operation,
affairs, transactions or property, as may be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to ascertain grantee’s compliance with this chapter or the
franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.054 TEST AND COMPLIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Tests for a system shall be performed periodically in a manner so as
to conform to FCC specifications. The town shall notify the grantee of its
desire to witness the tests for a period of 90 days beyond the date of request.
Grantee shall notify the town at least 5 business days prior to conducting
tests. Representatives of the town may witness the tests and written test
reports shall be made available to the town upon request. If any test locations
fail to meet the specifications, the grantee shall be required to indicate what
corrective measures have been or will be taken. Grantee shall have the site re-
tested on a timely basis as needed.
   (B)   Whenever there have been similar complaints made or when there exists
other evidence, which, in the reasonable judgment of the town, casts doubt on
the reliability or quality of the grantee’s system, the town shall have the
right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze and report on the
performance of its system. The town may require additional tests, full or
partial repeat tests, different test procedures or tests involving a specific
subscriber’s terminal. Reports on tests shall be delivered to the town no later
than 30 days after the town formally requests the tests and shall include the
following information: the nature of the complaints which precipitated the
special tests; what system component was tested; the equipment used and
procedures employed in testing; the results of the tests and methods by which
complaints were resolved. Tests and analyses shall be supervised by an engineer
or other trained technical specialist who shall sign all records of the special
tests and forward same to the town with a report interpreting the results of
the tests and recommending what actions should be taken by the town. All tests
conducted by grantee shall be at the expense of the grantee.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to employ or contract with qualified
consultants and attorneys if necessary or desirable to assist in the
administration of this, or any other section of this chapter or the franchise
agreement. If test results differ by more than 10% from the FCC technical
standard, the grantee shall reimburse the town for its reasonable costs
associated with the testing.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.055 EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each grantee must provide emergency alert override capabilities in a manner
consistent with the FCC’s emergency alert system (EAS) rules and consistent
with any state and/or regional emergency alert system plans adopted in response
to the FCC’s EAS rules that are applicable to the franchise area.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 115.056 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   Each grantee shall provide programming from each of the broad programming
categories identified in its franchise agreement. All programming decisions
remain within the sole discretion of each grantee, provided that each grantee
complies with federal law regarding notice to grantor and subscribers prior to
any channel additions, deletions or realignments, and further subject to the
grantee’s signal carriage obligations pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 531-536, as may
be amended and subject to the town’s rights pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545, as may
be amended. The grantee shall use its good faith efforts to ensure diversity of
programming.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 10
§ 115.057 CABLE SYSTEM OFFICE HOURS AND TELEPHONE AVAILABILITY.
   Cable system office hours and telephone availability attached as Appendix A
are the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) customer service standards with
which grantee must comply.
(Ord. passed -) Penalty, see § 10.92
§ 115.058 PARENTAL CONTROL.
   Every grantee shall make available to any subscriber upon request a lockout
device for blocking both video and audio portions of any channel(s) of
programming entering the subscriber’s premises. The device shall be provided at
a reasonable charge, except to the extent that federal law specifically
provides otherwise. The grantee may, however, require a reasonable security
deposit for the use of a device. This section shall not apply to channels that
are on the basic or expanded basic tier of programming unless the subscriber
receives service via a programmable terminal device, such as a converter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.059 PERIODIC SUBSCRIBER SURVEY.
   The franchise agreement shall provide terms for a periodic subscriber survey
to assess the cable service needs and interests of the community throughout the
term of the franchise, as well as procedures for review and implementation of
changes identified through any survey.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.060 INSTALLATIONS EXCEEDING STANDARD INSTALLATION.
   Service drops in excess of 150 feet and concealed wiring in the home shall
be charged to the subscriber based upon time and material. The desire of the
subscriber as to the point of entry into the residence shall be observed
whenever possible. Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as
possible. The grantee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber’s property caused by installation.
Restoration shall be undertaken within no more than 10 days after the damage is
incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible thereafter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.061 SERVICE AREA AND LINE EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   No grantee may discriminate in the build-out of its system to a
particular area of the town in providing service to an individual or groups of
residents on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition. Unless
the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee shall serve all areas
of the town equally with populations of at least 15 residential dwelling units
per cable mile as measured from a grantee’s existing distribution system,
including areas annexed subsequent to the grant of the franchise. The franchise
agreement shall provide a schedule of the areas to be served, and the specific
build-out requirements of the grantee, and shall also describe the process for
extending service to areas that will meet minimum density requirements at some
future date. Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee
shall extend service to commercial areas at no additional costs where the costs
to do so does not exceed the same costs of providing service in a residential
area with a density of 15 homes per mile.
   (B)   During the initial construction phase of a new system, a grantee may
implement its system in stages pursuant to a schedule and line extension policy
established in its franchise agreement that serves all areas of the town
equally, provided that any deviation from the service and line extension
requirements of this chapter do not discriminate between different areas of the
town on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition. A grantee of
any new franchise shall comply with all customer service obligations with
respect to customers whose premises are passed by portions of the grantee’s
network which are fully activated, tested and available for service.
   (C)   Pursuant to §
115.016(A) of this chapter, and in franchise agreements with a 15 homes per
mile requirement in areas with less than 15 homes per proposed cable mile,
grantee shall offer a cost-sharing arrangement to residents. Grantee shall hear
its pro rata share of the current construction costs based upon the actual
number of homes per mile. The cost-sharing arrangement shall consist of the
following: On the request of a subscriber desiring service, grantee shall
prepare, at its cost, an engineering survey and cost analysis to determine the
cost of the plant extension required to provide service to the subscriber from
the closest usable point on the cable system. The cost of construction shall be
allocated based on the following formula: If a request for extension into a
residential area requires the construction of cable plant which does not pass
at least 15 homes per cable mile, a proportionate share of construction costs
shall be borne by grantee and by the subscribers. For example, if there are 10
dwelling units per mile, grantee’s share will equal 10/15th of the construction
cost. The remaining cost will be shared equally by each subscriber in the area
to be constructed. The line extension formula shall also be applied to a
portion of a cable mile meeting proportionate density requirements. For
example, if there are 7 dwelling units per 1/2 mile, the grantee shall
construct the plant. The cost sharing described above would be utilized if
there were less than the proportionate share of dwelling units per the portion
of 1 mile needed to reach the dwelling units. Should additional subscribers
request cable service, subscribers utilizing the cost-sharing plan for
extension shall be reimbursed pro-rata for their contribution or a proportional
share thereof. In that case, the pro-rata shares shall be recalculated and each
new subscriber shall pay the new pro-rata share, and all prior subscribers
shall receive refunds. In any event, at the end of 24 months from completion of
the project, the subscribers are no longer eligible for refunds, and the
amounts paid by subscribers will be credited to the plant account of the
grantee. The average cost of the line extension shall be recalculated annually
based upon the current costs of labor and material. Each person contributing
toward the direct cost of the line extension shall waive all ownership interest
in the line extension. All equipment and components of the line extension,
including, but not limited to, cable wire, electronics and pedestals shall at
all times remain the exclusive property of the grantee.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.062 TOWN MONITORING.
   In addition to free cable service required by the chapter, grantee shall
provide 1 service feed to town administration offices (unless otherwise
specified by town) that shall receive, without charge, all basic and expanded
basic cable service programming provided by grantee. The service shall be
provided in manner that the town may monitor the programming and use of the
cable system for compliance with the franchise agreement and this chapter. The
services provided pursuant to this requirement shall be in a secure office
location, and not in a location open to public viewing.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.063 ACCESS TO INSIDE WIRING.
   Access to, and ownership of, inside wiring shall be in accordance with §§
76.800 et seq. of the FCC rules and regulations as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99 
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 115.075 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to commencing any construction in the town, a grantee must obtain all
necessary permits and licenses required by federal, state and generally
applicable town laws, ordinances and rules, and pay all associated non-
discriminatory fees. Further, a grantee shall comply with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and standards relating to the construction, operation and
maintenance of a cable system.
(Ord. passed- -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.076 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   The construction, installation and maintenance of the cable system shall be
effectuated by grantee in a manner that is consistent with the laws, ordinances
and construction standards of the State of North Carolina, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, the National Electrical Safety Code, National
Electrical Code and the FCC, to the extent applicable, as well as all other
laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that are generally applicable and
promulgated pursuant to the town’s lawful police power. All open connections on
splitters, couplers and other devices shall be properly terminated.
(Ord passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.077 MINIMUM INTERFERENCE.
   All of grantee’s construction, installation, operation, repair and
maintenance, and the arrangement of its lines, cables and other appurtenances,
on public or private property, shall be conducted in a manner as to not
unreasonably interfere with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners that may be affected. In the event that work is not in accordance with
applicable rules and regulations, the town may require the removal, within a
period of time after notice as is reasonable under the circumstances, of
grantee’s lines, cables and appurtenances from the public rights-of-way in
question, at the sole expense of the grantee.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.078 REPAIR OF PROPERTY.
   Grantee shall promptly repair and restore any town or private property which
may be damaged as a result of the construction, installation, operation,
repair, maintenance or removal of the cable system. Any property damaged or
destroyed shall be promptly repaired and restored by grantee, at grantee’s sole
cost and expense to the reasonable satisfaction of the town, to its condition
prior to being damaged, or shall be replaced by grantee with equivalent
property. The town may inspect and approve the condition of the public rights-
of-way and cables, wires, attachments and poles after restoration. The
liability, indemnity, insurance and performance bond as provided herein shall
continue in full force and effect during the period of any removal and until
the grantee has fully complied with the terms and conditions of this chapter
and the franchise agreement. In the event of a failure by the grantee to
complete any restoration work required by the town within the time as may be
established by the town and to the reasonable satisfaction of the town, the
town may, following reasonable notice to the grantee, cause work to be done and
the grantee shall reimburse the town the cost thereof within 30 days after
receipt of an itemized list of cost, or the town may at its option recover
costs through the performance bond provided by grantee. The town shall be
permitted to seek legal and equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.079 ERECTION OF POLES.
   Grantee shall not erect any pole on or along any public rights-of-way in an
existing aerial utility system without the advance written approval of the
town. If additional poles in an existing aerial route are required, grantee
shall negotiate, as needed, with the owners thereof for the installation of the
needed poles. Grantee shall negotiate the lease of pole space and facilities
from the existing pole owners for all aerial construction, under mutually
acceptable terms and conditions.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.080 RESERVATIONS OF STREET RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the town from
constructing storm or sanitary sewers, grading, paving, repairing or altering
any public rights-of-way, or laying down, repairing or removing water mains,
traffic signal control systems, town fiber plant or constructing or
establishing any public utility, service or other public work that the town may
operate or undertake now or in the future. All work shall be done, insofar as
practicable, in a manner as not to obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and
operation of poles, wires, conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of
grantee. If town in its reasonable judgment shall determine that grantee’s
facilities interfere with the construction location or repair of any public
right-of-way or public improvement, then all facilities of grantee shall be
removed or replaced or temporarily disconnected, in a manner as shall be
directed by the town so that the same shall not interfere with the public works
of the town. The removal or replacement shall be at the expense of grantee;
provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall preclude grantee from
seeking reimbursement or removal or replacement costs from any public funds
generally available to rights-of-way users for a reimbursement of the costs.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.081 UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION.
   In those areas within the town where cable television, telephone or
electrical facilities are currently placed underground, all cable system
facilities shall remain or be placed underground. In areas where either
telephone or electric utility facilities are above ground at the time of
installation, grantee may install its cable system facilities above ground,
provided that at those times as both electric and telephone utility facilities
are placed underground, grantee shall likewise place its cable system
facilities underground without cost to the town. Nothing contained in this
section shall require a grantee to construct, operate and maintain underground
any ground-mounted appurtenances, except that grantee shall take steps to
minimize the number and visual impact of facilities. If the grantor reimburses
any utility for relocation, grantee shall be similarly reimbursed. This section
shall not prevent the town or any of its agencies or joint agencies from
requiring the installation or relocation of cable services facilities
underground pursuant to a separate ordinance or regulation or requirement
imposed in accordance with the exercise of the general police power or
regulatory function of agency or joint agency.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.082 CONDUIT.
   (A)   The town shall not be responsible for any cuts or damage to buried or
underground facilities of a grantee that are not clearly marked or cannot be
located through the North Carolina One-call service.
   (B)   Grantee shall provide the town detailed strand and trench maps in both
paper and a mutually agreed upon electronic format of all new underground and
buried cable facilities upon activation of those sections of the system.
   (C)   Grantee shall provide a contact number for the town to call in
emergency situations requiring an immediate response on the part of the town.
If the grantee does not properly and effectively identify the precise location
of its facilities within 45 minutes of an emergency call from the town, the
town shall not be responsible for damage to the grantee’s facilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.083 CLEARING POLES AND CABLES.
   Grantee shall have the right to remove, trim, cut and to keep clear of its
poles, cables, underground conduits and related equipment the trees in and
along the public rights-of-way, but, in the exercise of that right, grantee
shall not cut trees to any greater extent that is reasonably necessary for the
construction, erection, installation, maintenance and use of cable system
equipment. Except in emergency situations, grantee shall not remove, trim or
cut trees from any public rights-of-way without first providing reasonable
notice to the town of its intention to do so, notice to be delivered not less
than 10 days in advance. The grantee shall compensate the town or any private
owners of trees for any damage proximately caused by grantee’s negligent
conduct.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.084 MOVING FACILITIES.
   Grantee, on the request of the town, or any person holding a building permit
issued by the town, or any permit issued by an appropriate state agency, shall
temporarily move its wires, cables, poles or other cable system facilities to
permit the moving of large objects, vehicles, buildings or other structures.
The expense of temporary moves shall be paid to grantee by the person
requesting the same and grantee shall have the authority to require payment in
advance. Grantee shall be given not less than 30 days advance notice to arrange
for temporary moves.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.085 WORK PERFORMED BY OTHERS.
   To the extent applicable, all provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
subcontractors or others performing any work or services pursuant to the
provisions of a franchise agreement on behalf of a grantee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.086 RELIEF FROM LIABILITY.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from liability
arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring
grantee’s facilities while performing any work connected with grading, re-
grading or changing the line of any public rights-of-way or with the
construction of any sewer or water system or utility system.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS
§ 115.100 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise agreement imposes
upon the town additional regulatory responsibility and expense and in
consideration for permission to use the public rights-of-way of the town for
the construction, operation and maintenance of a cable system within the town,
a grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the town a franchise fee in
an amount as designated in the franchise agreement, up to the maximum amount
allowed by applicable law. To the extent that applicable law changes the
maximum authorized franchise fee, the town reserves the right to change the
franchise fee as stated the franchise agreement by adopting a chapter
establishing the new franchise fee rate and allowing reasonable notice to the
grantee for administration of the change. The town shall hold a public hearing
prior to adopting any change in the franchise fee.
   (B)   Payments due grantor under this section shall be computed quarterly
for the preceding quarter. Each quarterly payment shall be due and payable no
later than 45 days after the end of the preceding quarter. Each payment shall
be accompanied by a brief report by a grantee showing the basis for the
computation and a Franchise Fee Worksheet listing all of the sources of
revenues attributable to the operation of grantee’s system in the town. All
payments shall be certified as correct by an officer of the grantee.
   (C)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall acceptance of payment be
construed as a release of any claim grantor may have for further sums payable
under the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement. All amounts paid
shall be subject to audit and recomputation by grantor or its designee at any
time during any calendar year (but not more than once per calendar year) upon
20 calendar days’ notice, which shall include a request for any documents
sought to be reviewed. Audits shall be at the expense of the grantee if the
additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any additional
amount due to the town as a result of the audit shall be paid within 60 days
following written notice to the grantee by the town which notice shall include
a copy of the audit report. Grantor's right to audit and grantee's obligation
to retain records related to the franchise fee audit, shall expire 3 years from
the date on which the most recent franchise fee payment by the grantee was due
from the time of written notice.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified herein, grantee shall pay as additional
compensation an interest charge, computed from the due date, at the annual rate
equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the town’s primary depository
bank during the period that the unpaid amount is owed.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.101 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Each grantee shall maintain a performance bond with the town to ensure
compliance with this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, in an
amount and in a manner as set forth in the grantee's franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.102 PENALTIES PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever grantor has reason to believe that a grantee has violated any
material provision of a franchise agreement or this chapter, grantor shall
first notify the grantee of the material violation and demand correction within
a reasonable time, which shall not be less than 20 days in the case of the
failure of a grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor under a
franchise agreement, and 30 days in all other cases. If a grantee fails to
correct the violation within the time prescribed, or if a grantee is unable to
correct the violation and fails to commence corrective action within the time
prescribed and to diligently remedy the violation thereafter, the grantee shall
then be given written notice of not less than 20 days for public comment. The
notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity the violation alleged to have
occurred.
   (B)   At the public hearing, the Board shall hear and consider all relevant
evidence and thereafter render findings and a decision based upon the evidence.
Any hearing must, at a minimum, provide the grantee a full and fair opportunity
to be heard by the Board.
   (C)   In the event the Board finds that a grantee has corrected the
violation or promptly commenced correction of the violation after notice
thereof from grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy the
violation, or that no violation has occurred, the proceedings shall terminate
and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
   (D)   In the event the Board finds that a violation exists and that a
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or did not promptly
commence and diligently proceed to correct the violation, the Board may impose
liquidated damages to be collected from the performance bond, as set out in the
franchise agreement.
   (E)   If the Board elects to assess liquidated damages, then the election
shall constitute grantor's exclusive remedy for a period of 60 days.
Thereafter, if a grantee remains in non-compliance, the grantor may pursue any
other available remedy.
   (F)   In the event that a franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason of
the default of a grantee, the performance bond deposited pursuant to a
franchise agreement shall remain in effect and available to the grantor until
all pending claims or penalties are resolved or settled, after which point any
remaining amounts in the performance bond shall revert to the grantee.
   (G)   The rights reserved to grantor with respect to the security fund are
in addition to all other rights of grantor, whether reserved by a franchise
agreement, this chapter or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of a right with respect to the performance bond shall affect any other
right grantor may have.
   (H)   In instances of repeated violations, whether remedied or not, the
grantor shall serve special notice outlining additional remediation
requirements. Failure to cure, as measured by repeated instances of the same
violation, is evidence of an evasive practice and may lead to revocation under
§ 115.115.
   (I)   Grantee acknowledges that non-compliance with the provisions of the
franchise agreement and the master ordinance will harm subscribers and the town
and the amounts of actual damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain.
The town may therefore assess the following liquidated damages against grantee
for unexcused non-compliance with the requirement of the franchise agreement
and master ordinance. Grantee acknowledges that the liquidated damages set
forth below are a reasonable approximation of actual damages and that this
provision is intended to provide compensation and is not a penalty. All damages
provided shall be cumulative, unless expressly stated.
      (1)   For failure to materially complete construction or extend service
in accordance with the chapter and the franchise agreement: $250/calendar day
for each day the violation continues;
      (2)   For failure to materially comply with requirements for access
channels: $250/calendar day for each day the violation continues;
      (3)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the I-Net
provisions of the chapter/franchise agreement: $250/calendar day for each day
the violation continues;
      (4)   For repeated, willful or continuing failure to submit reports,
maintain records, provide documents or information: $250/calendar day for each
day the violation continues;
      (5)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the
customer service standards: $250/calendar day for each day the violation
continues;
      (6)   For failure to comply with the transfer provisions: $250/calendar
day for each day the violation continues; and
      (7)   For violation of other material provisions of the chapter and the
franchise agreement: up to $250/day for each day the violation continues.
   (J)   For the purposes of calculating the amount of liquidated damages, time
periods shall be tolled for time as grantee is found to be diligently working
to remedy the violation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.103 BONDS, INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   Each grantee shall maintain bonds and insurance with the town in amounts and
in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement. Each grantee
also shall be required to indemnify the town in a manner as set forth in the
grantee’s franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
REVOCATION AND FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP AND ABANDONMENT
§ 115.115 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   Grantor reserves the right to revoke the franchise, and all rights and
privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that:
   (A)   A grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
   (B)   A grantee attempts to evade any of the material provisions of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
   (C)   A grantee practices an act of fraud or deceit upon the grantor;
   (D)   A grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged bankrupt;
   (E)   A grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as required
pursuant to its franchise; or
   (F)   A grantee violates any orders or rulings of any regulatory body having
jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the franchise and
after notice thereof, shall continue the violation and not remedy the same
within 60 days.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.116 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever grantor has reason to believe that there may be grounds for
revocation of a franchise, grantor shall first notify the grantee in writing of
its basis for believing grounds for revocation exist. That notice shall
indicate with reasonable specificity the grounds for revocation that are
believed to exist so that the grantee may have a reasonable opportunity to cure
or otherwise address the same. If a grantee fails to adequately cure or address
the purported grounds for revocation within 30 days of the notice, then the
grantor may, upon 30-days’ written notice to the grantee, commence a public
administrative hearing to determine whether there exists any ground for
revocation.
   (B)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted so as to protect the
full due process rights of the parties and provide for, at a minimum, the right
to have counsel, the right to call and cross-examine witnesses, and the right
to a full transcript of the proceedings.
   (C)   After the close of the hearing, grantor or the designated hearing
officer shall issue a written decision based on the record of the proceedings,
stating with specificity the findings and reasons supporting the decision.
   (D)   Upon revocation, a grantee shall have a period of 120 days subsequent
to the date of the formal adoption of a revocation of the franchise by the town
within which to file an appeal with a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and
effect.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.117 FORECLOSURE.
   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a part of a system, a
grantee shall notify grantor of that fact and notification shall be treated as
a notification that a change in control of the grantee has taken place, and the
provisions of this chapter governing the consent to transfer or change in
ownership shall apply without regard to how transfer or change in ownership
occurred.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.118 RECEIVERSHIP.
   Apart from and supplemental to the right to revoke a franchise, grantor
shall have the right to cancel a franchise agreement 120 days after the
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of a
grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or
proceeding, unless receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to
the expiration of 120 days, or unless:
   (A)   Within 120 days after its election or appointment, the receiver or
trustee has fully complied with all the provisions of grantee’s franchise
agreement and this chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
   (B)   The receiver or trustee within 120 days has executed an agreement,
duly approved by a court having jurisdiction, whereby receiver or trustee
assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this chapter and
the applicable franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
PURCHASE OF SYSTEM; SALE OR TRANSFER
§ 115.130 UPON TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE TERM OR REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   The grantor may, in accordance with and to the extent permitted by 47 U.S.C.
§ 547, upon the payment of a fair valuation, purchase, condemn, acquire, take
over and hold the property and plant of a grantee, in whole or in part, on the
following conditions:
   (A)   Upon revocation of a franchise, a fair valuation shall be an equitable
value that shall not include any sum attributable to the value of the franchise
itself, and plant and property shall be valued according to its book value at
the time of revocation, or the system’s initial cost less depreciation and
salvage.
   (B)   At the expiration of a franchise agreement and following a denial of
renewal of the franchise agreement, a fair valuation shall be the fair market
value of the plant and property, exclusive of the value attributed to the
franchise itself.
   (C)   In the event grantor shall acquire a franchise pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, and commence operation of
the system, grantor shall reimburse the grantee for the fair market value of
the system.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.131 SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No grantee shall sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose of,
in whole or in part, an interest in or control of a franchise or cable system
or any of the rights or privileges granted by a franchise agreement without the
prior consent of the grantor, which consent shall not be unreasonably denied or
delayed and may be denied only upon a good faith finding by the grantor that
the proposed transferee lacks the legal, technical or financial qualifications
to consummate the transaction and operate the system so as to perform its
obligations under this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement. This
section shall not apply to sales of property or equipment in the normal course
of business. Consent from the grantor shall not be required for a transfer in
trust, mortgage or other instrument of hypothecation, in whole or in part, to
secure an indebtedness, or for a transfer to a corporation, partnership or
other entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with a grantee.
   (B)   The following additional events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of an interest in or control of a grantee or its
franchise or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
      (1)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
grantee’s assets;
      (2)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a grantee by 1 or more of
its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a grantee;
      (3)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a grantee so as to create a new controlling
interest in a grantee; and
      (4)   A grantee’s agreement to transfer management or operation of the
grantee or the system. The term controlling interest as used herein is not
limited to major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
   (C)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of an interest in or
control of a grantee or its franchise or cable system, the town shall have 120
days to act upon any request for approval of sale or transfer that contains or
is accompanied by information as is required in accordance with FCC regulations
and the requirements chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, including
information related to the legal, technical and financial qualifications, and
the proposed transferee’s ability to operate the system in accord with this
chapter and the franchise agreement. Failure to provide all information
reasonably requested by the town as part of its review may be grounds for a
denial of the proposed transfer. If the town fails to render a final decision
on the request within 120 days after receipt by the town of all required
information, request shall be deemed granted unless the grantee and the town
agree to an extension of the 120-day period.
   (D)   The consent or approval of the town to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the town in and to
the public rights-of-way, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise
agreement.
   (E)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the town will not
approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to completion of
construction of the proposed initial system.
   (F)   Any approval by the town of a transfer shall be contingent upon the
prospective new grantee becoming a signatory to the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
§ 115.145 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No grantee shall deny service, deny access or otherwise discriminate against
subscribers, programmers or general citizens on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, disability or age. Every grantee shall strictly
adhere to the equal employment opportunity requirements of state and federal
law. Each grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable federal,
state and local laws, and all executive and administrative orders relating to
non-discrimination.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.146 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   Grantees shall at all times comply with the federal subscriber privacy
requirements codified at 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(Ord. passed - -)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 115.160 RATE REGULATION.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to regulate rates for all services offered
over the cable system, to the extent permitted by federal or state law. Grantee
shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions provided for herein, and
those of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) at 47 C.F.R. part 76.900,
subpart N. The town shall follow the rules relating to cable rate regulation
promulgated by the FCC at 47 C.F.R. part 76.900, subpart N. To the extent
required by applicable federal or state law, grantee shall establish rates that
are nondiscriminatory within the same general class of subscribers and which
must be applied fairly and uniformly to all subscribers in the franchise area
for all services
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the grantee from offering:
      (1)   Discounts to commercial and multiple family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
      (2)   Promotional discounts;
      (3)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services;
      (4)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low income residents; or
      (5)   Reduced rates to subscribers who receive non-cable services in
addition to cable services.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.161 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   Upon either the expiration or revocation of a franchise, grantor may
permit and/or require a grantee to continue to operate the cable system for an
extended period of time not to exceed 3 months from the date of expiration or
revocation. A grantee shall continue to operate the system under the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement and to
provide cable service and any and all other services which grantee had been
providing.
   (B)   The grantor shall have the right to compel continued operation of the
cable system whether by the grantee or a trustee or receiver or by the grantor,
and to ensure that the operation is consistent with public interest as
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The grantee may not remove
equipment or documents necessary for continued operation of the system.
    (C)   At all reasonable times, grantee shall permit examination by the town
of the system, together with any appurtenant property of grantee situated
within or without the town when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance
with this chapter, the franchise agreement and all applicable laws.
   (D)   The town shall have the right of intervention in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party relative to grantee’s operations in
the town, and the grantee shall not oppose intervention by the town.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the grantee shall have
no recourse whatsoever against the town or its officials, boards, commissions,
agents or employees for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any
provision or requirements of this chapter or the franchise agreement or of
their enforcement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.162 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE TOWN.
   Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement by reason of any failure
of the town to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.163 GOVERNING LAW AND CHOICE OF FORUM.
   Any dispute arising with respect to this chapter or a franchise agreement
granted pursuant to it shall be subject to review by the state and federal
courts having primary jurisdiction in the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.164 SEVERABILITY.
   If any material portion of this chapter or a franchise agreement adopted
pursuant to it, is held by an authority of competent jurisdiction, to be
invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable laws now or hereafter in
effect, or is held by a court or competent governmental authority to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any applicable
laws, provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and independent part
of this chapter or franchise agreement, and, to the extent possible, the
holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other
provisions thereof.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.165 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   All public notices required to be published by grantor under this chapter or
any franchise agreement shall be published in a manner consistent with the
public notice laws of the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.166 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION CAPABILITIES AND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The cable system shall generally conform to the system design and
channel capacity specifications set forth by the grantee in its application for
a franchise submitted to the town. At a minimum, the grantee shall construct a
system with equivalent technical capabilities to a hybrid fiber coax [HFC] 750
MHz cable system. The grantee is permitted to modify its design and
implementation plan pursuant to the conditions provided herein to accommodate
technological innovations and refinements that enhance system reliability and
capacity.
   (B)   The initial construction required under initial franchise agreement
shall be completed in compliance with a schedule specified therein. If the
grantee shows that, notwithstanding its due diligence, that it has been unable
to extend service to a specified area because the acts or omissions of a third
party (excluding the grantee’s subcontractors or agents) or other factors have
caused a delay in construction beyond that reasonably expected during the
course of construction, and the grantee proposes a reasonable alternative
deadline for extension of service to that area, the town shall grant reasonable
extensions of time to complete construction.
(Ord. passed - -)
APPENDIX A. CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   Customer service standards: Grantee shall at all times comply with the more
stringent of the customer service and consumer protection provisions of the
Town of Wilkesboro’s master cable services regulatory chapter, the franchise
agreement or the FCC.
   (A)   Grantee will at all times comply with the town’s customer service
standards in addition to compliance with the FCC standards (Title 47 C.F.R.
part 76 (cable television service), Subpart H (general operating, requirements)
as amended.
   (B)   The town’s customer service standards are:
      (1)   The customer service standards as set forth below are the standards
set for all affected cable operators. This provision is the town’s notice of
its intent to enforce the standards.
      (2)   Effective with adoption of this chapter, a cable operator shall be
subject to the following customer service standards:
         (a)   The cable operator will maintain a local, toll-free or collect
call telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week;
         (b)   Trained company representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours;
         (c)   After normal operating conditions, the access line may be
answered by a service or an automated response system, including an answering
machine. Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by
a trained company representative on the next business day;
         (d)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis;
         (e)   The operator is required to have equipment or perform surveys to
measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above;
         (f)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than 3% of the time; and
         (g)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open
at least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
      (3)   Under normal operating conditions, each of the following 4
standards will be met no less than 95% of the time measured on a quarterly
basis:
         (a)   Standard installations will be performed within 7 business days
after an order has been placed;
         (b)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator, the
cable operator will begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no
event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The cable
operator must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business
day after notification of the service problem;
         (c)   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a 4-hour time block during normal business hours (The operator may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
operating hours);
         (d)   An operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment;
         (e)   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time that is convenient for the customer; and
         (f)   The cable operator shall establish a complaint log. The log will
be provided to the town, upon reasonable request for the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with the chapter or franchise agreement. The complaint
log shall be available for review for the current and past 2 years and be in a
format convenient to the grantee. The log shall have sufficient information to
indicate the date of the complaint, nature of the complaint and the grantee’s
resolution of the complaint.
   (C)   Communications between cable operators and cable subscribers are as
follows:
      (1)   Notifications to subscribers. The cable operator shall provide
written information on each of the following areas at the time of installation
of service, at least annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
         (a)   Products and services offered;
         (b)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
         (c)   Installation and service maintenance policies;
         (d)   Instruction on how to use the cable service;
         (e)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
         (f)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the local franchise authority's cable office.
         (g)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
service or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the
cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
30 days in advance of changes if the change is within the control of the cable
operator. In addition, the cable operator shall notify subscribes 30 days in
advance of any significant changes in the other information required by this
division.
      (2)   Billing. Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills
must be fully itemized, with itemizations, including, but not limited to, basic
and premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits. In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must
respond to a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
      (3)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
         (a)   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of the
request of 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
         (b)   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator if
service is terminated.
      (4)   Credits. In the case of an outage, multiple or single, in excess of
24 hours, the grantee shall make every effort to credit the subscriber’s
account based on the period of outage, reasons for outage and general good
business practices. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
      (5)   Late payment for cable service. If grantee assesses processing fee
for late payments, each bill shall specify on its face in a fashion emphasizing
same, such as bold face type, underlined type or a larger font: For payments
received after [date] a processing fee as referenced in the town’s schedule of
fees, which is updated annually, for late payment may be charged. No processing
fees for late payment, however denominated, shall be added to a subscriber’s
bill less than 15 calendar days after the date printed on mailing of the bill
to the subscriber, and shall not exceed the amount permitted under applicable
law.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 116: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Alarm user permits required
   
116.03   Prohibited alarm systems
   
116.04   False alarms; permit revocation
   
116.05   Allocation of revenue
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESS. Any person, firm, association or corporation which
installs, services or responds to electrical, electronic or mechanical alarms,
signal devices, burglar alarms, television cameras or still cameras used to
detect burglary, breaking and entering or intrusion, shoplifting, pilferage,
theft, fire or any emergency situation, for a fee or other valuable
consideration. Provided, however, it shall not include a business which merely
sells or manufactures alarm systems unless business services, installs or
responds to alarm systems at the protected premises. Provided further, this
definition does not include a person, firm, association or corporation which
owns and installs an alarm system on property owned or leased by itself.
Provided further this definition of ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESSES shall not include
the installation or servicing of local alarm systems.
   ALARM SYSTEMS. Any mechanism, equipment or device which is designed to
operate automatically to transmit to the Police Department or Fire
Communications or other receiving station, or communications center a signal,
message or warning of an occurrence requiring urgent attention and to which
emergency personnel are expected to respond. This definition shall not include
local ALARM SYSTEMS.
   ALARM USER.  Any person, firm, association or corporation of any kind in
control of any building, structure or facility wherein an alarm system is
installed, operated and maintained.
   FALSE ALARM. Activation of an alarm system eliciting a response by emergency
personnel when a situation requiring a due response does not in fact exist.
This includes accidental, avoidable and unnecessary alarm activation due to
user error, equipment malfunction/or improper or unsuited equipment, but does
not include alarm activation caused by violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm user
or alarm system business.
   FALSE ALARM DAY. Any 24-hour period that begins with the occurrence of a
false alarm.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. A signaling system which when activated, causes an
audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated only in or on the
premises wherein the system is installed, operated and maintained.
   SPECIAL TRUNKLINES. A telephone line leading into the Town of Wilkesboro
Police or Fire Department or other communications center having the primary
purpose of receiving alarm signals or messages.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 116.02 ALARM USER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the effective date of this chapter every alarm
user shall obtain an alarm user permit for each alarm system he or she operates
within the Town of Wilkesboro from the office of the Chief of Police or Fire
Chief. This does not require that a licensed alarm system business obtain a
permit under this section when it leases or provides services to alarm system
users. If a licensed alarm business does, however, use an alarm system to
protect its own premises, it shall obtain a permit for systems as required in
this section. Local alarm system users are not required to obtain user permits
required under this section.
   (B)   (1)   The alarm user applying for the permit required in division (A)
of this section shall state on the permit application form: his or her name,
the address of the residence or business in or upon which the alarm system has
been or will be installed, his or her telephone number, the type of alarm
system, the alarm system business selling, monitoring, inspecting, responding
to and/or maintaining the alarm system and the name, address and telephone
number of at least 2 other persons who can be reached at any time, day or
night, and who are authorized by the alarm user to respond to and open the
premises in which the system is installed.
      (2)   At the time any information required as provided in division (B)(1)
of this section is revised, modified, updated or in any manner changed, the
alarm user shall make changes known by applying for a renewal application
obtained and completed in the manner as provided in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of
this section.
      (3)   A $10 fee shall be charged for each initial permit application
approved by the Chief of Police or Fire Chief or his or her designee. No charge
shall be levied for any subsequent renewal application unless renewal is the
result of a permit revoked from an alarm user as provided in
§ 116.04 of this chapter. A renewal fee of $25 shall be charged for any renewal
of a revoked users permit.
   (4)   The information contained in alarm user permit applications required
by the section shall be securely maintained and restricted to inspection only
by the Chief of Police or Fire Chief or his or her delegate assigned the
responsibility for handling and processing alarm user permits in the course of
official duties.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Fire Chief or his or her designees shall
approve alarm user permit applications if he or she finds that:
      (1)   The alarm system will not interfere with the orderly conduct of the
Town of Wilkesboro business;
      (2)   The installer of the alarm system maintains a service organization
capable of making necessary repairs within a reasonable period of time after
notice of equipment malfunctions; and
      (3)   The installer of the alarm system is licensed by the State of North
Carolina under G.S. Chapter 74C and subsequent revisions, rules and regulations
adopted thereto.
   (D)   Each permit shall be physically placed upon the premises wherein the
alarm system is installed and shall be available for inspection by the Chief of
Police or Fire Chief or his or her delegate during normal business hours;
   (E)   Any alarm system user who operates an alarm system without a permit as
required by this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.03 PROHIBITED ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any alarm user to install, operate or maintain an
alarm system that transmits to the Police Department a signal, message or
warning of an occurrence requiring urgent attention and to which police or fire
are expected to respond with the exceptions of alarm system user required by
federal, state, county or Town of Wilkesboro, ordinance, regulation or rule to
install, maintain and operate an alarm system: an alarm system user which is a
federal, state, county or Town of Wilkesboro government agency or organization;
and an alarm system business whose purpose is to relay to the Police Department
notification of activation of an alarm system for which a current permit has
been issued by the Chief of Police; provided that signals, messages or warnings
are received by the Police Department Communications Center via a special
trunkline designated for that purpose or a direct connection alarm system
approved by the Police Chief or Fire Chief.
   (B)   The recording of 2 or more responses to an alarm system during any
False Alarm Day shall incur upon the alarm user a response fee of $100 per
response for all false alarms recorded during the False Alarm Day.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 FALSE ALARMS; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   More than 4 false alarm days in a 4-month period from any alarm system
for which a user permit has been obtained shall constitute grounds for
revocation of permit.
   (B)   If the Wilkesboro Police Department Fire Department or Communications
Center records 4 or more false alarm days within a 4-month period:
      (1)   The Chief of Police or Fire Chief shall notify the alarm user and
the alarm system business providing service to the user by certified mail of
the fact and direct that the user submit a report to the Chief of Police or
Fire Chief within 10 days of receipt of the notice describing actions taken or
to be taken to discover and eliminate the cause of the false alarms.
      (2)   If the alarm user submits a report as directed, the Chief of Police
or Fire Chief shall determine if the actions taken or to be taken will prevent
the occurrence of false alarms. If he or she determines that the action will
prevent the occurrence of false alarms, he or she shall notify the alarm user
and the relevant alarm system business in writing that the permit will not be
revoked at that time, and, that if 2 more false alarm days occur within the
next 4-month period, the permit may be revoked as herein provided.
      (3)   If no report is submitted or if the Chief of Police or Fire Chief
determines that the actions taken or to be taken will not prevent the
occurrence of false alarms, or if 2 or more false alarm days are recorded by
police as provided in division (B)(2) above, the Chief of Police shall give
notice by certified mail to the user that the permit will be revoked without
further notice on the tenth day after the date of this notice if the user does
not file within that period a written request for a hearing delivered by
certified mail to the Chief of Police.
      (4)   If a hearing is requested, written notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be served on the user by the Chief of Police by certified
mail at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing, which date shall
not be more than 21 nor less than 10 days after filing of the request for
hearing.
      (5)   The hearing shall be before the Town Manager. The alarm user shall
have the right to present written and oral evidence. If the Town Manager
determines that 4 or more false alarms have occurred in a 4-month period, and
that the user has not taken actions which will prevent the occurrence of false
alarms, and that 2 or more have occurred in a 4-month period, and that the user
has not taken actions which will prevent the occurrence of false alarms, or
that 2 or more have occurred as provided in division (B)(2) above, the Town
Manager shall order revocation of the user’s permit.
      (6)   An alarm system business shall immediately discontinue the relay of
alarm signals to the police or fire communications upon being notified by
certified mail of the revocation of a permit pursuant to division (B)(3) or (B)
(5) above.
      (7)   An alarm user whose permit has been revoked may apply for a revoked
user’s permit as provided in
§ 116.02. The Chief of Police shall not be required to issue a revoked user’s
permit, unless he or she is satisfied that the user’s system has been properly
serviced and its deficiencies corrected. The Chief of Police may impose
reasonable restrictions and conditions upon the user before issuing a revoked
user’s permit.
   (C)   An alarm user as identified in §
116.03 as an alarm user required by federal, state, county or Town of
Wilkesboro statute, ordinance, regulation or rule to install, maintain and
operate an alarm system shall not be subject to permit revocation as provided
under this section, but the holder of the permit shall pay a fee of $50 in lieu
thereof.
   (D)   An alarm user as identified in §
116.03 as an alarm user which is a federal, state, county or Town of Wilkesboro
government agency shall not be subject to revocation or payment of fees as
provided herein.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 116.05 ALLOCATION OF REVENUE.
   All fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be general fund revenue of
the Town of Wilkesboro.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
CHAPTER 117: INSTALLATION OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
117.01   Required license
   
117.02   Applications
   
117.03   Procedure for issuance
   
117.04   Bond required
   
117.05   Termination and renewal of licenses
   
117.06   Suspension; revocation
   
117.07   Change of location
   
117.08   Required permit; fee
 
   
117.99   Penalties
§ 117.01 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm or corporation may for a
consideration install, alter or restore within the town any insulation or other
materials or energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the
State Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
standards who is not either:
   (A)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Chapter
87;
   (B)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (C)   An owner working upon his or her own building; or
   (D)   Licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit an
application for a license to the Town Manager conforming to the following
requirements:
   (A)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   Place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner, officer
or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type authorized herein or other activities involving construction,
alteration or modification of building and structures;
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended or revoked a license of the
type described in division (A)(6) above to the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant.
   (C)   Fees. Each applicant shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of
$10 for a license, the amount to be for the calendar year and prorated by
quarters to the end of the year.
   (D)   False statements. False statements on any applications for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of license.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.03 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review by town officers. Each application received by the Town Clerk
shall be promptly forwarded to the Town Manager and the Town Manager shall then
promptly make any comments and recommendations pertaining to the application
and forward the same to the Clerk of the Town Board.
   (B)   Licensing Agency. The application and any comments and recommendations
relating thereto shall be considered by the Town Governing Board, which Board
shall then order the Town Clerk to issue or deny the license pursuant to the
following standards.
   (C)   Standards. The Clerk of the Town Board shall issue the license, unless
the Town Board shall find that the application or any employee, partner,
officer or director of the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last 3 years of a felony or an act
involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has had a license suspended or revoked by any local, state or federal
government or agency and government or agency has not subsequently granted or
restored license;
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the applications; or
      (4)   Has failed to post the bond or other security required by §
117.04.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of the license the applicant shall file with the
Town Clerk a bond as referenced in the town’s schedule of fees, which is
updated annually, or in lieu thereof, the applicant may deposit a cashier’s
check or cash in the same amount.
   (B)   The security required by division (A) shall be available to indemnify
any person for any damage which may accrue by reason of the applicant's failure
to properly provide or install insulation, energy utilization equipment or
other materials designed or intended to meet the State Building Code standards
for the insulation and energy utilization.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.05 TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the
calendar year for which issued. Renewal of licenses shall be pursuant to the
same procedures and requirements as set forth for initial issuance.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.06 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Governing Board may suspend or revoke any license issued
hereunder at any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant has:
      (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
      (2)   Violated the State Building Code requirements as to insulation or
energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any other
jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit with
respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Town Governing Body. After reasonable notice to
the licensee, the Town Governing Body shall afford the licensee an opportunity
to show why its license should not be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.07 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided 10-days’
notice thereof is given to the Town Governing Body and operation at the new
location does not violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance or
regulation.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.08 REQUIRED PERMIT; FEE.
   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm or corporation licensed under
this chapter may for a consideration install, alter or restore any insulation
or other materials or energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet
the State Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
without first securing a permit from the Town Clerk for each item of work.
There shall be a fee of $10 for each permit issued.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1977)
§ 117.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties and equitable
relief provided for by G.S. § 160A-175 and Chapter 703, North Carolina Session
Laws of 1977.
(Ord. passed 2-12-1977)
CHAPTER 118: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Purpose
   
118.03   Compliance with chapter
   
118.04   Proof of financial responsibility
   
118.05   General prohibited practices
   
118.06   Rates and changes
   
118.07   Hours of operation
   
118.08   Taxi stand designation
   
118.09   Taxi service permit required
   
118.10   Driver’s permit required
   
118.11   Proof of license
   
118.12   Suspension or revocation of permits
   
118.13   Fees
   
118.14   Taxi inspection and approval
   
118.15   Daily manifest
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Town Council of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police of the Town of Wilkesboro and his or her designee
(s). The CHIEF is responsible for the administration of this chapter.
   DAILY MANIFEST. A written accounting of each trip, including the following
information:
      (1)   Place of origin of trip;
      (2)   Place of destination of trip;
      (3)   Odometer mileage reading at start of trip;
      (4)   Odometer reading at the end of trip;
      (5)   Time at start of trip;
      (6)   Time at end of trip;
      (7)   Number of passengers carried; and
      (8)   Fare charged.
   DRIVER. Any person who actually drives a taxicab on the streets of the town
for hire. "Drive" or "driving a taxicab" means driving a taxicab for hire on
such streets.
   DRIVER'S PERMIT. The permit issued by the Chief under which a person may
drive a taxicab for hire.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.  A certificate of any insurance carrier
duly authorized to do business in the State of North Carolina certifying that
there in effect a policy of liability insurance insuring the owner and the
driver of the taxicab, his or her agents and employees, while in the
performance of their duties, against loss from any liability imposed by law for
damages including damages for care and loss of services because of bodily
injury to or death of any person and injury to or destruction of property
caused by accident and arising out of the ownership, use or operation,
including driving, of such taxicabs in and amount equal to the greater of:
      (1)   One hundred thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death
of 1 person in any 1 accident and, subject to said limit for 1 person, $300,000
because of the bodily injury to or death of 2 or more persons in any 1
accident, and $50,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others
in any 1 accident; or
      (2)   The limits required by state law (G.S. §20-280(b)), as amended from
time to time.
   TAXI OR TAXICAB. A passenger motor vehicle plying for hire for which public
patronage is accepted or solicited and which is designed as to seat comfortably
not more than 9 persons but shall not include motor vehicles or motor vehicle
carriers as defined in G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 17.
   TAXICAB SERVICE. Any person, business, company, corporation, or other legal
entity who owns 1 or more taxicabs or who engages in the operation of 1 or more
taxicabs under a trade or service name.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.02 PURPOSE.
   For the better protection of the public interest, health, safety, and
welfare or convenience, the following rules and regulations are hereby adopted
setting forth the conditions, requirements, and limitations under which the
owner may operate a taxi service and engage in the business of providing taxi
service within the town.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.03 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating one or
more taxicabs, or to drive any taxicab within the corporate limits of the town
or within one mile beyond the corporate limits in every direction, unless said
person shall have complied, and shall continue to comply, with the provisions
of this chapter. Notwithstanding the preceding, taxicab drivers and operators
who are duly licensed in another jurisdiction may come into the town to pickup
or deliver persons if their services were requested by the passenger, provided
they do not solicit fares within town limits. The term "solicit fares" shall
include directing advertisement of their services toward town residents, such
as advertising in the town phone directory.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.04 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner and driver of every taxicab shall furnish and keep in effect for
each taxicab proof of financial responsibility. The insurance policy shall
contain a clause obligating the insurance company to give 15 days written
notice to the Chief prior to the cancellation of coverage or reduction in
coverage or other material change in the policy of such insurance on any
taxicab. The operating permit for any permit for any taxicab shall be
automatically revoked upon the lapse, cancellation or termination of the
insurance on that vehicle unless the same has been renewed or replaced and a
new certificate filed with the Chief.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.05 GENERAL PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   In addition to the practices prohibited elsewhere in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful:
   (A)   Illegal rates.  For a driver to charge or attempt to charge a
passenger a greater rate or fare than that which is posted in the vehicle as
required by this chapter.
   (B)   Deviating from direct route.  For a driver to fail, refuse or neglect
to proceed with all reasonable dispatch by the nearest practicable route to the
destination of the first person applying to him for transportation unless the
person has granted permission to take on or wait for additional passengers.
   (C)   Illegal use of a cab. For a driver, on or off duty, to knowingly
permit a taxicab to be used for any illegal act or to acquire and transport in
a taxicab any alcoholic beverage for another, or to transport any person to any
place where alcoholic beverages or drugs are illegally dispensed or stored.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.06 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rates of fares to be charged for taxicab services by any person
owning, operating, or controlling any taxicab shall not be in excess of the
rates established by resolution of the Board from time to time. The schedule of
rates for fares for taxicab shall be maintained on file in the office of the
Town Clerk. Until provided otherwise by resolution of the Board, the following
rates shall continue in effect:
      (1)   Mileage. Not greater than $2 per mile, which may be measured in
increments of 1/10 mile at the rate of $0.20 per 1/10 mile.
      (2)   Waiting time. Not greater than $12 per hour.
      (3)   Hand baggage/groceries and other bulky items. A maximum of $1 per
person per trip may be charged.
      (4)   Maximum initial fee upon entering taxicab. $2.
   (B)   A sign setting forth these maximum rates shall be posted inside the
taxicab at a conspicuous place where it will be visible to passengers.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Wilkesboro Town Council may establish by resolution minimum hours of
operation by taxicabs, which shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.08 TAXI STAND DESIGNATION.
   The Council may from time to time designate stands for taxicabs throughout
the town.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.09 TAXI SERVICE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or otherwise participate in the operation of
taxi service within the town unless such person shall have first obtained a
permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person seeking issuance of a taxi service permit shall file a
written application with the Chief on a form supplied by the town. Submission
of any false or misleading information to obtain or renew a permit shall be
grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of such permit. At a minimum, the
application shall include:
      (1)   A list of all motor vehicles that applicant proposes to use in the
taxi service; and
      (2)   A list of all drivers applicant proposes to use in the taxi
service.
   (C)   The Chief will conduct an investigation to determine applicant's
qualifications. Submissions of an applicant for a taxi service permit shall
constitute a waiver of any privileges and rights of privacy with respect to any
document in existence reasonably related to the determination of the
applicant's qualifications and shall serve as an authorization to the Chief to
make inquiry of any person or entity, regarding any facts, evidence or
information reasonably related to the determination of the applicant's
qualifications. If needed, the applicant shall sign a separate written
authorization for the release of documents or information concerning the
applicant.
   (D)   No taxi service permit will be issued unless the applicant meets the
following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age or is otherwise legally
emancipated and is a U.S. citizen or possesses documentation of eligibility to
work in the United States;
      (2)   The applicant has not been convicted within the last 10 years of
any of the following:
         (a)   Any felony against the state or any offense against another
state which would have been a felony committed in North Carolina;
         (b)   Any federal or state law relating to the use, possessions, or
sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
         (c)   Any federal law relating to prostitution;
         (d)   The Chief upon completion of a permit investigation shall make a
report with recommendations to the Town Manager regarding approval or denial of
a permit or a renewal based on an investigation.
         (e)   A Permit shall be nonexclusive and shall be granted for a term
of 3 years from effective date of the permit. The permit may be renewed for
terms of 3 years. Renewal requests must be forwarded to the Chief at least 30
days prior to permit expiration.
         (f)   A permit shall not be sold, transferred, leased, assigned, or
disposed of, in whole or in part, either by voluntary, involuntary, or forced
sale, or by merger or consolidation or otherwise.
         (g)   If the permit holder, for any reason, is no longer able to
provide the taxi service as applied for, the taxi service permit shall
immediately terminate.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.10 DRIVER'S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person who transports passengers for a taxi service shall obtain
a driver's permit from the Chief. The Chief will conduct an investigation to
determine applicant's qualifications, submissions of an applicant for a
driver's permit shall constitute a waiver of any privileges and rights of
privacy with respect to any document in existence reasonably related to the
determination of the applicant's qualifications and shall serve as an
authorizations to the Chief to make inquiry of any person or entity, and to
receive any oral or written reports from any person or entity, regarding any
facts, evidence or information reasonably related to the determination of the
applicant's qualifications. If needed, the applicant shall sign a separate
written authorization for the release of documents or information concerning
the applicant.
   (B)   No driver's permit shall be issued unless the applicant meets the
following criteria;
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age or is otherwise legally
emancipated and is a U.S. citizen or possesses documentation of eligibility to
work in the United States;
      (2)   The applicant has not been convicted within the last 10 years of
any of the following:
         (a)   Any felony against the state or any offense against another
state which would have been a felony committed in North Carolina;
         (b)   Violation of the provisions of G.S.§ 14-204 in regard to
prostitution or assignation.
         (c)   Assault with an automobile.
         (d)   Any 3 convictions of violating any traffic laws or regulations.
   (C)   If at any time a driver is criminally charged with any traffic or
criminal violation, the driver shall notify Chief within 10 days of such
violations.
   (D)   The driver's permit shall be displayed in such a manner as to be in
full view of all passengers at all times while the driver in on duty.
   (E)   Driver's permits are not transferable from one person to another.
Driver's permits shall expire on June 30 of each year. Requests for renewal
shall be made at least 30 days prior to the expiration date.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.11 PROOF OF LICENSE.
   All licensed taxicabs are required to display a town sticker in the right
corner of the back glass to demonstrate recognizable proof of vehicle's
certification.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Chief may suspend or revoke any permit previously granted upon a showing
that the taxi service or driver has violated any provision of this chapter. The
Chief shall notify the permittee in writing that a permit is suspended or
revoked. Upon receipt of such notice, the permittee shall immediately suspend
operations allowed under the permit. The permittee shall have 10 days from the
receipt of such notice to appeal the determination. Appeal will be filed with
Town Manager. The Council shall conduct a hearing on suspension and shall have
final authority on suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.13 FEES.
   (A)   Each taxi service and every driver shall pay to the town an annual fee
in an amount as set forth time to time by the Council in its annual budget,
said fees to be set in the schedule of fees adopted in conjunction with the
schedule of fees.
   (B)   By resolution, the Council shall establish fees for applications for
taxi service permits and driver permits.
   (C)   Until changed by adoption of a new schedule of fees or by resolution
of the Council, the following fees shall be in effect:
      (1)   Taxi service application fee: $50.
      (2)   Taxi service annual fee (privilege license) $15 per taxicab.
      (3)   Taxicab driver permit application fee (exclusive of drivers listed
on taxi service application) $25.
      (4)   Taxicab driver permit annual fee: $3 per driver.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.14 TAXI INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All vehicles must pass the annual safety and inspection required by the
state of North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles and be maintained in a
manner that would meet the requirements established by that inspection. In
addition, at any time, the Chief shall have the right to inspect, approve or
disapprove the various taxicabs and all equipment thereon operated in
connection with the taxi service, and such inspections shall not be limited to
the requirements of the annual Department of Motor Vehicles inspections. The
Chief shall have the right to order removal from service of any vehicle
reasonably deemed to be a safety hazard.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.15 DAILY MANIFEST.
   (A)   The taxi service shall require every driver to maintain a daily
manifest. All such manifests shall be returned to the taxi service by the
driver at the conclusion of his daily tour of duty. The forms for such records
shall be of a character either approved or furnished by the town.
   (B)   The daily manifests shall be maintained for inspection by the town and
shall be retained and preserved in a safe place for at least 90 days.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished for each offense by a fine
not exceeding $500. Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Advertising matter, posters and the like
   
130.02   Tampering with town or personal property
   
130.03   Trees; certain planting restricted; injuring
   
130.04   Jail; damage and defacement
§ 130.01 ADVERTISING MATTER, POSTERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall paint, print, post or in any manner affix any picture,
bill or advertising matter of any kind upon any post, hydrant, curb, sidewalk
or other public building, structure or erection of any kind belonging to the
town, nor upon any mast or pole in any street erected or used for supporting or
conducting any wire or cable incidental thereto, or any structure or erection
of any kind within the limits of any public street or ground in the town,
unless express written consent therefor shall have first been granted by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
   (B)   No person shall post or emplace any bill or advertisement containing
pictures, illustrations of printed or written matter of any obscene or immoral
character at any place so that it can be seen from any street or other public
place.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)
   (C)   No person shall scatter, daub or leave any paste, glue or other
adhesive substance used for affixing bills upon any sidewalk or pavement; nor
scatter or throw any old bills or waste material removed from billboards, on
the surface of any public or private grounds within the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-38) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful defacing of public buildings and monuments in public places, see
G.S. § 14-132
§ 130.02 TAMPERING WITH TOWN OR PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall, without proper authority, knowingly use, tamper with,
render inoperative, destroy, damage, remove, deface, molest or otherwise
interfere with any books, records, furniture, equipment, gear, apparatus, tools
or other items of personal property belonging to, leased to or used by the town
or any agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-39)
   (B)   No person shall, without proper authority, knowingly trespass upon or
damage, deface, molest or otherwise interfere with any real property belonging
to, leased to or used by the town or any agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-40)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of divisions (A) or (B)
above shall, in addition to any penalty which may be imposed for the violation,
be required to pay for the damages inflicted by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 12-41) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting or obstructing public officers, see G.S. § 14-223
§ 130.03 TREES; CERTAIN PLANTING RESTRICTED; INJURING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant either Carolina poplar
trees or maple trees between the sidewalk and the street at any place in the
town.
(Prior Code, § 12-42)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person wantonly or recklessly to injure
any shade, fruit or ornamental tree lawfully standing on any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-43)
§ 130.04 JAIL; DAMAGE AND DEFACEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way mutilate, damage, deface,
injure or render the town jail or place of detention insecure or insufficient
for the purpose for which it is intended; and in addition to any penalty which
may be imposed for violation of this section, the offender shall also be
required to pay for the damages inflicted by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 12-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Arrests; resisting and assisting
   
131.02   Attempts to commit or avoid; aiding or abetting
   
131.03   Interference with and impersonation of town officers and employees;
courtesy
   
131.04   Weapons and explosives
   
131.05   Slingshots and rubber guns as weapons
   
131.06   Posting of signs prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons on
certain municipal property
§ 131.01 ARRESTS; RESISTING AND ASSISTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any officer of the town
in making any arrest, or to rescue or attempt or threaten to rescue any person
who has been arrested, or to incite or attempt to incite others to oppose or
resist an officer in making an arrest or to rescue any person who has been
arrested.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
   (B)   Any able-bodied person who, being called upon by a town officer to aid
in the arrest of another person, who shall fail and refuse to render
assistance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT OR AVOID; AIDING OR ABETTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to commit any act which
is prohibited by this code or other ordinance or by any rule, regulation, order
or notice duly promulgated or given pursuant to authority thereof; and it shall
be unlawful for any person to aid or abet the commission or attempted
commission of any act which is prohibited by this code or other ordinance or by
any rule, regulation, order or notice duly promulgated or given pursuant to
authority thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to avoid the doing of
any act which is required by this code or other ordinance or by any rule,
regulation, order or notice duly promulgated or given pursuant to authority
thereof; and it shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet the avoidance
or attempted avoidance of any act which is required by this code or other
ordinance or by any rule, regulation, order or notice duly promulgated or given
pursuant to authority thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 INTERFERENCE WITH AND IMPERSONATION OF TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES;
COURTESY.
   (A)   No person shall negligently or wilfully interfere with, hinder or
obstruct any officer or employee of the town who is engaged in, en route to or
returning from, the performance of official duty, whether interference,
hindrance or obstruction be by threat, assault or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 12-36)
   (B)   No person shall falsely represent him or herself to be an officer or
employee of the town, or without proper authority wear or display any uniform,
insignia or credential which identifies any town officer or employee; nor shall
any person without proper authority assume to act as an officer or employee of
the town, whether to gain access to premises, obtain information, perpetrate a
fraud or for any other purpose; provided, that nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent a private citizen from making a lawful citizen's arrest
for felony or breach of the peace committed in his or her presence.
(Prior Code, § 12-37)
   (C)   Town officers and employees shall be courteous in their official
transactions with the public, and they shall conduct themselves in the
performance of their official duties so as to not knowingly deprive any person,
at the time and under the circumstances then and there existing, of any lawful
right or benefit to which the person may be entitled. Any person who feels
aggrieved by the conduct of any town officer or employee in violation of this
subsection is hereby invited to bring the matter to the attention of the
officer’s or employee’s department head or to the Mayor, without prejudice to
any other recourse to which the aggrieved person may be entitled.
(Prior Code, § 12-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting public officers, see G.S. § 14-223
§ 131.04 WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot any gun, pistol,
match pistol or explosive material upon any street, sidewalk or lot within the
town (except in defense of person or property) without permission first
obtained from the Chief of Police in writing; and the Chief of Police shall
have power to grant any permit under this section for 1 day only, and that only
upon good reason shown therefor; provided, that this section shall not apply to
the operation of any shooting gallery, rifle range, skeet range or other
controlled type of shooting for which a license or permit to operate a
controlled shooting has been first obtained from the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 12-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 SLINGSHOTS AND RUBBER GUNS AS WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or propel any missile from a
sling-shot or by means of a rubber gun upon any street, sidewalk or lot within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapons, see G.S. § 14-169
   Confiscation and disposition of deadly weapons upon conviction of
possession, see G.S. § 14-169
   Permitting young children to use dangerous firearms, see G.S. § 14-316
   Providing weapons to minors, see G.S. § 14-315
   Sale, purchase and use of certain weapons and ammunition, see G.S. §§ 14-
406, 14- 408, 14-408.1, 14-409
§ 131.06 POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS ON
CERTAIN MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Posting of sign required in buildings and appurtenant premises. The
Town Manager of the Town of Wilkesboro is hereby authorized and instructed to
post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within each building or
portion of a building owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed, or
controlled by the Town of Wilkesboro, as well as the appurtenant premises to
such buildings and operations, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun is
prohibited.
   (B)   Posting of sign required in recreation facilities.
      (1)   The Town Manager of the Town of Wilkesboro is hereby authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each facility or portion of a facility owned, leased as lessee, operated,
occupied, managed, or controlled by the Town of Wilkesboro, as well as the
appurtenant premises to such facilities and operations, indicating that
carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited. Recreational facility is defined to
include athletic fields, swimming pools, and facilities used for athletic
events.
      (2)   Signs indicating that carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited at
outdoor athletic facilities may only be enforced during an organized athletic
event that has been scheduled with the Town of Wilkesboro.
      (3)   Appendix A, which is attached to Ordinance 2020-05 and incorporated
herein by reference as if set out in full, includes all properties and parts
thereof that are impacted by this division (B).
   (C)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building
or facility. The Town Manager of the Town of Wilkesboro shall exercise
discretion in determining the number and appropriate locations of signs to be
placed on or within appurtenant premises.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-3-2020)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Bowling and billiard hours
   
132.02   Fund raising and soliciting alms; permits and applications
   
132.03   Curfew for minors under 15
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Drainage ditches
   
132.06   False alarms
   
132.07   Gambling
   
132.08   Halloween visitations; trick or treat
   
132.09   Interference with pipes, drains, wiring and the like
   
132.10   Mask-wearing
   
132.11   Sound
   
132.12   Sanitation, health and public nuisances
   
132.13   Playing in public places
   
132.14   Property; real and personal
   
132.15   Prostitution; disorderly houses
   
132.16   Railroad tracks and property
   
132.17   Riots, routs and unlawful assemblies
   
132.18   Public transportation and taxis; solicitation and loafing
§ 132.01 BOWLING AND BILLIARD HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to open to the public any poolroom, billiard room,
bowling alley or alley of like kind within the town before 7:00 a.m., and the
closing hour shall be 12:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 12-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 FUND RAISING AND SOLICITING ALMS; PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 20-175(e), the Town of Wilkesboro hereby has
the authority to grant authorization for a person to stand in, on or near a
street or state roadway within the Town of Wilkesboro’s municipal corporate
limits, to solicit a charitable contribution if the following requirements are
met.
      (1)   A person seeking authorization pursuant to this section to solicit
charitable contributions shall file a written application with the local
government, specifically with the Chief of Police or his or her designee of the
Wilkesboro Police Department. This application shall be filed not later than
seven days before the date the solicitation event is to occur. If there are
multiple events or one event occurring on more than one day, each event shall
be subject to application and permit requirements of this division for each day
the event is to be held to include the application fee.
      (2)   The application must include:
         (a)   The date and time when the solicitation is to occur;
         (b)   Each location at which the solicitation is to occur; and
         (c)   The number of solicitors to be involved in the solicitation at
each location.
   (B)   The fee for the permit shall be $25 per day per event.
   (C)   The applicant shall also furnish to the Town of Wilkesboro,
specifically to the Chief of Police of the Wilkesboro Police Department or his
or her designee, proof of liability insurance in the amount of at least
$2,000,000 to cover damages that may arise from the solicitation. The insurance
coverage must provide coverage for claims against any solicitor and agree to
hold the local government, the Town of Wilkesboro, harmless. The town, by
acting under G.S. § 20-175(e), does not waive or limit any immunity or create
any liability for the town. The issuance of an authorization under this section
and the conducting of the solicitation authorized are not considered
governmental functions of the town. In the event the solicitation event or the
solicitor shall create a nuisance, delay traffic, create threatening or hostile
situations, any law enforcement officer with proper jurisdiction may order the
solicitation to cease. Any individual failing to follow a law enforcement
officer’s lawful order to cease the solicitation shall be guilty of a class II
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS UNDER 15.
   (A)   No person under 15 years of age shall be on the streets of the town
after 9:00 p.m., unless in the company of a parent or person having the
guardianship and control over him or her, or unless engaged or employed in
business pursuits requiring his or her presence at the place of business where
engaged to a later hour, or unless by written permission of a parent or
guardian of the person, which permission shall state the purpose for which the
minor is sent out, or in case of sickness or unusual emergency requiring the
sending of a minor out hurriedly.
(Prior Code, § 12-11)
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity; or going to or returning home
form an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence OR abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the Unites States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, or;
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct within the town is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following shall be
guilty of disorderly conduct:
      (1)   Any person who shall act in violent or tumultuous manner toward
another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his or her life, limb
or health;
      (2)   Any person who shall act in violent or tumultuous manner toward
another whereby property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed
or damaged;
      (3)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence, angry threats or abusive conduct;
      (4)   Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl
or riotous conduct so as to endanger life, limb, health or property of another;
      (5)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
for purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
      (6)   Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding or
pushing any person in any public place;
      (7)   Any person who shall be in a group or crowd for unlawful purposes,
as defined by state law, this code or other ordinances;
      (8)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
for purpose or with intent to engage in gaining;
      (9)   Any person who shall frequent any public place with intent to
obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks,
artifices or devices;
      (10)   Any person who assembles with others for the purpose of engaging
in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any
place or from any person in the town, or who shall aid or abet therein;
      (11)   Any male person who shall accost or attempt to force his company
upon any female person or attempts to pick up any female person;
      (12)   Any person who frequents any place where gaming or illegal sale or
possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced,
allowed or tolerated;
      (13)   Any person who shall use language reasonably calculated to incite
violence, directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates
turmoil;
      (14)   Any person who shall assemble with another for the purpose of
trouncing upon another;
      (15)   Any person who shall by acts of violence interfere with another’s
pursuit of a lawful occupation; and/or
      (16)   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on
any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
refuses to clear public way when ordered by town police or other lawful
authority.
(Prior Code, § 12-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct generally, see G.S. § 14-288.4
   Disorderly conduct in or near public buildings, see G.S. § 14-132
   Disturbing picnics, meetings and the like, see G.S. § 14-288.4
   Disturbing religious congregations, see G.S. § 14-288.4
   Disturbing schools and the like, see G.S. § 14-288.3
§ 132.05 DRAINAGE DITCHES.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or having charge of a lot or tract
of land within the town, across, over or upon which there is a ditch or other
natural or artificial channel, to keep the ditch or channel cleaned out so as
to permit at all times a free flow of water that collects therein. Upon notice
from the Town Manager, Chief of Police or Board of Health that any ditch or
channel, either natural or artificial, is a menace to the health of the people
of the town, it shall be the duty of the owner or person in charge of the lot
or tract to clean out the ditch or channel within 5 days. Any owner or person
in charge who shall fail to comply with that notice shall, upon conviction
thereof, pay a penalty for each day or part of day that the ditch or channel
remains uncleaned.
(Prior Code, § 12-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly give or cause to be given any false alarm of
fire.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly give or cause to be given any false alarm of
explosion or impending danger of explosion.
   (C)   No person shall give or cause to be given any false alarm of the need
for police protection or assistance.
   (D)   No person shall give or cause to be given any false alarm of the need
for an ambulance or medical assistance.
(Prior Code, § 12-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-19
   False alarm of fire, see G.S. § 14-286
   False ambulance request, see G.S. § 14-286
   False report to police radio broadcasting station, see G.S. § 14-225
§ 132.07 GAMBLING.
   No person within the town shall bet money, property or other thing of value,
whether the same be in stake or not, at any game of cards or other game of
chance or skill. BEACH BINGO as defined by G.S. § 14-309.14 shall not
constitute gambling and shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Lotteries and gaming, see G.S. §§ 14-289 et seq.
§ 132.08 HALLOWEEN VISITATIONS; TRICK OR TREAT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on or in any public
place in the town for the purpose of making trick or treat visitations, or to
go on or in any private premises for that purpose, except as provided in
division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to children 12 years of
age and under between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. on each Halloween
night.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit his or her
minor child or ward to violate the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.09 INTERFERENCE WITH PIPES, DRAINS, WIRING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any pipe
line or drain, or any ditch connected with any pipe line or drain, or with any
electric light pole or wiring, or any work being done by the town employees or
by contract for the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.10 MASK-WEARING.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the terms MASK and PUBLIC PLACE
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
      MASK. Any mask, device or hood whereby any portion of the face is so
hidden or covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, highway, alley, sidewalk, walk, lane, boulevard
or other way dedicated to public use or owned or maintained by public
authority; and any ground or building owned, leased, maintained or operated by
public authority.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on or in any public
place in the town while masked, except that this division shall not apply to:
      (1)   Children under the age of 13;
      (2)   Workers while engaged in a work wherein a covering is worn for
physical safety and protection against occupational hazards, or because of the
nature of the occupation, trade or profession;
      (3)   Persons while wearing traditional holiday costumes;
      (4)   Persons while engaged in theatrical productions or masquerade
balls; and/or
      (5)   Persons while wearing gas masks prescribed in civil defense drills
and exercises, or in emergencies.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit his or her
minor child or ward to violate the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.11 SOUND.
   (A)   Definitions.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound or combination of sounds which, because of
its volume, type, duration, or quality, tends to disturb persons of normal
sensitivity.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE. An owner, tenant, occupant, employee, agent, or any
other person responsible for creating or causing a noise disturbance. The
person responsible is liable for any violations.
      PUBLICLY SANCTIONED EVENTS. Gatherings, public dances, shows, concerts,
sporting  events, or other similar activities and events that are assumed to
produce noise disturbances for which a permit has been obtained from the
appropriate permitting authority.
      RESIDENCE. Any property zoned for residential use per the Wilkesboro
Zoning Map that also contains a structure used for residential purposes.
   (B)   Sounds impacting residential life.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, make, or contribute
to creating any noise disturbance of the character, intensity, or duration as
would be detrimental to the public health and general welfare of any individual
of normal sensitivity living at a residence. Creating and continuing noise
disturbances in the town is prohibited and will constitute a violation of this
section.
      (2)   The person responsible is liable for any violations.
      (3)   Noise disturbances can occur at any time of the day or night and be
caused by animal and/or human activities.
      (4)   The Town Manager and Police Chief, or their assigned designee(s),
will determine whether a sound constitutes a noise disturbance to a person of
normal sensitivity. Factors considered for determining a noise disturbance
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Proximity of sound to residential areas.
         (b)   The land use, character, and zoning of the area from which the
sound emanates and where the sound is received.
         (c)   The time of day or night the sound occurs. The factors for
determining a noise disturbance are subject to greater scrutiny during the
following times:
            1.   Monday through Thursday after 8:00 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m.
            2.   Friday and Saturday after 11:00 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m.
            3.   Sunday before 1:00 p.m. and after 8:00 p.m.
         (d)   The volume, type, and duration of the sound.
   (C)   Exemptions. Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the
prohibitions contained in this section:
      (1)   Emergency operations or similar activities designed to protect the
public health, safety, convenience, or general welfare.
      (2)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets, highways, or other
utilities, as well as the temporary manufacture of materials necessary to
support these activities in a timely manner by or on behalf of the Town of
Wilkesboro, the State of North Carolina, or the United States Government.
      (3)   School and park activities which are conducted according to how
such spaces are generally used, including, but not limited to, school athletic
and entertainment events.
      (4)   Publicly sanctioned events. The Wilkesboro Town Council and/or
designee is the permitting authority for publicly sanctioned events.
   (D)   Publicly sanctioned events.
      (1)   The Wilkesboro Town Council, or designee, is the permitting
authority for publicly sanctioned events. Applications for these events must be
filed with the Town Clerk, who will present them to the Town Council or
designee for review. Publicly sanctioned event applications must be filed no
less than 30 days before the proposed event date.
      (2)   Establishments and venues, including audience areas, located more
than 1,500 feet (straight line measurement) from residences are exempt from
public sanctioning requirements. Based on prior performance and associated
noise disturbances, the Town Council may require these establishments and
venues to be publicly sanctioned.
      (3)   The Town Council, or designee, will determine denial or approval
after considering whether the proposed event's benefits outweigh the possible
detrimental effects of the noise disturbance it may generate.
      (4)   Prior performance and compliance will be factors when reviewing
future applications.
      (5)   In approving an application and granting a permit under this
section, the Town Council, or designee, may impose conditions. The conditions
shall be deemed a part of the permit, and any violation thereof shall render
the permit null and void.
      (6)   At the discretion of the Town Council, Town Manager, or Police
Chief, ongoing events or unused permits may be revoked at any given time due to
violations.
      (7)   Certain permits may require fees. See the schedule of fees for
guidance.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a notice of violation
assessing civil penalties under this section for a noise disturbance violation.
The citation shall be issued to the person responsible for creating or causing
a noise disturbance with the following associated civil penalties and
enforcement actions:
         (a)   First offense in any 12-month period: A written warning from any
law enforcement officer to cease and abate the noise. The person responsible
shall be given an opportunity to bring his or her conduct into compliance with
this section.
         (b)   Second offense in any twelve-month period: $250.
         (c)   Third offense in any 12-month period: $500.
         (d)   Fourth or subsequent offense in any 12-month period: $1,000 and
revocation of the permit for a period of 12 months and/or until the town has
determined the permittee to have come into compliance, at the discretion of the
Manager or Manager's designee. Repeat noise disturbances may also result in
revocation of other existing or future permit considerations.
      (2)   A violation that occurs or continues one hour or later after an
earlier violation shall constitute a new violation punishable as a separate
offense.
      (3)   The permittee may, within 30 days after a civil penalty or
revocation is issued, submit a written appeal and any supporting documentation
to the Town Manager. The Town Manager or the Manager's designee will obtain
materials from the town officials involved in issuing the citation/revocation,
consider permittee's materials, and issue a final decision.
      (4)   If a person fails to pay any civil penalty within 30 days after the
decision becomes final, the town may recover the penalty, together with all
costs allowed by law, by filing a civil action in the General Court of Justice
in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
      (5)   In addition to civil penalties and permit suspension or revocation,
a violation of this section may also be enforced through injunctive or other
equitable relief, or a combination of remedies as allowed by G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-15-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 132.12 SANITATION, HEALTH AND PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Administration. For the purpose of this chapter, the term NUISANCE
shall mean or refer to any condition or any use of property or any act or
omission affecting the condition or use of property which threatens or is
likely to threaten the safety of the public; adversely affects the general
health, happiness, security or welfare of others; or, is detrimental to the
rights of others to the full use of their own property and their own comfort,
happiness and emotional stability because of decreased property values and the
unsightliness and decreased livability of neighborhoods.
   (B)   Declaration of public nuisance. The following enumerated and described
conditions, or any combination thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared
to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the town. They are hereby found, deemed
and declared to be public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist within
the corporate limits as now or hereafter established. The creation, maintenance
or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
18 inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not be
considered to be a part of this condition; trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants. It shall be the duty of every person occupying,
owning or having control of property abutting on a street or highway that
utilizes a portion of the unused street or highway right-of-way as a yard or
any other use to maintain said right-of-way in the same character and manner as
the abutting use.
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash
which is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and
rats, flies and mosquitoes or other pests.
      (3)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals,
acids, oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or
combustible liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous
substances, gasses or vapors.
      (4)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brash, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection.
      (5)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded
machinery, car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
appliances, cans and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical
fixtures, old rusty metal, fencing materials or other similar materials.
      (6)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
      (7)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (8)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property.
      (9)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit.
      (10)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Code Administrator or his/her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
      (11)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches,
chairs or other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor
vehicles or other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer,
use on any open porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other
outdoor area that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
      (12)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind.
      (13)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition.
      (14)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where
dogs or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are
permitted to roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and
excrement and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be
detected or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary
condition.
      (15)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage
from septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any
other seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids.
      (16)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish.
      (17)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or
other body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other
material likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or
along the water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a
manner so that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies
of water will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner.
      (18)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water.
      (19)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission
of pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors
and stenches to be discharged into the air.
      (20)   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
         (a)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests;
         (b)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
which exceeds 8 inches in height;
         (c)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of
water;
         (d)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
         (e)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
         (f)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
         (g)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
         (h)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain
sharp edges of metal or glass; or
         (i)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
      (21)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Departments.
   (C)   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance. When any condition in
violation of this section is found to exist, the Code Administrator or such
persons as may be designated by the Town Council shall give notice to the owner
of the premises to abate or remove such conditions within 10 days. Such notice
shall be in writing, shall include a description of the premises sufficient for
identification and shall set forth the violation and state that, if the
violation is not corrected within 10 days, the city may proceed to correct the
same as authorized by this section. Service of such notice shall be by any 1 of
the following methods.
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his last known address with regular mail postage prepaid
thereon.
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for 10 days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by divisions (1) and (2).
   (D)   Abatement procedure. If the owner of any property fails to comply with
a notice given pursuant to this section, within 10 days after the service of
such notice, he/she shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this
chapter in accordance with law and each day that such failure continues shall
be a separate offense. In addition, the town may have the condition described
in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred
thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall
be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses shall
constitute a lien against the property on which the work was done.
   (E)   Procedure is alternative. The procedure set forth in this chapter
shall be in addition to any other remedies that may now or hereafter exist
under law for the abatement of public nuisances. In addition to the remedies
provided for herein, any violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject
the violator to the penalties and remedies as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 132.13 PLAYING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall play at any game upon any street or use any street for
the purpose of recreation, except upon a play street designated by authority of
the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   No person shall engage in any game or recreational activity upon any
sidewalk or public place in the town in any manner so as to:
      (1)   Impede pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   Endanger property;
      (3)   Endanger the life, limb or health of any person;
      (4)   Prevent the full and complete use of a sidewalk or public place by
other persons for the intended purposes thereof;
      (5)   Constitute a breach of the peace; or
      (6)   Constitute unreasonable annoyance to persons of ordinary
susceptibilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-25)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to prohibit, abate or suppress all things detrimental to
health, morals, comfort, safety and welfare of the people and to abate
nuisances and the cause thereof, see G.S. § 160A-174
§ 132.14 PROPERTY; REAL AND PERSONAL.
   (A)   No person shall, knowingly and without proper authority, use, tamper
with, render inoperative, destroy, damage, remove, deface, molest or otherwise
interfere with any personal property of another.
(Prior Code, § 12-26)
   (B)   No person shall, knowingly and without proper authority, destroy,
damage, deface, molest or otherwise interfere with any real property of
another, or knowingly trespass upon the real property of another.
(Prior Code, § 12-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.15 PROSTITUTION; DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a house of prostitution or
disorderly house within the town, or to rent any property to another for use as
a house of prostitution or disorderly house; and all adult persons living in
the houses shall be considered keepers thereof. All owners of leased or rented
houses that are being used for the purposes herein set forth shall, on being
made aware of the purpose for which those premises are being used, and after
being notified by the Chief of Police of the town that any house or premises is
being used for immoral purposes, take immediate steps to abate the nuisance or
eject disorderly and immoral tenants.
(Prior Code, § 12-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.16 RAILROAD TRACKS AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall use the tracks, yards or other real property of any
railroad company within the town as a public highway; no person shall pass
through or loiter around any shop, car or depot of any railroad company except
for the bona fide purpose of transacting business with the company or with its
agents; provided, that the provisions of this section shall in no way abridge,
limit or affect the right of the public to use the tracks or other property of
any railway company, in cases where tracks or other property are in or upon the
streets or other public places of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-30)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to jump on or off, or to cling to
or hang on any railroad car or engine in the town while the car or engine is in
motion, a person not being a passenger or an employee or officer of the
railroad company.
(Prior Code, § 12-31)
Statutory reference:
   Bawdy houses, see G.S. §§ 14-188
   Hunting or fishing on posted property, see G.S. §§ 14-159.6 to 14-159.9
   Prostitution, see G.S. §§ 14-303 et seq.
   Trespass on land after being forbidden, see G.S. § 14-134
   Wilful and wanton injury to personal property, see G.S. § 14-160
§ 132.17 RIOTS, ROUTS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   Riots, routs and unlawful assemblies shall be dispersed forthwith by the
town police and other law enforcement officers, and all persons present at the
scene of any riot, rout or unlawful assembly shall, upon command of any law
enforcement officer to disperse, forthwith obey the command and peacefully
disengage themselves from the riot, rout or unlawful assembly and leave the
scene thereof, and persons who fail to obey that command shall be subject to
immediate arrest.
(Prior Code, § 12-32)
§ 132.18 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND TAXIS; SOLICITATION AND LOAFING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab driver, porter or other person to
solicit patronage for any hotel, motel or other establishment catering to
transients while within any railroad or bus station or while within 300 feet of
any station.
(Prior Code, § 12-33)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loaf or lounge in or about the
passenger station of any railroad or bus company in the town without having
some business thereat.
(Prior Code, § 12-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Vehicles for hire, see
Chapter 118
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODES; GENERAL
         
151.   INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
         
152.   REGULATORY CODES
         
153.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
         
154.   NORTH CAROLINA MODEL HOUSING CODE (MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS)
         
155.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
         
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES; GENERAL
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Permits; general provisions
   
150.02   Application for permits
   
150.03   Limitations regarding issuance of permit
   
150.04   Issuance and revocation of permit
   
150.05   Permits and period of validity
   
150.06   Fees regarding permits
   
150.07   Changes in work after issuance of permit
   
150.08   Contractors; requirements regarding Inspection Department
   
150.09   Registered contractors required to give bond
   
150.10   Wiring in commercial and industrial buildings
Public Housing
   
150.20   Applications required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PERMITS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit therefor from
the Building Inspector; provided that no building permit shall be required for
work the total cost of which does not exceed $100 and which does not involve
any change of the structural parts or the stairways, elevators, fire escapes or
other means of egress from the building or the structure in question.
      (2)   In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure, a
good and sufficient bond in the sum of $500 shall be posted by the property
owner or by his or her contractor at the time of application for a permit, to
insure complete removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris. Failure
on the part of the property owner or his or her contractor to completely
demolish, remove and clear the premises, after 30-days’ notice by the Building
Inspector, shall be cause for forfeiture of the bond.
   (B)   No person shall commence or proceed with the installation, extension
or general repair of any plumbing system without a written permit therefor from
the Plumbing Inspector; provided, that no permit shall be required for minor
repairs or replacements on the house side of a trap to an installed system of
plumbing if repairs or replacements do not disrupt the original water supply or
the waste or ventilating systems.
   (C)   No person shall commence or proceed with the installation, extension,
alteration or general repair of any heating or cooling equipment system without
a written permit from the Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector; provided that no
permit shall be required for minor repairs or minor burner services or filter
replacements of warm air furnaces or cooling system.
   (D)   No person shall commence or proceed with the installation, extension,
alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring, device, appliance or
equipment without a written permit therefor from the Electrical Inspector;
provided, that no permit shall be required for minor repair work, such as the
replacement of lamps or the connection of portable devices to suitable
receptacles which have been permanently installed; provided, further, that no
permit shall be required for the installation, alteration or repair of the
electrical wiring, devices, appliances and equipment installed by or for an
electrical public utility corporation for the use of a corporation in the
generation, transmission, distribution or metering of electrical energy, or for
the use of a corporation in the operation of signals or the transmission of
intelligence.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter, and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department. An
application shall be made by the owner of the building or structure affected or
by his or her authorized agent or representative, and in addition to other
information as may be required by the appropriate inspector to enable him or
her to determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall show
the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of owner; and
      (2)   Name, residence and business address of authorized representative
or agent, if any;
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for contractors, if it be required for the work involved in the permit
for which application is made.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
   (B)   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $20,000, and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy thereof shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have
been completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
§ 150.03 LIMITATIONS REGARDING ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure
the estimated total cost of which is more than $20,000 unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a 1 or 2 family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is more
than $20,000, unless the plans bear the North Carolina seal of a registered
architect or a registered engineer.
      (3)   Where any provision of the General Statutes of North Carolina, this
code or any other ordinance requires that work be done by a licensed specialty
contractor of any kind, no permit for work shall be issued unless it is to be
performed by a licensed specialty contractor.
      (4)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications
have been provided.
      (5)   No permit for alteration, repair or construction of any building or
structure shall be issued unless the plans and specifications show that the
building or structure, and its proposed use, will be in compliance with
applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
   (B)   The Town of Wilkesboro's Building Code is hereby amended to require
notice to be given to all persons constructing a new building that they shall
be advised by the Building Inspector at the time they obtain a building permit
that they are required to provide on the site of the building a temporary
sanitary toilet for the use of the persons engaged to the construction of the
building and any person, firm or corporation failing to make arrangements for a
sanitary toilet during the construction shall be in violation of the Building
Code. Any person, firm or corporation in violation of this code shall pay a
penalty of $10 and the cost for each day that he or she fails to provide a
facility for the use of the employees.
   (C)   The Building Inspector is given the authority to enforce this chapter
and shall so advise the person, firm or corporation making an application for a
permit of this requirement at the time of the issuance of the building permit.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1979)
§ 150.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the
appropriate inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work
comply with the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory
codes, he or she shall issue a permit upon payment of the proper fee or fees as
hereinafter provided in
§ 150.06.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
   (B)   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
§ 150.05 PERMITS AND PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation 6 months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 150.06 FEES REGARDING PERMITS.
   There is hereby established the following fee schedule for permits and
inspections required by this chapter and the regulatory codes adopted in this
chapter:
   (A)   Building permit and inspection fees.
      (1)   On the first $100: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (2)   On the next $900 (or any part thereof): See Wilkes County building
permit schedule.
      (3)   On the next $24,000: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (4)   On the next $75,000: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (5)   All over $100,000: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (6)   Fire Escapes: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (7)   Elevators: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (8)   Ground, roof, wall or projecting display signs (Adv.): See Wilkes
County building permit schedule.
      (9)   Awnings, collapsible or fixed: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
      (10)   Moving or wrecking frame buildings: See Wilkes County building
permit schedule.
      (11)   Moving or wrecking major buildings: See Wilkes County building
permit schedule.
   (B)   Plumbing permit and inspection fees.
      (1)   One to 6 fixtures: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (2)   Seven and above plumbing fixtures: See Wilkes County building
permit schedule.
   (C)   Heating and/or air conditioning permit and inspection fees.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Heating: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
         (b)   Air conditioning: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
         (c)   Combination unit: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
      (2)   Commercial or manufacturing:
         (a)   Heating: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
         (b)   Air conditioning: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
         (c)   Combination unit: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
   (D)   Electrical permit and inspection fees.
      (1)   Lighting - 120/240 Volts
         (a)   Three wire – 30- or 60-amp service: See Wilkes County building
permit schedule.
         (b)   Three wire – 100-amp service: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (c)   Above 100-amp service: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (d)   Electric ranges, water heaters, dryers, furnaces, air
conditioners or other electrical equipment when inspected at the time of
original inspection, for each device: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (e)   For each device if inspected separately: See Wilkes County
building permit schedule.
         (f)   Temporary meter and service for construction work: See Wilkes
County building permit schedule.
         (g)   Signs if inspected separate from original inspection: See Wilkes
County building permit schedule.
      (2)   Power service:
         (a)   Sixty-amp or less: See Wilkes County building permit schedule.
         (b)   One-hundred-amp service: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (c)   Two-hundred-amp service: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (d)   Four-hundred-amp service: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (e)   Six-hundred-amp service: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (f)   For each 200-amp additional: See Wilkes County building permit
schedule.
         (g)   Minimum fee for all unclassified installations: See Wilkes
County building permit schedule.
         (h)   All extra inspection trips of either building, plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and/or electrical made necessary by non-compliance
with codes on part of owner or contractor per trip: See Wilkes County building
permit schedule.
(Prior Code, § 5-8)
§ 150.07 CHANGES IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted therein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-9)
§ 150.08 CONTRACTORS; REQUIREMENTS REGARDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating-air conditioning contractor or electrical contractor within
the town shall register at the office of the Inspection Department, giving
name, place of business and type of work and business in which he or she is
engaged.
(Prior Code, § 5-10)
§ 150.09 REGISTERED CONTRACTORS REQUIRED TO GIVE BOND.
   Every person required to register at the office of the Inspection Department
under the preceding section shall also give a good and sufficient bond in the
sum of $1,000, to be approved by the Town Attorney, conditioned upon faithful
performance of duty in doing any work which he or she may have contracted to
do, and to indemnify the town against loss in any manner whatsoever for any
unskillful or negligent work or conduct in the performance of the duties
imposed by the provisions of this chapter or any regulatory code therein
adopted, or any damage to any utility lines, streets or sidewalks in the town,
or for the use of defective or improper material in the work, or for any damage
which may accrue to any person by reason of any default of the contract, or for
the payment of any inspection or other fees required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-11)
§ 150.10 WIRING IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   On and after the date of approval of the North Carolina Builders Code
Commission or its authorized representative, the wiring in all commercial and
industrial buildings built or rewired within the Town of Wilkesboro shall be
placed in metal conduit, and
   (B)   All parts of the code in conflict with this resolution and amendment
are hereby repealed and except as herein modified, the Building Code for the
Town of Wilkesboro remains in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1981)
PUBLIC HOUSING
§ 150.20 APPLICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Public housing shall be considered as where any individual person,
firm or corporation or other entity shall undertake to acquire by purchase,
lease or control of 3 or more houses or combination of houses with 2 or more
families residing in any house, complex or combination of houses under the
control of any 1 person, firm or corporation; for the purpose of leasing or
renting same.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity seeking to build or acquire
through lease, purchase or otherwise, 3 or more units within the corporate
jurisdiction of the Town of Wilkesboro, shall first make application to the
Planning Board for approval of the project, purchase or ownership by management
of any complex or combination of complex, and shall submit the application to
the Planning Board for the Town of Wilkesboro for its action and subsequent to
its action the request shall go to the Town Board for the action of the Town
Board to approve or reject.
   (C)   Prior to the petition being passed on by the Town Board, it shall be
required that the town will require a public hearing and notice thereof shall
be published in the local newspaper, once a week for 4 consecutive weeks prior
to the hearing, and after the public hearing the Town Board by majority vote
shall approve or reject the application.
   (D)   The expense of the notice and hearing shall be at the expense of the
applicant which will be required to be paid in advance to the Town Clerk.
   (E)   No permit for water, sewer or any other permits as required by the
Building Code of the Town of Wilkesboro shall be issued until the final
approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   This chapter shall not affect any previously issued permits, prior to
the adoption of the chapter. If any portion of this chapter or clause herein is
declared void, it shall not affect any other portions.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1984)
CHAPTER 151: INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
Section
   
151.01   Composition of department
   
151.02   Conflicts of interest
   
151.03   Department and inspectors; general powers and duties
   
151.04   Right-of-entry; stop orders
   
151.05   Records and reports
   
151.06   Inspection procedure; certificates of occupancy
   
151.07   Oversight, neglect by inspector
§ 151.01 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Inspection Department shall consist of a Building Inspector, a Plumbing
Inspector, a Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector, an Electrical Inspector and
other inspectors or deputy or assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the
Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may, in its discretion,
designate 1 person to fill any 1 or more or all of these positions. If more
than 1 person is employed as an inspector the Board may designate a member of
the department as the Department Head.
(Prior Code, § 5-12)
§ 151.02 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications thereof unless he or she is the owner
of the building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall
engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the
interests of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-13)
§ 151.03 DEPARTMENT AND INSPECTORS; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise in this chapter, it shall be the
duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the provisions of this
chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted therein, and to make all
inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of this
chapter and the codes are being met, and for those purposes the department and
the inspectors thereof shall have all powers and authority provided by state
law, including the North Carolina State Building Code, the Town Charter, this
code and other ordinances.
   (B)   The North Carolina State Building Code, volume II, General
Construction and the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code shall be
enforced by the Building Inspector. The North Carolina Plumbing Code shall be
enforced by the Plumbing Inspector. The North Carolina Heating Code shall be
enforced by the Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector. The North Carolina State
Electrical Code shall be enforced by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-14)
§ 151.04 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY; STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   Inspectors shall have the right-of-entry on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the regulatory codes adopted in this chapter, at reasonable
hours, for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the regulatory codes, upon presentation of proper credentials.
   (B)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a hazardous
manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other town
ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in a manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector may
order work to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to the
owner of the property or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under which the work
may be resumed.
(Prior Code, § 5-15)
§ 151.05 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Inspection Department, and each inspector, shall keep complete,
permanent and accurate records in convenient form of all applications received,
permits issued, inspections and re-inspections made, and all other work and
activities of the Inspection Department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to
the Mayor and Board of Commissioners and to other agencies, as required.
(Prior Code, § 5-16)
§ 151.06 INSPECTION PROCEDURE; CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.  
   (A)   The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings and structures
and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued, as often as
necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this chapter and
the appropriate codes.
   (B)   When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector, materials and
assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or
inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations;
provided, that no approval shall be based upon reports of organizations unless
reports are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of an
organization.
   (C)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the Inspection
Department and the appropriate inspector at each of the following stages of
construction so that approval may be given before work is continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
      (2)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after building or structure has all
doors hung, fixtures set, and ready for occupancy, but before the building is
occupied.
   (D)   Requests for inspections may be made to the office of the Inspection
Department or to the appropriate inspector. The Inspection Department shall
make inspections as soon as practicable after request is made therefor,
provided the work is ready for inspection at the time the request is made.
   (E)   Re-inspections may be made at the convenience of the inspector. No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be
furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the
building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent. Failure to call for
inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or
structure on the line of any street or other public place, he or she shall
secure a survey of the line of the street or other public place, adjacent to
the property upon which building or structure is to be erected, before
proceeding with construction of the building or structure. It shall be the duty
of the Building Inspector to see that the building does not encroach upon the
street or other public place.
   (G)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition or
enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of
occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Inspection Department has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor. A
temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or portions of a
building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion and occupancy
of the entire building. Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made
by the building owner or his or her agent after all final inspections have been
made for new buildings, or, in the case of existing buildings, after supplying
the information and data necessary to determine compliance with this chapter,
the appropriate regulatory codes and the Zoning Ordinance for the occupancy
intended. The Inspection Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy
when, after examination and inspection, it is found that the building in all
respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter, the regulatory codes and
the Zoning Ordinance for the occupancy intended.
(Prior Code, § 5-17)
§ 151.07 OVERSIGHT, NEGLECT BY INSPECTOR.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code therein adopted.
(Prior Code, § 5-18)
CHAPTER 152: REGULATORY CODES
Section
   
152.01   Applicability of chapter and regulatory codes herein adopted
   
152.02   Building Code adopted
   
152.03   Plumbing Code adopted
   
152.04   Energy Code adopted
   
152.05   Electrical Code adopted
   
152.06   Residential Code adopted
   
152.07   Mechanical Code adopted
   
152.08   Accessibility Code adopted
   
152.09   Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
152.10   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
152.11   Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted
   
152.12   Administration and Enforcement Requirements Code adopted
   
152.13   Amendments to codes herein adopted
   
152.14   Required compliance with codes
   
152.15   Copies of codes to be on file in Town Clerk’s office
§ 152.01 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER AND REGULATORY CODES HEREIN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein
adopted shall apply to the following:
      (1)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to a building or structure;
      (2)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
      (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
      (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
   (B)   The adoption of this chapter and the codes herein adopted by reference
shall constitute a resolution within the meaning of G.S. § 143-138(b), as to
making the regulatory codes herein adopted applicable to dwellings and
outbuildings used in connection therewith and to apartment buildings used
exclusively as the residence of not more than 2 families.
(Prior Code, § 5-19)
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of North Carolina State Building Code within all
municipalities, see G.S. § 143-138, subset. (e)
§ 152.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Building Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, as adopted by
the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Building Code of the town,
to the extent that the code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods
of construction, minimum standards and use of materials in building of
structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise
constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 5-20)
§ 152.03 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Plumbing Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, (North
Carolina State Building Code, Plumbing Code, 2002 edition), as adopted and
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Plumbing Code
for the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-21)
§ 152.04 ENERGY CODE ADOPTED.
   The Energy Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, (North Carolina
State Building Code, Energy Code, 2002 edition) as adopted and published by the
North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Energy Code for the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-22)
§ 152.05 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Electrical Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, (North
Carolina State Building Code, Electrical Code, 2002 edition), as adopted by the
North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Electrical Code for the
town.
(Prior Code, § 5-23)
§ 152.06 RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Residential Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, as adopted
and as published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the
Residential Code in the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-24)
§ 152.07 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Mechanical Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, as adopted
and published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the
Mechanical Code for the town.
§ 152.08 ACCESSIBILITY CODE ADOPTED.
   The Accessibility Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, as
adopted and published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Accessibility Code for the town.
§ 152.09 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The Fuel Gas Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices,, as adopted
and published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Fuel Gas
Code for the town.
§ 152.10 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The Fire Prevention Code, 2002 edition, and all relevant appendices, as
adopted and published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Fire Prevention Code for the town.
§ 152.11 REGULATIONS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES ADOPTED.
   The State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes, 2004
edition, and all relevant appendices, as adopted and published by the North
Carolina Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein as the Regulations for Manufactured Homes for the
town.
§ 152.12 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REQUIREMENTS CODE ADOPTED.
   The Administration and Enforcement Requirements Code, 2002 edition, and all
relevant appendices, as adopted published by the North Carolina Code Council
and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein as the Administration and Enforcement Requirements Code for the town.
§ 152.13 AMENDMENTS TO CODES HEREIN ADOPTED.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are adopted by the Board of Commissioners and filed with the Town Clerk as
provided in
§ 152.15.
(Prior Code, § 5-25)
§ 152.14 REQUIRED COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, or the North Carolina Uniform
Residential Building Code, whichever is applicable, or of both, if both are
applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, “Heating”).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code.
(Prior Code, § 5-26)
§ 152.15 COPIES OF CODES TO BE ON FILE IN TOWN CLERK’S OFFICE.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the amendments.
(Prior Code, § 5-27)
CHAPTER 153: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
153.01   Construction of chapter
   
153.02   Building Inspector; order of condemnation
   
153.03   Duty of owner to comply with order; procedure; recourse
   
153.04   Notice to owner; hearing
   
153.05   Order after hearing; remedy or demolish building
   
153.06   Right to appeal; procedure and effect
   
153.07   Building Inspector report upon noncompliance of owner; action
   
153.08   Order of governing body; assessment of costs
   
153.09   When governing body to give notice of hearing
   
153.10   Presumption of danger arising from order or action of governing body
   
153.99   Violations and penalties
§ 153.01 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other
provision of this code or other ordinance affecting the same subject matter.
(Prior Code, § 5-28)
§ 153.02 BUILDING INSPECTOR; ORDER OF CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition as to be dangerous to life,
health or other property, or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a public
nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   The declaration by the Building Inspector shall constitute an order of
condemnation for the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction, overloaded
structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire or any other hazardous
conditions or circumstances.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall have authority, and it shall be his or
her duty, to declare all those buildings or structures unsafe and to take
appropriate action to have the conditions corrected or removed.
(Prior Code, § 5-29)
§ 153.03 DUTY OF OWNER TO COMPLY WITH ORDER; PROCEDURE; RECOURSE.
   Whenever any building or structure has been condemned by the Building
Inspector, and the existence of the building or structure in a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and determined by
the Building Inspector or, upon appeal from or report by the Building Inspector
as hereafter provided, by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners to be dangerous
to life, health or other property, or is in a condition as to constitute a fire
or safety hazard or a public nuisance, the owner of the building or structure
shall be required to demolish and remove the same and remedy conditions under
the regulations and procedures herein provided; and in the event the owner
fails or refuses so to do within the time directed by the Building Inspector or
by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners, as hereinafter provided, the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners, may, in their judgment, cause the same to be demolished
and removed or other steps taken as they may find to be necessary to suppress
and abate the nuisance and remove the fire or safety hazard and the danger to
life, health or other property found to exist, and specially assess the cost
and expense of doing work against the lot or parcel of land on which the
building or structure is located.
(Prior Code, § 5-30)
§ 153.04 NOTICE TO OWNER; HEARING.
   Before any building or structure may be ordered to be demolished and removed
as provided in
§ 153.03, the Building Inspector shall notify the owner thereof, in writing, by
certified or registered mail to the last known address of the owner, or by
personal service of notice by the Building Inspector or his or her assistant or
by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that the building or structure is in
a condition as appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or dangerous to
life, health or other property, or to be a public nuisance, and that a hearing
will be held before the Building Inspector at a designated place at a time not
less than 10 days after the date of the written notice, at which time and place
the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel upon all legal
or factual questions relating to the matter, and shall be entitled to offer
that as he or she may desire which is relevant or material to the questions
sought to be determined or the remedies sought to be effected. If the name or
whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence, be discovered, the notice
herein referred to shall be considered properly and adequately served if a copy
thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question at
least 10 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing and a notice of the
hearing is published 1 time in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town at least 1 week prior to the date fixed for the hearing. The notice shall
state the address or location of the building or structure and the time, place
and purpose of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 5-31)
§ 153.05 ORDER AFTER HEARING; REMEDY OR DEMOLISH BUILDING.
   If, upon hearing, the Building Inspector shall find that the building or
structure in question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as
to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or
other property, or is a public nuisance, he or she shall make an order in
writing, directed to the owner of the building or structure, requiring the
owner to remedy the conditions so found to exist by demolishing and removing
the building or structure or taking other steps as may be necessary to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, within a period, not less than 60 days, as
the Building Inspector prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 5-32)
§ 153.06 RIGHT TO APPEAL; PROCEDURE AND EFFECT.
   The owner of any building or structure ordered by the Building Inspector to
be demolished and removed, or who is directed by the Building Inspector to take
any other steps to abate a nuisance or remove hazards found by the Building
Inspector to exist, shall have the right of appeal from orders to the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners; provided, that the owner gives notice of appeal to the
Building Inspector at the time of the hearing at which the order is made, or
within 10 days after the order is made, files with the Building Inspector a
written notice of appeal. Notice of appeal shall state the grounds therefor.
Unless an appeal is taken within the time and the manner herein prescribed, the
action of the Building Inspector shall be deemed final, subject only to action
as the Mayor and Board of Commissioners may take as herein elsewhere provided.
Where an appeal has been properly taken and notice thereof given in accordance
with the provisions of this section, it shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector to report the same to the Town Clerk, who shall cause the matter to
be placed on the agenda for action by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners at
their next regular meeting. The Mayor and Board of Commissioners shall have the
right to continue the hearing of the appeal from time to time, in their
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 5-33)
§ 153.07 BUILDING INSPECTOR REPORT UPON NON-COMPLIANCE OF OWNER; ACTION.
   In the event the owner does not appeal from the final order or direction of
the Building Inspector requiring that the building or structure be demolished
and removed or the taking of other steps as may be required to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards, and fails or refuses to comply with the order
and direction, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to file a written
report thereof with the Town Clerk, who shall cause the report to be placed on
the agenda for action by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners at their next
ensuing regular meeting or to some subsequent meeting to which they may
continue the same. The Building Inspector shall mail a copy of the report by
certified or registered mail to the owner at his or her last known address, or
have a copy thereof delivered to the owner. This report shall specify the date
of the meeting of the Board of Commissioners for which the matter will be
docketed for action.
(Prior Code, § 5-35)
§ 153.08 ORDER OF GOVERNING BODY;  ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In all cases referred to in this chapter which reach the Mayor and Board of
Commissioners for action, either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of
the Building Inspector or upon report of the Building Inspector that the owner
fails or refuses to comply with his or her order or direction, they shall hear
the matter, and if they find and determine that the building or structure in
question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as to constitute
a fire or safety hazard, or to be dangerous to life, health or other property,
or is a public nuisance, and that the owner of the building or structure has
failed or refused to abate the nuisance and has failed or refused to have the
building or structure demolished and removed or has failed or refuse to take
other steps as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards
found to exist, they may cause the demolition and removal of the building or
structure to be done, or effect other remedies as may be necessary to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards, and specially assess the cost of the work
against the lot or parcel of land on which the building or structure was
situated; and the assessment shall constitute a specific lien upon the lot or
parcel of land, which may be enforced by an action instituted in the name of
the town in the nature of an action to foreclose a mortgage as provided by G.S.
§§ 105-374 or 105-375 in the case of ad valorem taxes and local improvement
assessments.
(Prior Code, § 5-35)
§ 153.09 WHEN GOVERNING BODY TO GIVE NOTICE OF HEARING.
   In cases in which the Building Inspector has been unable to give to the
owner actual notice of hearing in the manner as provided in this chapter, and
has given notice by posting and publishing the same as authorized in §
153.04, and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or
direction of the Building Inspector to demolish and remove the building or
structure, or take other remedial action as will remove the hazards, and the
case is referred to the Mayor and Board of Commissioners for action, they
shall, before taking action, cause to be posted on the outside of the building
or structure in question at least 10 days prior to the date fixed for the
hearing, and published 1 time in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town at least 1 week prior to the date fixed for the hearing, a written notice
stating the address or location of the building or structure involved and the
time, place and purpose of the hearing, and other information as they may deem
advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-36)
§ 153.10 PRESUMPTION OF DANGER ARISING FROM ORDER OR ACTION OF GOVERNING BODY.
   In all cases in which the Mayor and Board of Commissioners under authority
of this chapter, cause the demolition and removal of any building or structure
to be carried out, or direct other remedial steps to be taken as may be
necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard
and danger to life, health or other property, created and maintained by the
continued presence of the building or structure in a condition as is found to
exist, constitute a clear and present danger amounting to a situation of
emergency involving the public health, safety and general welfare, which
requires entry upon private property for the summary abatement and removal of
danger, in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 5-37)
§ 153.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners made by virtue and in pursuance of this chapter, and any
person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided
by G.S. § 14-4 for the violation of municipal ordinances, and every day a
person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any final order or
direction of the Building Inspector or Mayor and Board of Commissioners made by
virtue and in pursuance of this chapter shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-38)
CHAPTER 154: NORTH CAROLINA MODEL HOUSING CODE (MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS)
Section
Minimum Housing Standards
   
154.01   Findings; purpose; authority
   
154.02   Scope
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Office of Housing Inspector created; powers and duties
   
154.05   Inspections
   
154.06   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
154.07   Dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
154.08   Structural standards
   
154.09   Plumbing standards
   
154.10   Heating standards
   
154.11   Electrical standards
   
154.12   Ventilation standards
   
154.13   Space, use and location standards
   
154.14   Safe and sanitary maintenance standards
   
154.15   Insect, rodent and infestation control standards
   
154.16   Rooming house standards
Dwellings Not in Compliance with Standards
   
154.30   Dwellings not in compliance; not unfit for human habitation
   
154.31   Procedure after hearing; order
   
154.32   Failure to comply with order
   
154.33   Service of complaints and orders
   
154.34   Appeals
   
154.35   Alternative remedies
   
154.36   Conflict with other provisions
   
154.37   Repeal and reenactment of existing housing code
   
154.38   Validity
 
   
154.98   Violations
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 154.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of
fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human
habitation, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established herein and
therefore have present 1 or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety and general welfare. These conditions, if not corrected, can
lead to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings, which render them unfit
for human habitation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This section is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the corporate limits of the town.
Portable, mobile or demountable buildings or structures, including trailers,
manufactured homes and mobile homes when used or intended for use for housing
within the jurisdiction, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this
section. This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation and does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established for the construction,
repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities except as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Board of Commissioners to be a health or
safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children
or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
conditions.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED STRUCTURE.  Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past 2-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
      BASEMENT.  A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
      CELLAR.  A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED DWELLING.  A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
      DWELLING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their haborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Town Manager to carry out
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than 2 dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over 1 year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the town, county or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing 1 or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to 3 or more
persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of, the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage
and ashes, and the term shall include, but not be limited to: paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
   (B)   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING
UNIT or PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.04 OFFICE OF HOUSING INSPECTOR CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the office of Housing Inspector is hereby created.
   (B)   The Housing Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Manager, and
shall have powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate
the purposes and provisions of this chapter, including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
      (1)   Investigations.  To investigate the dwelling and building
conditions in the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit
for human habitation and dangerous, being guided in examination of dwellings
and buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Oaths, witnesses and the like.  To administer oaths and
affirmations and to examine witnesses and receive evidence.
      (3)   Right of entry.  To enter upon and within premises and dwellings
for the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided that
entries shall be made in a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience
to the persons in possession.
      (4)   Warrants, citations and the like. To swear criminal warrants, issue
civil citations and to take other actions as may be necessary to carry out the
enforcement procedures of this chapter.
      (5)   Delegation of functions and the like. To delegate any of his or her
functions and powers under this chapter to officers and agents as he or she may
designate.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.05 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units on premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit and its premises
at all reasonable times for the purposes of inspection, examination and survey.
Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof, or
his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or dwelling
unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.06 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least 5 residents of the town charging that any dwelling is
unfit for human habitation or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector (on
his or her own motion) that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the
Housing Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for those charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner and
parties in interest in the dwellings a complaint stating the charges in that
respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing
Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the town therein
fixed not less than 10 days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Housing Inspector. Upon the issuance of a complaint and
notice of hearing pursuant to this section, the Inspector may cause the filing
of a notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing
attached thereto, in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Wilkes
County, to be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the indexing
procedures of the North Carolina General Statutes. The Inspector shall cause a
copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the owners and parties in
interest in the dwelling at the time of filing in accordance with G.S. § 160A-
445, as applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of any order issued
based upon a complaint and hearing, the Inspector shall direct the Clerk of
Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.07 DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for human
habitation if he or she finds that any 1 of the following conditions exist in a
dwelling:
   (A)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or buckle
to an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe;
   (B)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
show 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
   (C)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
   (D)   Damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling unsafe;
   (E)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town;
   (F)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
   (G)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
   (H)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities to
the extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town;
   (I)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required by
this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard; and
   (J)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or
if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.08 STRUCTURAL STANDARDS.
   In addition to the 10 conditions stated in §
154.07, any 1 of which renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the
Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation
if he or she finds that a dwelling fails to fully comply with 7 or more of the
following enumerated standards of dwelling fitness:
   (A)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle,
shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or
cracks which might admit rodents.
   (B)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
   (E)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall
be provided.
   (F)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets
and hallways shall be furnished of suitable materials which will, by use of
reasonable household methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be
maintained in a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable
privacy between various spaces.
   (G)   Weatherization. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls,
floors and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed
and maintained so as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in a condition or location
as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors
on the ground.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.09 PLUMBING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and an adequate supply of both
cold water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply. For the purposes of
this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the
water supply has been cut off because of non-payment of the water bill or
otherwise or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable
water to the tap.
   (B)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the
Town Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
   (C)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet and
tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.10 HEATING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing heat in accordance
with either division (B) or (C) below. The facilities shall be maintained in a
state of good repair and good working order.
   (B)   Every central or electric heating system shall be of sufficient
capacity so as to heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in every dwelling to which it is connected with a minimum
temperature of 70° F measured at a point 3 feet above the floor during average
winter conditions.
   (C)   Where a central or electric heating system is not provided, each
dwelling shall be provided with sufficient electrical receptacles, fireplaces,
chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances may be connected so as
to heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments with a
minimum temperature of 70°F measured 3 feet above the floor during average
winter conditions.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.11 ELECTRICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Wiring. Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and
convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least 2 floor or
wall type electrical convenience receptacles, connected in a manner as
determined by the Town Electric Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least 1 supplied
ceiling or wall type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each habitable room shall
contain at least 3 floor or wall type electric convenience receptacles.
   (B)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling
shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural light
is not sufficient.
   (C)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the Town Electric Code.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.12 VENTILATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least 1 window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured between
stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of a room.
Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any room and
light obstructions are located less than 5 feet from the window and extend to a
level above that of the ceiling of the room, a window shall not be deemed to
face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included as contributing to the
required minimum total window area. Whenever the only window in a room is a
skylight type window in the top of a room, the total window area of skylight
shall equal at least 15% of the total floor area of the room.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least 1 window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or another device as will adequately ventilate the room.
The total openable window area in every habitable room, shall be equal to at
least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window size
as required, or shall have other approved equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Every bathroom equipped with more than 1 water closet compartment
shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.13 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the Town Residential Building
Code. (Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area.
However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling may count for not more
than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of
any room where the ceiling height is less than 4½ feet shall not be considered
as a part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room to
determine maximum permissible occupancy.) Every dwelling unit shall contain at
least 150 square feet of habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least
100 square feet of additional habitable area for each of the next 3 occupants,
and at least 75 square feet of additional habitable floor area for each
additional occupant. In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every
room occupied for sleeping purposes by 1 occupant shall contain at least 70
square feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by
more than 1 occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for
each occupant 12 years of age and over, and at least 35 square feet of floor
area for each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least 1/2 of the floor area of every habitable room
shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet and 6 inches.
   (C)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for a habitable room; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.14 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS. 
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather tight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance of penetration of
moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather tight, water tight and rodent
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor surface
and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained
so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be
easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Smoke detector systems. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with an
approved listed smoke detector installed in accordance with the manufacturer's
recommendations and listing. When activated, the detector shall provide an
audible alarm. The detector shall be tested in accordance with and meet the
requirements of UL 217, Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.15 INSECT, RODENT AND INFESTATION CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects
every dwelling shall have:
      (1)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space, except that sliding doors, doors
with self closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device with
an opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply for
any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an operable
and installed heating and air conditioning system.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be free
of any infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of a
dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than 1 dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination whenever his or
her dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in 2 or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing 2 or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with
approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by town
ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of the dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with an
approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage
disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an incinerator
unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the structure for the use of the
occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage container as
required by town ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.16 ROOMING HOUSE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum
standards and requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming
houses, and to every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or
lets to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as
provided in the following divisions:
      (1)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least 1 water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each 4 rooms within a rooming house wherever the facilities are shared. All
facilities shall be located within the residence building served, shall be
directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall not be more than
1 story removed from any of the persons sharing the facilities. Every lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all
times. The required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
      (2)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by 1 occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than 1 occupant
shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant 12 years
of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each occupant
under 12 years of age.
      (3)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
      (4)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
   (B)   Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling then that dwelling has
failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard. For example, in regard to
§
154.09(A), if all standards are met in a dwelling except that a supply of hot
water is not provided then the dwelling fails to fully comply with §
154.09(A).
(Ord. passed - -)
DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS
§ 154.30 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE; NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling
fails to fully comply with 1 or more but less than 7 of the above enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness, the dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for
human habitation and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as
provided for in this chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each
failure of noncompliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of
this chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement
procedures, civil or criminal or both, of §
10.99.
   (B)   In making the determination as described in this section, the Housing
Inspector shall not be required to make notice and hold the hearing as called
for in
§ 154.06, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the determination of the
severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not clear to the Housing
Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.31 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth above, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling
as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector’s standards for closing
dwellings; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
dwelling. If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation but is not
in full compliance with 1 or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he may proceed with the enforcement procedures of §
10.99 of the Town Code of Ordinances, civil or criminal or both.
   (B)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (A) or (A)(2)
above that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or demolished,
under the provisions of the section, notice of the order shall be given by
first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring
dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for those
notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of notice shall be given
before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing.
The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the certifications
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an organization that has
filed a written request for notices may raise the issue of failure to mail
notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order requiring the Inspector to wait
45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.32 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed; or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling, a placard
with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished; or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling, a placard
with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
shall not be exercised until the Board of Commissioners shall have, by
ordinance, ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose
of this chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the
Housing Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which
property or properties shall be described in the chapter. No ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing
Code. For the purposes of this subsection, a period of 90 days following the
date of the Housing Inspector's order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. This chapter shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. § 160A-443. If the dwelling is removed or
demolished by the Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the materials of the
dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances found in or
attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the
cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited
in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured in a manner
directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the persons found
to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate dwelling, the
Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove the
occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any persons occupying the dwelling. The Clerk of Superior Court shall
issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a
certain time, date and place not to exceed 10 days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as
provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor,
and if on its return it appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing
the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy of an ordinance adopted by
the Board of Commissioners pursuant to division (B) authorizing the Housing
Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the magistrate shall
enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that all persons be
removed. The judgement ordering that the dwelling be vacated shall be enforced
in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. §
42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of that judgement may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a
dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of a summary
ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division, unless the occupant was served
with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary ejectment
proceeding that the Board of Commissioners has ordered the Housing Inspector to
proceed to exercise his or her duties under divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this
section to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.33 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by an inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also
be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered
or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned
by the post office within 10 days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.34 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this chapter provides for different rules or procedures,
the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall follow its
rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for this
function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be in writing and shall
be taken within 10 days from the rendering of the decision or service of the
order by filing with the Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the
filing of any notice of appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the decision
appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing
Inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or
her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal
is from a decision of the Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to
do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement
until the hearing by the Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the
Board after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of
facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the
appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement would cause imminent peril
to life or property. In that case the requirement shall not be suspended except
by a restraining order, which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less
than 1 day’s written notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a
court of record upon petition made pursuant to division (E) of this section.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of 4/5 of the
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or
order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon
appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from
carrying out the strict letter of the chapter, to adapt the application of the
chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon the petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court's calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter the final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.35 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise nor shall enforcement of 1 remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of the Code of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved or changed in
occupancy without a Certificate of Occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the dwelling or dwelling unit until
the time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation. In
addition, in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary
investigation as provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation,
that a dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes
that the occupancy of the dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril
to life or property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the dwelling or dwelling unit until
a time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any ordinance or
code adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain,
correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or
to prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the
dwelling.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.36 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town's jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.37 REPEAL AND REENACTMENT OF EXISTING HOUSING CODE.
   The rewriting of this chapter in part carries forth by reenactment some of
the provisions of the existing Housing Code of the Town of Wilkesboro and it is
not intended to repeal but rather to reenact and continue in force existing
provisions so that all rights and liabilities that have been accrued are
preserved and may be enforced. All provisions of the Housing Code which are not
reenacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits at law or in equity and/or all
prosecutions resulting from the violation of the Housing Code in effect, which
are now pending in any of the courts of this state or of the United States,
shall not be abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption of this chapter, but
shall be prosecuted to their finality the same as if this chapter had not been
adopted; any and all violations of the existing chapter, prosecutions for which
have not been instituted may be filed and prosecuted; nothing in this chapter
shall be so construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation or
prosecution now pending and/or which may have been instituted or prosecuted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.38 VALIDITY.
   (A)   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners
hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section,
subsection, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any 1 or
more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
   (B)   All ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this chapter are
hereby repealed to the extent of conflict.
   (C)   This chapter shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.98 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in the order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to
§ 154.31, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 155: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Findings; authority
   
155.04   Scope; jurisdiction
   
155.05   General definitions and interpretations
   
155.06   Special definitions and interpretations
   
155.07   Office of non-residential building or structure standards inspector
created; powers and duties
   
155.08   Duties and responsibilities of the owner
   
155.09   Duties and responsibilities of the occupant
   
155.10   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
155.11   Validity
   
155.12   Conflict with other provisions
   
155.13   Amendments
   
155.14   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
   
155.15   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
   
155.16   Investigation
   
155.17   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
155.18   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
155.19   Service of complaints and orders of inspector
   
155.20   Appeal of order of inspector; finality if not appealed
   
155.21   Failure to comply with order of inspector
   
155.22   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
155.23   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
155.24   Action by Council upon abandonment of intent to repair
   
155.25   Demolition of non-residential buildings by owner
   
155.26   Inspections
   
155.27   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
155.28   Violations
   
155.29   Procedure is alternative
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Non-Residential Building or Structure
Standards" for the town, and may be cited as such, and will be referred to
hereinafter as "this chapter."
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method to evaluate whether non-residential buildings
or structures fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and
safety established by the town. The minimum standards address conditions that
are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or
demolition of such buildings or structures. The provisions of this chapter are
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law including
the current editions of standard codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.03 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A-439, it is hereby found and declared
that there exist in the town non-residential buildings or structures which are
unsafe and especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because
of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay,
unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
town non-residential buildings or structures which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for non-residential buildings or structures
fitness as established herein and, therefore, have present 1 or more conditions
which are inimical to thepublic health, safety and general welfare. Such
conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation of
non-residential buildings or structures which render them unsafe and especially
dangerous to life.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.04 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing non-residential
buildings or structures and to all non-residential buildings or structures
hereafter constructed within the corporate town limits as now or hereafter
established.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.05 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically defined in §
155.06, words used in the non-residential building or structure standards shall
have their respective customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of
these regulations certain words, terms or phrases used herein are interpreted
and defined as follows:
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (C)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (D)   The words "shall" and "will" always indicate MANDATORY. The words
"should" and "may" always indicate OPTIONAL.
   (E)   The word "lot" includes the words "plot" and/or "parcel".
   (F)   The word "building" includes the word "structure". The word "person"
includes a "firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company,
corporation and/or individual". The word "use" includes the terms "arranged,
designed, and/or intended" for a use, activity and/or purpose.
   (G)   The term "Board of Adjustment" shall always indicate the BOARD OF
ADJUSTMENT OF THE TOWN OF WILKESBORO, NORTH CAROLINA as created and appointed
by the Town Council of the Town of Wilkesboro.
   (H)   The term "Town Council" shall always indicate the TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
TOWN OF WILKESBORO, NORTH CAROLINA.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.06 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term BUILDING shall
be construed to include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it shall be construed
as if followed by the term or part thereof.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted. Building Code: The North Carolina State Building
Code.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD (See also NUISANCE). Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the non-residential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
Non-Residential Building or Structures Standards Inspector: The person
delegated as such by the Town Council of the town. (Hereinafter referred to as
"the inspector".)
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the State of North Carolina, or the
ordinances of the town; or
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot; or
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists; or
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a non-residential
building or structure or a part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building or structure is actually occupied
or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a nonresidential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for non-residential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.)
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the owner
or occupant.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least 1 year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least 1 year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.07 OFFICE OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS INSPECTOR
CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the office of Non-Residential Building or Structures Standards
Inspector, (herein called "inspector"), is hereby created.
   (B)   The inspector shall be appointed by the Town Council and shall have
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provision of this chapter, including without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the non-residential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to such non-residential buildings or structures.
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence.
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      (4)   To delegate any of his functions and powers under this chapter to
such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.08 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner to maintain all non-
residential buildings or structures in accordance with all standards for non-
residential buildings or structures fitness as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.09 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the non-
residential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which
would render any part of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which
would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required,
or from maintaining his building or premises in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his control.
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the non-residential
use under the control of the occupant.
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.10 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with
whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All
unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners
to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance
conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.11 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter. The Town Council hereby declares that
it would have passed this chapter and each section, division, clause and phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any 1 or more sections, divisions
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.12 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for thepromotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina State Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.13 AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Council may, from time to time amend, supplement, or change the
provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such amendment shall be by
ordinance of the Council.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.14 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life. The Town Council has determined that unsafe and especially
dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of Wilkesboro, that such unsafe and especially
dangerous buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the owners of
such unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall immediately
remedy the unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or demolish such
buildings or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the inspector if the inspector finds that any 1 of the
following conditions exists in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction.
      (6) Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
      (11)   Any violation of the State Fire Prevention Code which constitutes
a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
      (12)   Any abandoned non-residential building or structure which is found
to be a health or safety hazard by the inspector as a result of the attraction
of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to conditions 1-12 enumerated in division (B) above, any
one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the inspector shall
determine that a non-residential building or structure is unsafe if he finds
that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any 5 or more of the
following enumerated standards of building and premises fitness. Full
compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated standard is not
complied with by a particular building and premises, then that building and
premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
   (D)   General.
      (1)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash, or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
      (2)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
      (3)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
      (4)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
      (5)   Building and premise surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
      (6)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or not
properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
   (E)   Appurtenances.
      (1)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
      (2)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
      (3)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated or
painted.
      (4)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary
and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not to cause a
hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
      (5)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained in
a state of good repair.
      (6)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
   (F)   Structural.
      (1)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
      (2)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or other
parts or appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not
fall or collapse.
      (5)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the
wall unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of
the wall.
   (G)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
      (1)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (2)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
      (3)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
   (H)   Egress.
      (1)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
      (2)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose
mullions.
      (3)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could be
dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to use
the premises, from falling or shattering.
      (4)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, unless specifically approved by the inspector for enclosure.
   (I)   Drainage. All yards and premises shall be properly graded and
maintained so as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.15 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
   In any case where the inspector determines that a non-residential building
or structure fails to fully comply with 1 or more but less than 5 of the
standards of non-residential buildings or structures fitness set forth in § 
155.14(C), such building or structure shall not be found to be unsafe and shall
not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this chapter
for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of non-compliance,
however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and shall
subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or
criminal or both, of § 155.29. In such case the inspector shall notify the
owner as provided for in §
155.19.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.16 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to the inspector that any nonresidential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by the Town Council, the
inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If entry upon the
premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry shall be made
pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S.
§ 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or
other person legally in possession of the premises.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.17 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
minimum standards, the inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the nonresidential building or structure a
complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a
place within the county scheduled not less than 10 days nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the inspector.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.18 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the inspector determines that the
nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that
the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards as
established by the Town Council, the inspector shall state in writing the
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner to
take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
   (B)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the
nonresidential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with
the minimum standards established by the Council or to vacate and close the
nonresidential building or structure for any use.
   (C)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Town Council determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the nonresidential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order require that the nonresidential building or structure be
vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established by this chapter.
   (D)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.19 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS OF INSPECTOR.
   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector pursuant to this chapter shall
be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail so
long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is refused, but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within 10 days after the mailing. If regular mail
is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the
whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other
persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least once no later than the time that personal service would be
required under this section. When service is made by publication, a notice of
the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.20 APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
155.18 may appeal from the order to the Town Board of Adjustment by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the inspector and to the Town Clerk within 10
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Board
of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the inspector shall be
final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable time
after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke
the order. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the inspector shall
have the remedies provided in G.S. § 160A-446.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
Town Council may adopt an ordinance ordering the inspector to proceed to
effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular property
or properties that the inspector found to be jeopardizing the health or safety
of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the inspector may cause the building or structure to be repaired,
altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The inspector may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any nonresidential building or structure so
closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for any use;
the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful." Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure, the Town Council may adopt an ordinance
ordering the inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this section
with respect to the particular property or properties that the inspector found
to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or members of the
general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a
nonresidential building or structure until the owner has first been given a
reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the minimum standards
established by the Town Council. The property or properties shall be described
in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register
of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner or owners in
the grantor index. Following adoption of an ordinance, the inspector may cause
the building or structure to be removed or demolished.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.22 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Article 10, Chapter 160A.
   (B)   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the town limits except for the owner's primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this subdivision is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building or structure and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the Town Council to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.23 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building or structure, the inspector may file a civil action in the name of the
town to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying the nonresidential building or
structure. The clerk of superior court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not
to exceed 10 days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The
summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons
shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to
have been duly served and if at the hearing the inspector produces a certified
copy of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to §
155.21 of this chapter to vacate the occupied nonresidential building or
structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the
nonresidential building or structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same
manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An
appeal from any judgment entered under this division by the magistrate maybe
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a
nonresidential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner may not be in
the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division unless
the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding, that the governing body has ordered the inspector
to proceed to exercise his duties under §
155.21 of this chapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
nonresidential building or structure.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.24 ACTION BY COUNCIL UPON ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   (A)   If the Town Council has adopted an ordinance or the inspector has
issued an order requiring the building or structure to be repaired or vacated
and closed and the building or structure has been vacated and closed for a
period of 2 years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the Town Council may make
findings that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter,
or improve the building or structure and that the continuation of the building
or structure in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, and welfare of the municipality in that it would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, or
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area. Upon such findings, the Town Council may, after the expiration of the
2-year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner,
setting forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50%of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner either
repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days; or
      (2)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (B)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of 5 years before the
Town Council may take action under this division. The ordinance shall be
recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.25 DEMOLITION OF NON- RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BY OWNER.
   Where a non-residential building or structure is under the jurisdiction of
this chapter, the building may be demolished by the owner provided that the
following requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner shall obtain a demolition permit from the Building
Inspections Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections shall be
properly closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building shall be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes, and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all non-residential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every non-residential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a non-residential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in non-residential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he may make inspections when he has
reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure or
premises.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.27 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the inspector finds any defects in a non-residential building, or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with applicable state
and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his duty to notify the owner or
occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or failure to
comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the
defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he owns.
Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day any
violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.28 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building or structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
155.18, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.29 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinance or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for
herein, any violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator
to the penalties and remedies as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-7-2014)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
   Editor’s note: The Town of Wilkesboro Zoning Code, codified as Chapter 156
of this code, is kept as a separate volume and is available for inspection upon
request at the Town Clerk’s Office during normal business hours.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   STREET CLOSINGS
         
II.   FRANCHISES; MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE I: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
-               10-20-1981  The alley shown on J.D. Wilson’s map
-               11-2-1981   A portion of Brook street, a portion of Wilkes
                            Street and the opening of New Wilkes Street
                            A portion of Brook Street, a portion of Wilkes
-               4-5-1982    Street and an opening of a portion of New Wilkes
                            Street
-               9-13-1982   A portion of North Street and Bridge Street
-               8-6-1990    A section of Winston Street
-               8-6-1990    A section of Ridge Street
-               6-7-1993    A section of South Spruce Street
-               1-3-1995    An undedicated, unopened and abandoned street in
                            the Forest Hills subdivision
-               12-2-1996   An unopened section of Bridge Street
-               2-2-2004    A portion of Shady Lane in the Forest Hills
                            subdivision
-               4-5-2004    An unopened portion of Shady Lane in the Forest
                            Hills subdivision
Res. 2012-19    10-1-2012   Temporarily close North Bridge Street
-               11-5-2012   A 20-foot unopened alley from Pine Street to Cherry
                            Street
Res. 2013-05    4-8-2013    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2013-08    5-6-2013    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2014-10    3-3-2014    Temporarily close South Collegiate Drive
Res. 2014-12    4-7-2014    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2014-14    4-7-2014    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2014-18    7-7-2014    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2014-19    8-4-2014    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2014-24    9-8-2014    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2015-03    2-2-2015    Temporarily close South Collegiate Drive
Res. 2015-07    4-3-2015    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2015-12    7-6-2015    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2015-13    7-6-2015    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2015-19    9-14-2015   Temporarily close Main Street (NC Hwy 268/181)
                            between Corporation Street and Woodland Boulevard
Res. 2016-14    8-1-2016    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
2017-01         2-6-2016    Closing an unnamed 60 foot right-of-way within the
                            corporate limits of the town
Res. 2017-03    2-6-2017    Temporarily close a portion of South Collegiate
                            Drive
                            Intent to close an unopened alleyway, South
                            Moravian Street between College Street and Church
Res. 2017-10  3-6-2017    Street; South Brook Street between college Street
                            and church Street; and College Street from Wilkes
                            Street to South Brook Street
Res. 2017-15    4-3-2017    Closing that portion of College Street from Wilkes
                            Street to South Brook Street
Res. 2017-16    4-3-2017    Closing South Moravian Street
Res. 2017-17    4-3-2017    Closing the unopened 20 foot alley
                            Temporarily close Wilkesboro Open Air Market, the
Res. 2017-25    8-7-2017    town-owned parking lot, a portion of South Bridge
                            Street, North Bridge Street, Broad Street, and Main
                            Street
Res. 2017-26    8-7-2017    Temporarily closing Main Street (NC Hwy 268/18)
                            between Corporation Street and Woodland Boulevard
Res. 2017-27    8-7-2017    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2017-28    8-7-2017    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2017-32    9-11-2017   Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2017-41    11-6-2017   Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2018-03    2-5-2018    Temporarily close a portion of South Collegiate
                            Drive
Res. 2018-09    3-5-2018    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
                            Temporarily close Carolina West Wireless Community
Res. 2018-14    4-9-2018    Commons and Wilkes Communications Pavilion, and
                            North Bridge Street right-of-way
                            Temporarily close Carolina West Wireless Community
                            Commons and Wilkes Communications Pavilion, the
Res. 2018-15    4-9-2018    town-owned parking lot, a portion of South Bridge
                            Street, North Bridge Street, Broad Street, and Main
                            Street
Res. 2018-16    4-9-2018    Temporarily close Main Street between Corporation
                            Street and Woodland Boulevard
Res. 2018-20    5-7-2018    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2018-23    8-23-2018   Temporarily close North Bridge Street
Res. 2018-30    9-10-2018   Temporarily close North Bridge Street
                            Temporarily close the Carolina West Wireless
Res. 2018-34    11-5-2018   Community Commons and the North Bridge Street
                            right-of-way
Res. 2019-08    3-4-2019    Temporarily close a portion of South Collegiate
                            Drive
Res. 2019-11    5-6-2019    Temporarily close North Bridge Street
                            Temporarily close North Bridge Street and reserve
Res. 2019-14    6-3-2019    usage of the Carolina West Wireless Community
                            Commons
                            Temporarily close North Bridge Street and reserve
Res. 2019-16    6-3-2019    usage of the Carolina West Wireless Community
                            Commons
                            Temporarily close North Bridge Street and the Tyson
Res. 2019-17    6-3-2019    Greenway Trailhead, and reserve usage of the
                            Carolina West Wireless Community Commons
Res. 2020-03    2-3-2020    Temporarily close a portion of South Collegiate
                            Drive
Res. 2020-07    4-6-2020    Temporarily close North Bridge Street and the Tyson
                            Greenway Trailhead
                            Temporarily close North Bridge Street and the Tyson
Res. 2020-08    4-6-2020    Greenway Trailhead, and reserve usage of the
                            Carolina West Wireless Community Commons
                            Temporarily close North Bridge Street and reserve
Res. 2020-09    4-6-2020    usage of the Carolina West Wireless Community
                            Commons
Res. 2020-19    9-14-2020   Temporarily close public right-of-way associated
                            with North Bridge Street
Res. 2021-06    4-12-2021   Temporarily close North Bridge Street and North
                            Street, and Tyson Greenway Trailhead
                            Temporarily close North Street, North Bridge
Res. 2021-07    4-12-2021   Street, Tyson Greenway Trailhead, and reserve usage
                            of Carolina West Wireless Community Commons
                            Temporarily close North Bridge Street and provide
Res. 2021-11    6-7-2021    reserved usage of Carolina West Wireless Community
                            Commons
Res. 2021-13    6-7-2021    Temporarily close South Collegiate Drive from 1328
                            South Collegiate Drive to its terminus
Res. 2021-20    8-2-2021    Temporarily close vehicular access for two portions
                            of Industrial Drive
Res. 2021-21    8-2-2021    Temporarily close access to North Bridge Street
                            public right-of- way
                            Temporarily close the parking area in front of the
Res. 2021-29    10-4-2021   Call Family Distillery on Industrial Drive and the
                            portion of Ithaca Drive bordering the Distillery
                            Temporarily close the Carolina West Wireless
Res. 2021-31    10-4-2021   Community Commons and the public right-of-way
                            associated with North Bridge Street
Res. 2021-32    10-4-2021   Temporarily close vehicular access to North Bridge
                            Street public right-of-way
Res. 2022-03    2-7-2022    Temporarily close South Collegiate Drive from 1328
                            Collegiate Drive to its terminus
Res. 2022-07    4-4-2022    Temporarily close vehicular access for two portions
                            of Industrial Drive
                            Temporarily close vehicular access to the Carolina
Res. 2022-10    4-4-2022    West Wireless Community Commons, North Bridge
                            Street and North Street public rights-of-way
                            Temporarily close vehicular access to the Carolina
Res. 2022-11    4-4-2022    West Wireless Community Commons, North Bridge
                            Street and North Street public rights-of-way, and
                            Tyson Greenway Trailhead
                            Temporarily close vehicular access to the Carolina
Res. 2022-12    4-4-2022    West Wireless Community Commons, North Bridge
                            Street and North Street public rights-of-way, and
                            Tyson Greenway Trailhead
Res. 2022-19    6-6-2022    Temporarily close vehicular access to North Bridge
                            Street public right-of-way
2024-07         1-6-2025    Closing Factory Street between Church Street and a
                            dead end leading into Tyson Foods Plant
                           
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES; MISCELLANEOUS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     2-25-  Granting to WKBC Cablevision, Inc. certain rights regarding a television
      1974   antenna service
-     2-2-   Capital Reserve Fund created for the improvement of water system
      1981
-     4-20-  Agreement between Wilkes County Medical Service and the Wilkesboro Fire
      1989   Department
-     6-5-   Board of Commissioners accepts all real and personal property, any capital
      1995   and all other assets of Mountain Park Cemetery Association
Res.  8-6-   Rezoning a tract of land from R-20A Residential/Agricultural District to B-
-     2012   2 General Business District
Res.  2-4-   Rezoning a tract of land from R-6 General Residential District to B-
-     2013   2 General Business District
Res.  5-6-   Motor vehicle sales and service permitted M2-Limited Industrial Zoning
-     2013   District
Res.  6-3-   Accepting Kennedy Street into the Street Maintenance System from US 421 to
2013- 2013   Olive Drive
11
Res.  3-3-   Rezoning a tract of land from B-2 General Business District to R06 General
-     2014   Residential District
Res.  12-1-
2014- 2014   Allowing manufactured home parks as a conditional use in the R-20A District
30
-     10-1-  Rezoning property at 898 Union Street from M-1 Industrial District to R-
      2018   6 General Residence District
-     12-3-  Rezoning property at 303 South Cherry Street from R-6 General Residence
      2018   District to B-2 General Business District
Res.  12-3-  Authorizing the sale of property located at 100 Court Square (also known as
2018- 2018   100 or 110 Bridge Street, parcel number 2203616) to Finley Properties, LLC,
36           so that it can develop a mixed-use facility on the site
Res.  1-7-   Relinquishing any standing to provide sewer service the Lynwood Subdivision
2019- 2019   to allow the Town of North Wilkesboro to begin construction of a sewer
02           extension in 2019
-     3-25-  Granting a conditional use to Jefferson and Deborah Lankford for an assessor
      2019   dwelling unit (ADU) located at 450 Shady Lane
-     4-15-  Granting a zoning variance and conditional use permit to HawksNest Group LLC
      2019   for electronic gaming operations at 2818 West US Highway 421
      4-15-  Granting a zoning variance to Cub Creek Park to allow a handicap (ADA)
-     2019   stream access in the floodway, which would be functionally dependent and
             could impact the flood plain
-     6-3-   Rezoning 6.28 acres in the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction from R-20A
      2019   Residential Agricultural District to B-2 General Business District
-     6-17-  Granting a variance to Finley Properties I, LLC, to allow for additional
      2019   signage at 1301 Westwood Lane
      7-1-   Approving rezoning request 2019-02 of Junior GoForth, rezoning properties at
-     2019   607 West Main Street, 609 West Main Street and 611 West Main Street from B-
             2 General Business District to R-6 General Residence District.
      7-1-   Approving rezoning request 2019-03 of Nathan Gregory, rezoning property at
-     2019   1007 Fletcher Street from R-6 General Residence District to B-2 General
             Business District
-     11-4-  Abandoning an unopened alleyway from Pine Street to Cherry Street to the
      2019   owners of parcels 22-00222 and 22-00224
Res.  1-6-   Excluding parcel number 1504365 from the proposed addition of 52 other
2020- 2020   parcels to the town limits
01
2020- 2-3-   Extending the corporate limits of the town by annexing land less than three
01    2020   miles from the corporate limits
Res.  6-1-   Requesting NCDOT grant the town ownership of Old Brown's Ford Road (SR
2020- 2020   1234), at the full secondary road length
14
2020- 8-3-   Extending the corporate limits of the town by annexing land in the Reddies
04    2020   River Township
Res.  11-2-  Changing the name of Old Brown's Ford Road (SR 1234) to ABC Way once the
2020- 2020   road has been released by NCDOT
22
Res.  11-2-  Authorizing the sale of real property for economic development, parcel
2020- 2020   number 2203616 comprised of 0.87 acres
23
Res.  6-7-
2021- 2021   Accepting Two Rivers Drive into the town street maintenance system
14
2022- 5-2-   Extending the corporate limits of the town by annexing land in the Reddies
02    2022   River Township
2022- 5-2-   Extending the corporate limits of the town by annexing 9.82 acres
03    2022
2024- 11-4-  Rezoning property identified as Parcel #2206495 from B2 General Business to
03    2024   R8 Single Family Residential
2024- 8-5-   Rezoning property identified as Parcel #2200469 and #2204168 from B2 General
11    2024   Business to R8 Single Family Residential
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference                       Code Section
1-593                                10.05
7A-227                               154.32;
                                     155.23
7A-228                               154.32;
                                     155.23
                                     10.99;
                                     50.054;
                                     51.99;
14-4                                 96.99,
                                     97.99;
                                     110.57;
                                     116.02;
                                     153.99
14-4(a)                              93.99
14-132                               130.01;
                                     132.04
14-134                               132.16
14-148                               97.04
14-148(c)                            97.04
14-159.6–14-159.9                  132.16
14-160                               132.16
14-169                               131.05
14-188                               132.16
14-204                               118.10
14-223                               130.02;
                                     131.03
14-225                               132.06
14-234                               33.22,
                                     33.26
14-234(d1)                           33.26
14-281.1–14-288.11, 14-288.18      35.02
14-286                               132.06
14-288.3                             32.04
14-288.4                             132.04
14-289 et seq.                       132.07
14-303 et seq.                       132.16
14-309.14                            132.07
14-315                               131.05
14-316                               131.05
14-399                               51.14,
                                     51.17
14.399(b)                            51.19
14-399(k)                            51.23
14-406                               131.05
14-408                               131.05
14-408.1                             131.05
14-409                               131.05
14-410–14-415                      91.01
15-27.2                              155.16
15-54                                32.025
Chapter 20                           70.01
Chapter 20, Art. 17                  118.01
20-37.6                              73.99
20-37.6(f)(4)                        73.99
20-114.1                             91.24
20-115 et seq.                       70.25
20-138.1–20-171                    71.05
20-141                               71.10;
                                     72.05
20-141, subsec.(a)                   71.10
20-141, subset. (b)                  73.01
20-142.1                             72.01
20-158                               71.10;
                                     72.05
20-158.1                             72.01
20-161–20-163                      73.01
20-162                               73.17
20-162.1                             73.01
20-168                               70.06
                                     70.01;
                                     71.10;
20-169                               72.01;
                                     72.05;
                                     73.01
20-172                               72.01
20-175(e)                            132.02
20-219.11                            94.09
20-280(b)                            118.01
22B-1                                33.26
22B-2                                33.26
22B-3                                33.26
22B-10                               33.26
42-29                                154.32;
                                     155.23
42-30                                154.32;
                                     155.23
44A-1                                94.11
44A-26                               33.25
51-81-5                              91.03
58-79-1 et seq.                      91.22
58-81-5–51-81-15                   91.24
58-84-1–58-88-30                   34.03
Chapter 65, Article 9                97.03
66-252                               111.01
67-2                                 93.23
Ch. 69                               91.01
Chapter 74C                          116.02
Chapter 87                           117.01
87-1                                 33.25
87-1.1                            33.25
90-620 et seq.                       113.01
Chapter 93                           30.22
Chapter 93B                          110.35
Chapter 105                          52.06
Chapter 105, Subchapter I            52.01
                                     52.01;
Chapter 105, Article 3               52.03;
                                     52.04
Chapter 105, Subchapter 1, Article 5 114.08
                                     52.05;
Chapter 105, Subchapter 1, Article 9 52.06;
                                     114.07
105-1 et seq.                        52.02
                                     30.25;
105-33                               Ch. 110 ;
                                     111.01
105-33 et seq.                       Ch. 110 
105-109                              110.56;
                                     110.57
105-164.3(17)                        114.01
105-164.16                           52.04
105-187.1(3)                         114.01
105-187.1(7)                         114.01
105-249                              110.22
105-249.1                            110.22
105-349                              114.01
105-374                              153.08
105-375                              153.08
106-940                              91.10
115C-264                             33.25
Chapter 118, Article 3               34.03
118-6                                34.03
118-7                                34.03
121-5                                110.45;
                                     110.55
Chapter 130A                         93.23
130A-309.04                          51.09
132-1                                33.25
132-6                                33.25
133-32                               33.22
Chapter 135 Article 2                34.01
135-23                               34.01
136-27.4                             90.07
136-32                               72.01;
                                     72.05
136-33                               72.01
136-141 et seq.                      94.14
136-143                              94.14
Chapter 143 Article 3D               33.25
Chapter 143 Article 21               53.09
143-64.31                            33.25,
                                     33.33
143-64.32                            33.25
143-128                              33.25
143-128(a)                           33.33
143-128.1                            33.25
143-128.1A                           33.25
143-128.1B                           33.25
143-128.1C                           33.25
143-128.2                            33.25,
                                     33.33
143-128.3                            33.25
143-128.4                            33.24
143-129                              33.25,
                                     33.33
143-129(a)(1)                        33.33
143-129(b)                           33.25
143-129(e)(1)                        33.25
143-129(e)(2)                        33.25
143-129(e)(3)                        33.25
143-129(e)(4)                        33.25
143-129(e)(5)                        33.25
143-129(e)(6)                        33.25
143-129(e)(7)                        33.25
143-129(e)(8)                        33.25
143-129(e)(9)                        33.25
143-129(e)(9a)                       33.25
143-129(e)(10)                       33.25
143-129(e)(11)                       33.25
143-129(f)(1)                        33.25
143-129(g)                           33.25
143-129(h)                           33.25
143-129.1                            33.25
143-129.2                            33.25
143-129.5                            33.25
143-129.8                            33.25
143-129.9                            33.25
143-131                              33.25
143-132                              33.25
143-133.3                            33.26
143-133.5                            33.26
143-135                              33.25
143-138                              91.04
143-138(b)                           152.01
143-138, subset. (e)                 152.01
143-139.1                            33.25
143-145(7)                           154.03
143-211 et seq.                      91.01
143-213(18)                          53.02
143-215.1                            53.02;
                                     53.05
143-215.1(b)                         53.05
143-215.1(d)                         53.02
143-215.1(g)                         53.05
143-215.3(a)(14)                     53.01
143-215.3C                           53.08
143-215.6B                           53.09
143-215.6B(f)                        53.09
143-215.6B(g)                        53.09
143-215.6B(h)                        53.09
143-215.6B(i)                        53.09
143B-434.1                           32.060
147-33.81(2)                         33.25
147-86.60                            33.26
147-86.82                            33.26
Chapter 153A, Article 6              50.050
153A-13                              33.27
153A-123(d)                          50.054
153A-123(e)                          50.054
153A-275                             53.01
153A-449(a)                          33.26
159-28(a)                            33.26
159-28(b)                            33.23
159-29                               30.07
159-30                               34.03
159-31                               34.03
159-148                              33.26
160-400.1 et seq.                    32.080
Chapter 160A                         33.01
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2      Charter, §
                                     2
Chapter 160A, Article 10             155.22
160A-19                              132.06
160A-20.1(a)                      33.26
160A-60                              30.03
160A-69                              31.03
160A-70                              31.03
160A-71                              31.03
160A-101(3)                          Charter, §
                                     2
160A-101(9)b.                        Charter, §
                                     2
160A-171                             31.17
                                     Ch. 92;
160A-174                             132.13;
                                     154.01
                                     51.99;
160A-175                             96.99;
                                     117.99;
                                     132.11
160A-175(b)                          93.99
160A-175(d)                          93.24;
                                     110.57
160A-175(e)                          93.24;
                                     93.99
160A-175(f)                          93.99
160A-175(g)                          93.99
160A-183                             91.03
160A-186                             93.02
160A-193                             90.06
160A-194                             Ch. 110
160A-207                             110.56
160A-208.1                           114.03
160A-211                             114.02
160A-215.1                           114.09
160A-215.1(b)                        114.06
160A-215.1(d)                        114.08
160A-215.1(e)(1)                     114.01
160A-215.1(e)(2)                     114.01
160A-216–160A-236                  Ch. 90
160A-281 et seq.                     32.025
160A-282                             32.031
160A-286                             32.025
160A-291                             91.22
160A-292                             91.22
160A-293                             91.22
160A-296                             Ch. 90;
                                     Ch. 92
160A-297–160A-307                  Ch. 90
160A-300                             70.01;
                                     Ch. 92
160A-301                             73.01;
                                     73.31
                                     70.25;
160A-303                             73.31;
                                     94.02
160A-303.2                           94.02
160A-312                             53.01
160A-387                             32.004
160A-439                             155.03
160A-441                             154.01
160A-443                             154.32
160A-444                             154.01
160A-445                             154.06
160A-446                             155.20
160A-461                             33.26
160A-464                             33.26
160A-485                             33.05
163-292                              31.18
164-7                                10.14
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2006 Code
Prior Code 2006 Code
1-8        10.17
2-1        33.01
2-2        33.02
2-3        33.03
2-4        33.04
2-5        33.05
2-6        33.06
2-7        31.01
2-8        31.02
2-9        31.03
2-10       31.04
2-11       31.05
2-12       31.05
2-13       31.06
2-14       31.07
2-15       31.08
2-16       31.09
2-17       31.10
2-18       31.11
2-19       31.12
2-20       31.13
2-21       31.13
2-23       31.14
2-24       31.15
2-25       31.16
2-26       31.17
2-27       30.01
2-28       30.02
2-29       30.03
2-30       30.04
2-31       30.05
2-32       30.06
2-33       30.07
2-34       30.20
2-35       30.21
2-36       30.22
2-37       30.22
2-38       30.23
2-39       30.24
2-40       30.25
2-41       32.001
2-42       32.002
2-43       32.003
2-44       32.004
2-45       32.004
2-46       32.004
2-47       32.004
2-48       32.005
2-49       32.006
2-50       32.007
2-51       32.008
2-52       32.009
2-53       32.010
2-54       32.011
2-55       32.012
3-1        112.01
4-1        93.01
4-2        93.02
4-3        93.03;
           93.99
4-4        93.04
4-5        93.05
4-6        93.06
4-7        93.07
4-8        93.20
4-11       93.21
4-12       93.22
4-13       93.23
5-1        150.01
5-2        150.02
5-3        150.02
5-4        150.03
5-5        150.04
5-6        150.04
5-7        150.05
5-8        150.06
5-9        150.07
5-10       150.08
5-11       150.09
5-12       151.01
5-13       151.02
5-14       151.03
5-15       151.04
5-16       151.05
5-17       151.06
5-18       151.07
5-19       152.01
5-20       152.02
5-21       152.03
5-22       152.04 
5-23       152.05
5-24       152.06
5-25       152.13
5-26       152.14
5-27       152.15
5-28       153.01
5-29       153.02
5-30       153.03
5-31       153.04
5-32       153.05
5-33       153.06
5-35       153.07;
           153.08
5-36       153.09
5-37       153.10
5-38       153.99
6-1        35.01
6-2        35.02
6-3        35.03
6-4        35.04
6-5        35.05
6-6        35.06
6-7        35.07
7-1        92.01
7-2        92.02
7-3        92.03
7-4        92.04
7-5        92.03
7-6        92.05
7-7        92.06
7-8        92.07
7-9        92.08
8-1        91.01
8-2        91.02
8-3        91.03
8-4        91.04
8-5        91.05
8-6        91.07
8-7        91.07
8-8        91.08
8-9        91.06
8-10       91.09
8-11       91.99
8-12       91.09
8-13       91.20
8-14       91.21
8-15       91.22
8-16       91.23
8-17       91.24
10-11      111.01
10-12      111.02
10-13      111.03
10-14      111.04
11-2       70.01
11-3       70.02
11-4       70.03
11-5       70.04
11-6       70.05
11-7       70.06
11-8       70.07
11-9       70.08
11-11      70.09
11-12      70.10
11-13      72.01
11-14      72.02
11-15      72.02
11-16      72.03
11-17      72.04
11-18      72.05
11-19      72.06
11-20      72.07
11-21      72.08
11-22      72.09
11-23      72.10
11-24      72.11
11-25      72.12
11-26      72.13
11-27      72.14
11-28      72.15
11-29      71.01
11-30      71.02
11-31      71.03
11-32      71.04
11-33      71.05
11-34      71.06
11-35      71.07
11-36      71.08
11-37      71.09
11-38      71.10
11-39      71.10
11-40      73.01
11-41      73.02
11-42      73.03
11-43      73.04
11-44      73.05
11-45      73.06
11-46      73.07
11-47      73.08
11-48      73.09
11-49      73.10
11-50      73.11
11-51      73.12
11-52      73.13
11-53      73.14
11-54      73.15
11-55      73.16
11-56      73.17
11-58      73.99
11-59      73.99
11-60      73.30
11-61      73.31
11-62      73.32
11-63      73.33
11-64      73.34
11-65      73.35
11-67      73.36
11-68      73.37
11-69      73.38
11-72      73.39
11-81      70.25
11-82      70.25
11-83      70.25
11-84      70.25
11-85      70.26
11-86      70.27
11-87      70.28
11-88      70.29
11-89      70.30
11-90      70.31
11-91      70.32
11-92      70.33
11-93      70.34
11-94      70.35
12-1       130.01
12-2       130.01
12-4       131.01
12-5       131.01
12-6       131.02
12-7       132.01
12-11      132.03
12-12      132.04
12-13      132.05
12-15      132.06
12-17      132.08
12-18      132.09
12-19      130.04
12-20      132.10
12-25      132.13
12-26      132.14
12-27      132.14
12-29      132.15
12-30      132.16
12-31      132.16
12-32      132.17
12-33      132.18
12-34      132.18
12-36      131.03
12-37      131.03
12-38      130.01;
           131.03
12-39      130.02
12-40      130.02
12-41      130.02
12-42      130.03
12-43      130.03
12-45      131.04
12-46      131.05
13-1       34.01
13-2       34.02
14-1       32.025
14-2       32.026
14-3       32.027
14-4       32.028
14-5       32.029
14-6       32.030
14-7       32.031
15-1       90.01
15-2       90.02
15-3       90.03
15-4       90.04
15-5       90.05
15-6       90.05
15-7       90.05
15-8       90.06
15-9       90.20
15-10      90.20
15-11      90.21
15-12      90.22
15-13      90.22
15-14      90.35
15-15      90.36
15-16      90.37
15-17      90.38
15-18      90.39
16-1       50.001
16-2       50.002
16-3       50.003
16-4       50.004
16-5       50.005
16-6       50.015
16-7       50.016
16-8       50.017
16-9       50.018
16-10      50.030
16-11      50.031
16-12      50.032
16-13      50.033
16-14      50.034
16-15      50.034
16-16      50.035
16-17      50.036
16-18      50.037
16-19      50.038
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        8-6-2012    TSO II
2012-19  10-1-2012   TSO I
-        11-5-2012   TSO I
-        2-4-2013    TSO II
2013-05  4-8-2013    TSO I
2013-08  5-6-2013    TSO I
2013-11  6-3-2013    TSO II
2013-16  9-9-2013    TSO I
-        3-3-2014    TSO II
2014-10  3-3-2014    TSO I
2014-12  4-7-2014    TSO I
2014-14  4-7-2014    TSO I
2014-18  7-7-2014    TSO I
2014-19  8-4-2014    TSO I
2014-24  9-8-2014    TSO I
2014-30  12-1-2014   TSO II
2015-03  2-2-2015    TSO I
2015-07  4-13-2015   TSO I
2015-12  7-6-2015    TSO I
2015-13  7-6-2015    TSO I
2015-19  9-14-2015   TSO I
2016-14  8-1-2016    TSO I
2017-03  2-6-2017    TSO I
2017-14  4-3-2017    TSO I
2017-15  4-3-2017    TSO I
2017-16  4-3-2017    TSO I
2017-17  4-3-2017    TSO I
2017-25  8-7-2017    TSO I
2017-26  8-7-2017    TSO I
2017-27  8-7-2017    TSO I
2017-28  8-7-2017    TSO I
2017-32  9-11-2017   TSO I
2017-37  10-2-2017   32.062
2017-38  11-6-2017   30.02
2017-41  11-6-2017   TSO I
2018-03  2-5-2018    TSO I
2018-09  3-5-2018    TSO I
2018-14  4-9-2018    TSO I
2018-15  4-9-2018    TSO I
2018-16  4-9-2018    TSO I
2018-20  5-7-2018    TSO I
2018-23  8-23-2018   TSO I
2018-30  9-10-2018   TSO I
2018-34  11-5-2018   TSO I
2018-36  12-3-2018   TSO II
2019-01  1-7-2019    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-02  1-7-2019    TSO II
2019-05  2-4-2019    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2019-08  3-4-2019    TSO I
2019-11  5-6-2019    TSO I
2019-14  6-3-2019    TSO I
2019-16  6-3-2019    TSO I
2019-17  6-3-2019    TSO I
2020-01  1-6-2020    TSO II
2020-03  2-3-2020    TSO I
2020-07  4-6-2020    TSO I
2020-08  4-6-2020    TSO I
2020-09  4-6-2020    TSO I
2020-14  6-1-2020    TSO II
2020-16  8-3-2020    33.20 -
                     33.33
2020-19  9-14-2020   TSO I
2020-22  11-2-2020   TSO II
2020-23  11-2-2020   TSO II
2021-02  1-11-2021   30.09
2021-06  4-12-2021   TSO I
2021-07  4-12-2021   TSO I
2021-11  6-7-2021    TSO I
2021-13  6-7-2021    TSO I
2021-14  6-7-2021    TSO II
2021-20  8-2-2021    TSO I
2021-21  8-2-2021    TSO I
2021-29  10-4-2021   TSO I
2021-31  10-4-2021   TSO I
2021-32  10-4-2021   TSO I
2022-03  2-7-2022    TSO I
2022-07  4-4-2022    TSO I
2022-10  4-4-2022    TSO I
2022-11  4-4-2022    TSO I
2022-12  4-4-2022    TSO I
2022-19  6-6-2022    TSO I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      32.080–
                      32.092;
                      50.080–
                      50.086;
                      51.01–
                      51.23;
                      51.99;
                      51.10–
                      51.23;
                      94.01–
                      94.15;
                      95.01–
                      95.05;
                      115.001–
                      115.003;
                      115.015–
                      115.022;
                      115.035–
                      115.038;
–       - -         115.050–
                      115.063;
                      115.075–
                      115.086;
                      115.100–
                      115.103;
                      115.115–
                      115.118;
                      115.130;
                      115.131;
                      115.145;
                      115.146;
                      115.160–
                      115.166;
                      Ch. 115, App. A;
                      154.01–
                      154.16;
                      154.30–
                      154.38;
                      154.98
–       2-25-1974   TSO II
–       10-7-1974   Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       2-2-1976    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       9-5-1977    Ch. 74, Sch. I
                      117.01–
–       12-12-1977  117.08;
                      117.99
–       11-6-1978   Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       3-5-1979    150.03
–       6-4-1979    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       11-5-1979   50.050–
                      50.054
–       3-3-1980    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       12-1-1980   Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       12-30-1980  70.10
–       2-2-1981    TSO II
–       4-6-1981    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       8-3-1981    150.10
–       8-13-1981   Ch. 74, Sch. III
–       10-20-1981  TSO I
–       11-2-1981   TSO I
–       4-5-1982    TSO I
–       9-13-1982   TSO I
–       3-5-1984    150.20
–       9-4-1984    50.037
–       12-3-1984   Ch. 74, Sch. I
–       1-7-1985    30.08
–       6-3-1985    73.99
–       6-18-1985   30.08
–       5-6-1986    34.03
–       7-1-1987    50.033
–       1-4-1988    Ch. 74, Sch. I
–       9-6-1988    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       10-3-1988   Ch. 74, Sch. I
–       2-6-1989    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       4-3-1989    50.001
–       4-20-1989   91.25;
                      TSO II
–       5-1-1989    112.02;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       7-27-1989   32.025
–       8-7-1989    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       8-6-1990    TSO I
–       7-16-1991   51.09
–       9-3-1991    Ch. 74, Sch. II
–       12-2-1991   93.24
–       2-3-1992    116.01–
                      116.05
–       9-1-1992    51.09
–       11-30-1992  93.03;
                      93.99
–       6-7-1993    51.21;
                      TSO I
–       11-1-1993   Ch. 74, Sch. II
–       4-5-1994    91.01
–       9-6-1994    73.05;
                      73.99
–       1-3-1995    TSO I
–       2-6-1995    90.06;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
–       4-4-1995    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       6-5-1995    TSO II
–       8-7-1995    Ch. 74, Sch. II
–       2-2-1996    132.07
–       6-3-1996    32.045–
                      32.048
–       12-2-1996   132.07;
                      TSO I
–       2-2-1998    31.18
–       7-6-1998    Ch. 74, Sch. I
–       12-7-1998   93.25;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       6-5-2000    114.01–
                      114.09
–       3-4-2002    32.060–
                      32.067
–       6-3-2002    52.01–
                      52.08
–       3-3-2003    113.01
–       2-2-2004    TSO I
–       4-5-2004    TSO I
                      97.01–
–       10-3-2005   97.14;
                      97.99
–       4-4-2006    Ch. 75, Sch. I
–       6-5-2006    Charter, §
                      2
                      118.01 -
–       7-10-2006   118.15,
                      118.99
                      96.01 -
–       9-11-2006   96.21;
                      96.99
-         12-11-2006  111.05
-         7-9-2007    34.04
-         5-5-2008    132.02
2009-01   1-12-2009   111.06,
                      111.07
2009-02   1-12-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-1    3-1-2010    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                      110.01,
                      110.02,
2012-1    4-2-2012    110.15 -
                      110.22,
                      110.35 -
                      110.57
2012-2    8-6-2012    Ch. 75, Sch. I and
                      II
2012-3    12-3-2012   Ch. 75, Sch. I and
                      II 
-         12-3-2012   53.01 -
                      53.12
2013-01   9-9-2013    132.12
2013-02   9-9-2013    10.99
2014-02   4-7-2014    155.01 -
                      155.29
2014-03   4-7-2014    94.01 -
                      94.16
2014-04   4-7-2014    32.001
2014-05   6-2-2014    Ch. 75, Sch. I
2017-01   2-6-2017    TSO I
2018-12   8-6-2018    90.08
                      51.01-
2018-13   9-10-2018   51.23,
                      51.99
-         10-1-2018   TSO II
-         12-3-2018   TSO II
-         3-25-2019   TSO II
2019-01   4-1-2019    98.01 -
                      98.03
-         4-15-2019   TSO II
-         4-15-2019   TSO II
-         6-3-2019    TSO II
-         6-17-2019   TSO II
-         7-1-2019    TSO II
-         7-1-2019    TSO II
-         11-4-2019   TSO II
2020-01   2-3-2020    TSO II
2020-02   2-3-2020    91.10
2020-03   6-15-2020   132.11
2020-04   8-3-2020    TSO II
2020-05   8-3-2020    131.06
2020-09   11-2-2020   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2020-09   12-7-2020   Ch. 75, Sch. I
(Amended)
2021-04   5-3-2021    73.18
2021-05   5-3-2021    90.07,
                      90.08
2022-02   5-2-2022    TSO II
2022-03   5-2-2022    TSO II
2024-03   11-4-2024   TSO II
2024-04   4-8-2024    132.11
2024-07   1-6-2025    TSO I
2024-11   8-5-2024    TSO II
2025-02   4-7-2025    Ch. 74, Sch. I
                     
 
WILKESBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
ZONING CODE
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-7-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.101   Purpose and intent
   
156.102   Authority
   
156.103   Jurisdiction and applicability
   
156.104   Severability
   
156.105   Conflicting provisions
   
156.106   Continued violations
   
156.107   Interpretation
   
156.108   Conflicts of interest
   
156.109   Rules of procedure
   
156.110   Oath of office
   
156.111   Extraterritorial representation
   
156.112   Advisory boards
   
156.113   Repeal of previous ordinance and effective date
Administration
   
156.201   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
156.202   Development approvals and determinations
   
156.203   Enforcement
   
156.204   Development agreements
   
156.205   Legal nonconformities
   
156.206   Vested rights and permit choice
   
156.207   Legislative decision and amendments
   
156.208   Procedures and notice requirements
   
156.209   Protest petitions
   
156.210   Withdrawal of application
   
156.211   Effect of denial on subsequent petitions
   
156.212   Minor changes
   
156.213   Quasi-judicial procedures
   
156.214   Special use permits
   
156.215   Variances
   
156.216   Fees
   
156.217   Planning Board
   
156.218   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
156.219   Historic Preservation Commission
Zoning Districts
   
156.301   Official Zoning Map
   
156.302   Zoning districts – intent and dimensional requirements
   
156.303   Permitted uses
General Development Standards
   
156.401   Principal structures
   
156.402   Minimum frontage
   
156.403   Exceptions to height and setback regulations
   
156.404   Visibility at intersections
   
156.405   Off-street parking
   
156.406   Off-street loading space
   
156.407   Signs
   
156.408   Addressing – reserved
   
156.409   Access – reserved
   
156.410   Exterior lighting – reserved
   
156.411   Buffering and screening
   
156.412   Landscaping – reserved
   
156.413   Utilities – reserved
   
156.414   Fences
   
156.415   Stormwater protection
Development Standards for Specific Uses
   
156.501   Accessory dwelling units
   
156.502   Accessory uses and structures
   
156.503   Adult uses
   
156.504   Asphalt and concrete plants
   
156.505   Bed and breakfasts – reserved
   
156.506   Cemeteries – reserved
   
156.507   Child day care/nursery school facilities
   
156.508   Electronic gaming operations
   
156.509   Extraction of earth products – reserved
   
156.510   Family care home
   
156.511   Helicopter landing pads
   
156.512   Junkyards, motor vehicle graveyards, and salvage yards
   
156.513   Kennels
   
156.514   Manufactured home parks
   
156.515   Manufactured homes on individual lots
   
156.516   Mini-storage units – reserved
   
156.517   Mixed use residential
   
156.518   Modular units – reserved
   
156.519   Motor vehicle body shop – reserved
   
156.520   Multi-family dwellings
   
156.521   Planned unit development
   
156.522   Precious metals dealer – reserved
   
156.523   Public utilities
   
156.524   RV park and campground standards
   
156.525   Service stations with fuel sales
   
156.526   Single and multi-tenant retail buildings greater than 30,000 square
feet
   
156.527   Solar energy systems
   
156.528   Wireless telecommunications facilities or complexes
   
156.529   Breweries, brewpubs, distilleries, microbreweries, and tap or tasting
rooms
   
156.530   Storage services
   
156.531   Rooming and boarding houses
Overlay Districts
   
156.601   Airport Overlay
   
156.602   Flood Damage Prevention Overlay
   
156.603   Gateway Overlay – reserved
   
156.604   Historic District Overlay
   
156.605   US HWY 421 Overlay – reserved
   
156.606   Watershed Protection Overlay
Definitions
   
156.701   Definitions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.101 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   These regulations are necessary and are adopted to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience, comfort, amenities, prosperity, and
general welfare of persons and landowners within the planning and development
jurisdiction of the Town of Wilkesboro. These regulations and standards are
intended to:
   (A)   Implement community land-use plans and standards.
   (B)   Preserve and protect property values and peaceful enjoyment.
   (C)   Facilitate the adequate and efficient provision of community services
such as transportation, water and sewer utilities, parks, schools, and other
public necessities.
   (D)   Preserve and protect land, air, water, and other natural resources.
   (E)   Ensure protection from fire, flood, and other dangers.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.102 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority contained in G.S.
Ch. 160D, “Local Planning and Development Regulation.”
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.103 JURISDICTION AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all portions of the Town
of Wilkesboro and its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) as defined in G.S.
Ch. 160D, Art. 2.
   (B)   These regulations are applicable to all development, public and
private, throughout said jurisdiction and no land or structures shall be used
or occupied, and no excavation, removal of soil, clearing of a site, or placing
of fill shall take place on lands contemplated for development, and no
structure, or part thereof, shall be constructed, altered, renovated, or moved,
except in compliance with applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Agricultural areas in municipal extraterritorial jurisdiction.
Property that is located in the extraterritorial planning and development
regulation jurisdiction and that is used for bona fide farm purposes is exempt
from zoning regulation to the same extent bona fide farming activities are
exempt from county zoning. “Property" means a single tract of property or an
identifiable portion of a single tract. Property that ceases to be used for
bona fide farm purposes becomes subject to planning and development regulation.
For purposes of complying with state or federal law, property that is exempt
from municipal zoning pursuant is subject to all floodplain regulation
provisions.
   (D)   Notice of proposed jurisdiction change. Any municipality proposing to
exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction shall notify the owners of all parcels
of land proposed for addition to the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction, as
shown on the county tax records. The notice shall be sent by first-class mail
to the last addresses listed for affected property owners in the county tax
records. The notice shall inform the landowner of the effect of the extension
of extraterritorial jurisdiction, of the landowner's right to participate in a
legislative hearing prior to adoption of any ordinance extending the area of
extraterritorial jurisdiction, as provided in G.S. § 160D-601 and of the right
of all residents of the area to apply to the Board of County Commissioners to
serve as a representative on the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, as provided in G.S. § 160D-307. The notice shall be mailed at least
30 days prior to the date of the hearing. The person or persons mailing the
notices shall certify to the Town Council that the notices were sent by first-
class mail, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of
fraud.
   (E)   Split jurisdiction. If a parcel of land lies within the planning and
development jurisdiction of more than one local government, the local
government may by mutual agreement and with the written consent of the
landowner, assign exclusive planning and development regulation jurisdiction
under this chapter for the entire parcel to any one of those local governments.
The mutual agreement shall be evidenced by a resolution formally adopted by
each governing board and recorded with the register of deeds in the county
where the property is located within 14 days of the adoption of the last
required resolution.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.104 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or standard of this chapter is found by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision of the court shall not
affect the validity of any other section, provision, or standard of this
chapter except that which is in question. The other portions of these
regulations not affected by the decision of the court shall remain in full
force and effect.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.105 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with those of the
federal or state governments, or are inconsistent with other regulations of the
town, the more restrictive will control, to the extent permitted by law.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate, annul, or otherwise
interfere with any easement, covenant or other private agreement or legal
relationship otherwise in conformance with it.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.106 CONTINUED VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of the previous zoning ordinance shall continue to be a
violation under this chapter, unless the circumstances that constituted a
violation under the previous ordinance do not constitute a violation under this
chapter, in which case enforcement action shall cease except to the extent of
collecting penalties assessed before the effective date of this chapter.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.107 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Meaning and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this chapter shall be construed according to this chapter’s stated
purpose and intent.
   (B)   Authority for interpretation. The Zoning Enforcement Officer is
responsible for interpreting the text of this chapter in accordance with the
standards set forth in this section and applicable ordinance standards and
requirements. Interpretations of the Zoning Enforcement Officer may be appealed
to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring an
official or an employee of the town to perform an act or duty, that provision
shall be construed as authorizing the official to delegate the responsibility
to subordinates, unless the terms of the provision specify otherwise.
   (D)   Computation of time. References to days are calendar days unless
otherwise specified.
   (E)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use the terms "such as," "including," or similar
language are intended to provide examples only and should not be construed as
exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
   (F)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words "shall," "will," and
"must" are mandatory. The words "may" and "should" are advisory and
discretionary.
   (G)   Conjunctions. Conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows: "and"
indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or events apply,
while "or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events apply.
   (H)   Tenses. Words used in one tense (present, past, future) include all
other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.108 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Governing board. A governing board member shall not vote on any
legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to
this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. A governing board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment
if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the
applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed boards. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation where the
outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. An
appointed board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner
of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text
amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or
other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff.
      (1)   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff
member or if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person
with whom the staff member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest under
this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff
person, or such other staff person as may be designated by the development
regulation or other chapter of the Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with a local government to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the local government, as determined by the local government.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a "close familial
relationship" means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.109 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
may be adopted by the governing board for any or all boards created in this
chapter. In the absence of action by the governing board, each board created
under this chapter is authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure that are
consistent with the provisions of this chapter. A copy of any adopted rules of
procedure shall be maintained by the local government clerk and posted on the
local government website. Each board shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.110 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members appointed to boards shall, before entering their duties, qualify
by taking an oath of office as required by G.S. § 160D-309.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.111 EXTRATERRITORIAL REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   Proportional representation. A proportional representation based on
population for residents of the extraterritorial area shall be provided. The
population estimates for this calculation shall be updated no less frequently
than after each decennial census. Representation shall be provided by
appointing at least one resident of the entire extraterritorial planning and
development regulation area to the Planning Board, Zoning Board of Adjustment,
Appearance Commission, and the Historic Preservation Commission if there are
historic districts or designated landmarks in the extraterritorial area.
   (B)   Appointment. Membership of joint municipal-county planning agencies or
boards of adjustment may be appointed as agreed by counties and cities.
   (C)   Voting rights. The outside representatives have equal rights,
privileges, and duties with the other members of the board to which they are
appointed, regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the city or
within the extraterritorial area.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.112 ADVISORY BOARDS.
   The governing board may by ordinance establish additional advisory boards as
deemed appropriate. The ordinance establishing such boards shall specify the
composition and duties of such boards.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.113 REPEAL OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The previous regulations, entitled Town of Wilkesboro Zoning Ordinance, are
hereby repealed as of August 1, 2022. This chapter is effective immediately.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.201 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Authorization.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, who shall be appointed by the governing board. The
governing board may appoint administrators, inspectors, enforcement officers,
planners, technicians, and other staff to develop, administer, and enforce
development regulations.
      (2)   The governing body may enter contracts with another city, county,
or combination thereof under which the parties agree to create a joint staff
for the enforcement of state and local laws specified in the agreement. The
governing boards of the contracting parties may make any necessary
appropriations for this purpose.
   (B)   Duties. Duties assigned to staff may include, but are not limited to,
drafting and implementing plans and development regulations to be adopted
pursuant to this chapter; determining whether applications for development
approvals are complete; receiving and processing applications for development
approvals; providing notices of applications and hearings; making decisions and
determinations regarding development regulation implementation; determining
whether applications for development approvals meet applicable standards as
established by law and local ordinance; conducting inspections; issuing or
denying certificates of compliance or occupancy; enforcing development
regulations, including issuing notices of violation, orders to correct
violations, and recommending bringing judicial actions against actual or
threatened violations; keeping adequate records; and any other actions that may
be required in order to adequately enforce the laws and development regulations
under their jurisdiction. Persons aggrieved by a decision, or a determination
made by the Zoning Officer may appeal that action to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.202 DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Development approvals. To the extent consistent with the scope of
regulatory authority granted by G.S. Ch. 160D, no person shall commence or
proceed with development without first securing any required development
approval as described in this chapter. Development approvals may be issued in
print or electronic form. Any development approval issued exclusively in
electronic form shall be protected from further editing once issued.
Applications for development approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee
or person holding an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an
authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may also apply for
development approval for such development as is authorized by the easement.
   (B)   Zoning compliance permit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to begin construction, place, or move any
structure, including signs, or to begin to grade or excavate for immediate
construction until the Zoning Enforcement Officer has issued for such work a
zoning compliance permit which includes a determination that the site plan,
building specifications, and the intended use of such structure conform in all
respects to these provisions. A zoning compliance permit is required for, but
does not satisfy the need for, the issuance of a building permit when the
proposed work requires it. Applicants are responsible for obtaining any
additional permits from other agencies as required by applicable laws.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to change the type of use or type of occupancy
of any building, or to extend any use of any lot on which there is a
nonconforming use, until the Zoning Enforcement Officer has issued for such
intended use a zoning compliance permit, including a determination that the
proposed use does, in all respects, conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Determinations and notice of determinations.
      (1)   The officer making the determination shall give written notice to
the owner of the property that is the subject of the determination and to the
party who sought the determination, if different from the owner. The written
notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-
class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the last address listed for the
owner of the affected property and to the address provided in the application
or request for a determination if the party seeking the determination is
different from the owner.
      (2)   It is conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the determination from the date a sign
providing notice that a determination has been made is prominently posted on
the property that is the subject of the determination, provided the sign
remains on the property for at least ten days. The sign shall contain the words
"Zoning Decision" or "Subdivision Decision" or similar language for other
determinations in letters at least six inches high and shall identify the means
to contact a local government staff member for information about the
determination. Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice.
Any such posting is the responsibility of the landowner, applicant, or person
who sought the determination. Verification of the posting shall be provided to
the staff member responsible for the determination. Absent an ordinance
provision to the contrary, posting of signs shall not be required.
   (D)   Duration of development approval. Unless a different period is
specified by this chapter or other specific applicable law, including for a
development agreement, a development approval issued pursuant to this chapter
expires one year after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the
development approval has not been substantially commenced.
   (E)   Changes. After a development approval has been issued, no deviations
from the terms of the application or the development approval shall be made
until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been obtained. The
administrator shall follow the same development review and approval process
required for issuance of the development approval in the review and approval of
any major modification of that approval.
   (F)   Inspections. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant
to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance
with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In
exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the
jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable hours for the purposes
of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy. A local government may, upon completion of
work or activity undertaken pursuant to a development approval, make final
inspections and issue a certificate of compliance or occupancy if staff finds
that the completed work complies with all applicable state and local laws and
with the terms of the approval. No building, structure, or use of land that is
subject to a building permit shall be occupied or used until a certificate of
compliance or temporary certificate pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1116 has been
issued.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.203 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General enforcement procedures.
      (1)   Investigation and inspections. Upon the receipt of complaints or
other information suggesting a violation of this chapter, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall investigate the allegations and determine whether a
violation exists. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant to
a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance with
applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In exercising
this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the jurisdiction
of the local government at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials; provided,
however, that the appropriate consent has been given for inspection of areas
not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection warrant has been
secured.
      (2)   Notice of violation. When the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines
work or activity has been undertaken in violation of a development regulation
adopted pursuant to this chapter or other local development regulation or any
state law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of
the state or in violation of the terms of a development approval, a written
notice of violation may be issued. The notice of violation shall be delivered
to the holder of the development approval and to the landowner of the property
involved, if the landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by
personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided
by similar means to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the
work or activity. The notice of violation may be posted on the property. The
person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the local government
that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in
the absence of fraud. Except as provided by G.S. § 160D-1123 or G.S. § 160D-
1207(e) or otherwise provided by law, a notice of violation may be appealed to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
      (3)   Appeal to Zoning Board of Adjustment. An appeal from a notice of
violation shall be taken within 30 days to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. If a
person who receives a warning citation does not appeal the determination within
the time established in G.S. § 160D-405(d), then that person may not later
appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment the subsequent imposition of any
remedy or penalty.
      (4)   Extension of time to correct violation. Where the Zoning
Enforcement Officer determines that the period of time stated in the original
notice of violation is not sufficient for abatement based upon the work
required or consent agreement, the enforcement official may amend the notice to
provide for additional time. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may grant an
extension only by written notice of extension.
      (5)   Enforcement upon failure to correct violation. Upon failure of the
violator to obey the notice of violation, a civil citation shall be issued by
the enforcement official of the Town of Wilkesboro and either served directly
on the violator, duly designated agent, or registered agent if a corporation,
either in person or posted in the United States mail service by first class
mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the
records of Wilkes County or obtained from the violator. The violator shall be
deemed to have been served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation
shall direct the violator to appear before the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or
designee, within 30 days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay
the citation by mail. The violation for which the citation is issued must have
been corrected by the time the citation is paid; otherwise, further citations
shall be issued.
      (6)   Emergency enforcement without notice. If delay in correcting a
violation would seriously threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or
pose an immediate danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, then the
Zoning Enforcement Officer may order the immediate cessation of a violation.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer may seek immediate enforcement, without prior
written notice, through any remedy or penalty authorized by this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work or activity subject to
regulation pursuant to this chapter is undertaken in substantial violation of
any state or local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, staff
may order the specific part of the work or activity that is in violation or
presents such a hazard to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in
writing, directed to the person doing the work or activity, and shall state the
specific work or activity to be stopped, the reasons therefore, and the
conditions under which the work or activity may be resumed. A copy of the order
shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and to the owner
of the property involved by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-
class mail. The person or persons delivering the stop work order shall certify
to the local government that the order was delivered and that certificate shall
be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except as provided by G.S. §
160D-1114 and G.S. § 160D-1208, a stop work order may be appealed pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-405. No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a
stop work order pending a ruling on the appeal.
   (B)   Offenses and remedies.
      (1)   First offense. Any violation occurring once within a 36-month
period shall be considered a first offense. A notice of violation shall be
issued by the Administrator or his/her designee to the violator. Such notice
shall set out the nature of the violation, the section violated, and the date
of the violation. The notice of violation shall provide for a reasonable period
of time by which the violation must be abated or otherwise brought into
compliance with this chapter. The notice shall specify that a second citation
shall incur a civil penalty, together with costs and attorney fees. An appeal
of the Administrator's decision shall be allowed. Upon the expiration of the
deadline stated in the notice of violation, the violator shall be subject to a
civil penalty of $50 for each day that the violation remains on the property
without further notice. Should a violation continue to exist and/or the
violator fails to pay the penalties, the town shall seek to recover the penalty
together with all costs by filing a civil action in the General Court of
Justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt. The collection of a penalty
pursuant hereto shall not foreclose further proceedings for penalties coming
due subsequent to the date of the filing of a prior proceeding. The provisions
of this section may also be enforced through any other appropriate remedies as
prescribed in G.S. Ch. 160D.
      (2)   Repeat offense. Any violation reoccurring on the same property by
the same violator more than once within a 36-month period shall be considered a
repeat offense provided the reoccurrence is a violation of the same section of
this chapter. A notice of violation shall be issued by the Administrator or
his/her designee and shall have an immediate civil penalty of $300. No warning
period shall be granted since this provision applies only to violations that
occur more than once in a 36-month period and proper notice was given for the
initial violation. For each day the repeat violation remains, the violator
shall be subject to a civil penalty of $300. Should a violation continue to
exist and/or the violator fails to pay the penalties, the town shall seek to
recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the
General Court of Justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt. Procedures
for issuance, service, and collection of non-paid penalties shall be as set
forth in this section. The collection of a penalty pursuant hereto shall not
foreclose further proceedings for penalties coming due subsequent to the date
of the filing of a prior proceeding. The provisions of this section may also be
enforced through any other appropriate remedies as prescribed in G.S. Ch. 160D.
      (3)   Other powers. In addition to the enforcement powers specified in
this section, the Town Council may exercise any and all enforcement powers
granted by state law.
      (4)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies and enforcement powers
established in this chapter shall be cumulative, and the town may exercise them
in any order.
   (C)   Remedies and penalties. The town may use any combination of actions
and penalties to prevent, correct, stop, abate, or penalize a violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Injunction and abatement order. In addition to the penalties set
out above, this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by
the General Court of Justice. When violations occur, the town may apply to the
appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the defendant to
correct the violation. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws
and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure
in general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (2)   Revocation of development approvals. In addition to initiation of
enforcement actions under G.S. § 160D-404, development approvals may be revoked
by the local government issuing the development approval by notifying the
holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation. The local government
shall follow the same development review and approval process required for
issuance of the development approval, including any required notice or hearing,
in the review and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development
approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable local development regulation or any state
law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a
development approval by a staff member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
405. If an appeal is filed regarding a development regulation adopted by a
local government pursuant to this chapter, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-405(f)
regarding stays apply.
      (3)   Disapproval of subsequent permits and development approvals. As
long as a violation of this chapter continues and remains uncorrected, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer may withhold, and the Zoning Enforcement Officer and
other town boards may disapprove, any request for permit or development
approval or authorization provided for by this chapter for the land on which
the violation occurs.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.204 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization. Development projects often occur in multiple phases
over several years, requiring a long-term commitment of both public and private
resources. Such developments often create community impacts and opportunities
that are difficult to accommodate within traditional zoning processes. Because
of their scale and duration, such projects often require careful coordination
of public capital facilities planning, financing, and construction schedules
and phasing of the private development. Such projects involve substantial
commitments of private capital, which developers are usually unwilling to risk
without sufficient assurances that development standards will remain stable
through the extended period of the development. Such developments often permit
communities and developers to experiment with different or nontraditional types
of development concepts and standards, while still managing impacts on the
surrounding areas. To better structure and manage development approvals for
such developments and ensure their proper integration into local capital
facilities programs, local governments need flexibility to negotiate such
developments.
   (B)   Local governments may enter into development agreements with
developers, subject to the procedures of this section. In entering into such
agreements, a local government may not exercise any authority or make any
commitment not authorized by general or local act and may not impose any tax or
fee not authorized by otherwise applicable law.
   (C)   This section is supplemental to the powers conferred upon local
governments and does not preclude or supersede rights and obligations
established pursuant to other law regarding development approvals, site-
specific vesting plans, or other provisions of law. A development agreement
shall not exempt the property owner or developer from compliance with the State
Building Code or state or local housing codes that are not part of the local
government's development regulations. When the governing board approves the
rezoning of any property associated with a development agreement executed and
recorded pursuant to this section, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-605(a) apply.
   (D)   Development authorized by a development agreement shall comply with
all applicable laws, including all ordinances, resolutions, regulations,
permits, policies, and laws affecting the development of property, including
laws governing permitted uses of the property, density, intensity, design, and
improvements.
   (E)   Hearing. Before entering into a development agreement, a local
government shall conduct a legislative hearing on the proposed agreement. The
notice provisions of G.S. § 160D-602 applicable to zoning map amendments shall
be followed for this hearing. The notice for the hearing must specify the
location of the property subject to the development agreement, the development
uses proposed on the property, and must specify a place where a copy of the
proposed development agreement can be obtained.
   (F)   Approval of governing board required.
      (1)   A local government may establish procedures and requirements to
consider and enter into development agreements with developers. A development
agreement must be approved by the governing board of a local government
following the procedures specified in G.S. § 160D-1005.
      (2)   The development agreement may, by ordinance, be incorporated, in
whole or in part, into any development regulation adopted by the local
government. A development agreement may be considered concurrently with a
zoning map or text amendment affecting the property and development subject to
the development agreement. A development agreement may be concurrently
considered with and incorporated by reference with a sketch plan or preliminary
plat required under a subdivision regulation or a site plan or other
development approval required under a zoning regulation.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.205 LEGAL NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to regulate and limit the
continued existence of nonconforming uses, nonconforming lots, and
nonconforming structures and like improvements. It is the intent of this
section to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but
not to encourage their survival except under the limited circumstances
established in this section.
   (B)   Establishment.
      (1)   A legal nonconformity, hereafter referred to as "nonconformity", is
a use, lot, structure or other like improvement that complied with all
applicable requirements when it was created, but which does not comply with
subsequent amendments to these requirements.
      (2)   The burden of establishing that a nonconformity is a legal
nonconformity shall be solely upon the owner.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Continuation.
         (a)   A nonconforming use may not be enlarged, extended, altered, or
replaced, unless the change is to a use permitted in the district in which
located, except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section.
         (b)   A nonconforming use may be extended through portions of a
building manifestly arranged or intended for such use, but not otherwise, and
shall not extend to occupy land outside such building, or any additional
building not used for such nonconforming use at the time that nonconforming
status was established.
         (c)   Normal maintenance or repair of a structure housing a
nonconforming use may be performed, provided that the cubic content of the
structure shall not be increased.
      (2)   Discontinuance.
         (a)   If a nonconforming use is abandoned, ceases, or is discontinued
for any reason for a period of more than 180 consecutive days, the use shall be
considered abandoned. Once abandoned, the use's legal nonconforming status
shall be lost and re-establishment of the use shall be prohibited. Any
subsequent use of the property shall comply with the regulations of this
chapter.
         (b)   Evidence of abandonment shall include but not be limited to:
cessation or discontinuance of the particular use, disconnection of water
service to the property, disconnection of electric service to the property,
failure to pay property taxes, or failure to maintain the property.
         (c)   Any conforming structure housing a nonconforming use that is
damaged by any means to an extent exceeding 60 percent of recorded tax value
shall comply with the use standards of this chapter when it is reconstructed.
Any conforming structure housing a nonconforming use that is damaged by any
means to a lesser extent may continue the nonconforming use if it is
reconstructed and used within two years of the damage.
   (D)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   Nonconforming lots, as defined in division (B)(1) of this section,
may be built upon if compliance is achieved with setback dimensions and other
requirements, except lot area or width.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein exempts a lot from meeting the applicable
County or town regulations regarding water and sewer.
   (E)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Normal maintenance and repair are permitted.
      (2)   Structural changes shall be permitted if the change does not
increase the extent of nonconformity and complies with other applicable
requirements for this chapter.
      (3)   Any nonconforming structure which has been damaged to an extent
exceeding 60% of its fair market value shall comply with the dimensional and
other applicable standards of this chapter when it is re-constructed.
      (4)   If a nonconforming structure, or portion thereof, or any structure
or portion thereof containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or
unlawful due to the lack of repairs or maintenance, and is declared to be an
unsafe structure, it shall thereafter be rebuilt and repaired in conformance
with the standards of this chapter.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.206 VESTED RIGHTS AND PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   Findings. The Town of Wilkesboro recognizes that local government
approval of development typically follows significant investment in site
evaluation, planning, development costs, consultant fees, and related expenses.
The Town of Wilkesboro finds that it is necessary and desirable to provide for
the establishment of certain vested rights in order to ensure reasonable
certainty, stability, and fairness in the development regulation process, to
secure the reasonable expectations of landowners, and to foster cooperation
between the public and private sectors in land-use planning and development
regulation. The provisions of this section and G.S. § 160D-108.1 apply.
   (B)   Establishment.
      (1)   Site-specific vesting plan. A site-specific vesting plan consists
of a plan submitted to a local government in which the applicant requests
vesting pursuant to this section, describing with reasonable certainty on the
plan the type and intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of
property. The plan may be in the form of, but not be limited to, any of the
following plans or approvals: a planned unit development plan, a subdivision
plat, a preliminary or general development plan, a special use permit, or any
other land-use approval designation as may be utilized by a local government.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the local government, the plan shall
include the approximate boundaries of the site; significant topographical and
other natural features affecting development of the site; the approximate
location on the site of the proposed buildings, structures, and other
improvements; the approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed
buildings and other structures; and the approximate location of all existing
and proposed infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads, and
pedestrian walkways. What constitutes a site-specific vesting plan under this
section that would trigger a vested right shall be finally determined by the
local government pursuant to a development regulation, and the document that
triggers the vesting shall be so identified at the time of its approval. A
variance does not constitute a site-specific vesting plan, and approval of a
site-specific vesting plan with the condition that a variance be obtained does
not confer a vested right unless and until the necessary variance is obtained.
If a sketch plan or other document fails to describe with reasonable certainty
the type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property, it
may not constitute a site-specific vesting plan.
      (2)   Establishment of vested right. A vested right is established with
respect to any property upon the valid approval of a site-specific vesting plan
as provided in this section. Such a vested right confers upon the landowner the
right to undertake and complete the development and use of the property under
the terms and conditions of the site-specific vesting plan, including any
amendments thereto.
      (3)   Approval and amendment of plans.
         (a)   If a site-specific vesting plan is based on an approval required
by a local development regulation, the local government shall provide whatever
notice and hearing is required for that underlying approval. A duration of the
underlying approval that is less than two years does not affect the duration of
the site-specific vesting plan established under this section. If the site-
specific vesting plan is not based on such an approval, a legislative hearing
with notice as required by G.S. § 160D-602 shall be held.
         (b)   A local government may approve a site-specific vesting plan upon
any terms and conditions that may reasonably be necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. Conditional approval results in a vested right,
although failure to abide by the terms and conditions of the approval will
result in a forfeiture of vested rights. A local government shall not require a
landowner to waive the landowner's vested rights as a condition of
developmental approval. A site-specific vesting plan is deemed approved upon
the effective date of the local government's decision approving the plan or
another date determined by the governing board upon approval. An approved site-
specific vesting plan and its conditions may be amended with the approval of
the owner and the local government as follows: any substantial modification
must be reviewed and approved in the same manner as the original approval.
      (4)   Continuing review. Following approval or conditional approval of a
site-specific vesting plan, a local government may make subsequent reviews and
require subsequent approvals by the local government to ensure compliance with
the terms and conditions of the original approval, provided that these reviews
and approvals are not inconsistent with the original approval. The local
government may, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(f), revoke the original approval
for failure to comply with applicable terms and conditions of the original
approval or the applicable local development regulations.
   (C)   Duration and termination.
      (1)   A vested right for a site-specific vesting plan remains vested for
a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or
modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by the
local government.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a local government
may provide for rights to be vested for a period exceeding two years but not
exceeding five years where warranted in light of all relevant circumstances,
including, but not limited to, the size and phasing of development, the level
of investment, the need for the development, economic cycles, and market
conditions or other considerations. These determinations are at the discretion
of the local government and shall be made following the process specified for
the particular form of a site-specific vesting plan.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the provisions of G.S. §§ 160D-
1111 and 160D-1115 apply, except that a permit does not expire and shall not be
revoked because of the running of time while a vested right under this section
is outstanding.
      (4)   A right vested as provided in this section terminates at the end of
the applicable vesting period with respect to buildings and uses for which no
valid building permit applications have been filed.
   (D)   Subsequent changes prohibited and exceptions.
      (1)   A vested right, once established as provided for in this section,
precludes any zoning action by a local government which would change, alter,
impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the
property as set forth in an approved site-specific vesting plan, except under
one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   With the written consent of the affected landowner.
         (b)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary
hearing, that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of
the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the site-
specific vesting plan.
         (c)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation
for all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including,
but not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal, and other consulting fees incurred
after approval by the local government, together with interest as provided
under G.S. § 160D-106. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the
value of the property which is caused by the action.
         (d)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary
hearing, that the landowner or the landowner's representative intentionally
supplied inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations that made a
difference in the approval by the local government of the site-specific vesting
plan or the phased development plan.
         (e)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site-specific
vesting plan or the phased development plan, in which case the local government
may modify the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or
federal law has a fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and
an evidentiary hearing.
      (2)   The establishment of a vested right under this section does not
preclude the application of overlay zoning or other development regulations
which impose additional requirements but do not affect the allowable type or
intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations which are general in nature and
are applicable to all property subject to development regulation by a local
government, including, but not limited to, building, fire, plumbing,
electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise, applicable new regulations become
effective with respect to property which is subject to a site-specific vesting
plan upon the expiration or termination of the vesting rights period provided
for in this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right does not preclude, change, or impair the authority of a local
government to adopt and enforce development regulations governing nonconforming
situations or uses.
   (E)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   The vested rights granted by this section run with the land except
for the use of land for outdoor advertising governed by G.S. §§ 136-131.1 and
136-131.2 in which case the rights granted by this section run with the owner
of a permit issued by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
      (2)   After approval of a site-specific vesting plan, all successors to
the original landowner are entitled to exercise these rights.
      (3)   Nothing in this section precludes judicial determination, based on
common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested right exists
in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred. Except as
expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be construed
to alter the existing common law.
   (F)   Permit choice.
      (1)   Permit choice. If a land development regulation is amended between
the time a development permit application was submitted and a development
permit decision is made or if a land development regulation is amended after a
development permit decision has been challenged and found to be wrongfully
denied or illegal, G.S. § 143-755 applies.
      (2)   Vested rights. Amendments in land development regulations are not
applicable or enforceable without the written consent of the owner with regard
to any of the following:
         (a)   Buildings or uses of buildings or land for which a development
permit application has been submitted and subsequently issued in accordance
with G.S. § 143-755.
         (b)   Subdivisions of land for which a development permit application
authorizing the subdivision has been submitted and subsequently issued in
accordance with G.S. § 143-755.
         (c)   A site-specific vesting plan pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.1.
         (d)   A multi-phased development pursuant to this section.
         (e)   1.   A vested right established by the terms of a development
agreement authorized by this chapter.
            2.   A vested right, once established as provided for in this
section or by common law, precludes any action by a local government that would
change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or
use of the property allowed by the applicable land development regulation or
regulations, except where a change in state or federal law mandating local
government enforcement occurs after the development application is submitted
that has a fundamental and retroactive effect on the development or use.
      (3)   Duration of vesting.
         (a)   Upon issuance of a development permit, the statutory vesting
granted by G.S. § 160D-108 for a development project is effective upon filing
of the application in accordance with G.S. § 143-755, for so long as the permit
remains valid pursuant to law. Unless otherwise specified by this section or
other statute, local development permits expire one year after issuance unless
work authorized by the permit has substantially commenced. A local land
development regulation may provide for a longer permit expiration period.
         (b)   Except where a longer vesting period is provided by statute or
land development regulation, the statutory vesting granted by this section,
once established, expires for an uncompleted development project if development
work is intentionally and voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less
than 24 consecutive months, and the statutory vesting period granted by this
section for a nonconforming use of property expires if the use is intentionally
and voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24 consecutive
months. The 24-month discontinuance period is automatically tolled during the
pendency of any Zoning Board of Adjustment proceeding or civil action in a
state or federal trial or appellate court regarding the validity of a
development permit, the use of the property, or the existence of the statutory
vesting period granted by this section. The 24-month discontinuance period is
also tolled during the pendency of any litigation involving the development
project or property that is the subject of the vesting.
      (4)   Multiple permits for development project. Subject to G.S. § 160D-
108, where multiple local development permits are required to complete a
development project, the development permit applicant may choose the version of
each of the local land development regulations applicable to the project upon
submittal of the application for the initial development permit. This provision
is applicable only for those subsequent development permit applications filed
within 18 months of the date following the approval of an initial permit. For
purposes of the vesting protections of this section, an erosion and
sedimentation control permit or a sign permit is not an initial development
permit.
      (5)   Multi-phased development. A multi-phased development is vested for
the entire development with the land development regulations then in place at
the time a site plan approval is granted for the initial phase of the multi-
phased development. A right which has been vested as provided for in this
section remains vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan
approval is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
      (6)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or
common law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to
the Zoning Administrator or other officer designated by a land development
regulation, who shall make an initial determination as to the existence of the
vested right. The decision of the Zoning Administrator or officer may be
appealed under G.S. § 160D-405. On appeal, the existence of a vested right
shall be reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination or pursuing
an appeal under G.S. § 160D-405, a person claiming a vested right may bring an
original civil action as provided by G.S. § 160D-1403.1.
      (7)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following definitions
apply:
         DEVELOPMENT. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(1).
         DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(2).
         LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(3).
         MULTI-PHASED DEVELOPMENT. A development containing 25 acres or more
that is both of the following:
            1.   Submitted for development permit approval to occur in more
than one phase.
            2.   Subject to a master development plan with committed elements
showing the type and intensity of use of each phase.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.207 LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The governing board may amend the text of this chapter or the Official
Zoning Map upon compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Amendment petition. A petition for amendment to the text of this
chapter or to the Official Zoning Map may be proposed by the governing board,
the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Adjustment, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, or other interested person or agency. Forms and fees are available
from the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Initial zoning. To exercise zoning powers a local government shall
create or designate a planning board. The Planning Board shall prepare or shall
review and comment upon a proposed zoning regulation, including the full text
of such regulation and maps showing proposed district boundaries.
   (D)   Zoning amendments. Subsequent to initial adoption of a zoning
regulation, all proposed amendments to the zoning regulation or zoning map
shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. The Planning
Board may hold public meetings hearings while preparing the regulation. Upon
completion, the Planning Board shall make a written recommendation regarding
adoption of the regulation to the governing board.
   (E)   Recommendation. Within a maximum of 60 days after the regular meeting
at which a review of the application is scheduled, the Planning Board shall
submit a recommendation to the governing board concerning the disposition of
the application. If no written report is received from the Planning Board, the
governing board may act on the amendment without the Planning Board report. The
governing board is not bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning
Board.
   (F)   Public hearing. Following receipt of a recommendation from the
Planning Board, the governing board must hold a public hearing before formally
acting on the proposed amendment. The governing board shall not hold its
required hearing or take action until it has received a recommendation
regarding the regulation from the Planning Board. Following its required
hearing, the governing board may refer the regulation back to the Planning
Board for any further recommendations that the board may wish to make prior to
final action by the governing board in adopting, modifying, or rejecting the
regulation.
   (G)   Review of other ordinances and actions. Any development regulation
other than a zoning regulation that is proposed to be adopted may be referred
to the Planning Board for review and comment.
   (H)   Plan consistency. When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or
map amendments, the Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the
proposed action is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has been adopted
and any other officially adopted plan that is applicable. The Planning Board
shall provide a written recommendation to the governing board that addresses
plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate, but a comment by the
Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive
plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by
the governing board. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
zoning map amendment" under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement
describing plan consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how
the analysis and policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the
recommendation made.
   (I)   Governing board plan consistency. When adopting or rejecting any
zoning text or map amendment, the governing board shall approve a brief
statement describing whether its action is consistent or inconsistent with an
adopted comprehensive plan. The requirement for a plan consistency statement
may also be met by a clear indication in the minutes of the governing board
that at the time of action on the amendment the governing board was aware of
and considered the Planning Board's recommendations and any relevant portions
of an adopted comprehensive plan. If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the
action was deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment
shall have the effect of also amending any future land-use map in the approved
plan, and no additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be
required. A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered
concurrently. The plan consistency statement is not subject to judicial review.
If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale zoning map amendment"
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the governing board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
   (J)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings. When adopting or
rejecting any petition for a zoning map amendment, a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the governing
board. This statement of reasonableness may consider, among other factors, (i)
the size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the area proposed to be
rezoned; (ii) the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors, and
the surrounding community; (iii) the relationship between the current actual
and permissible development on the tract and adjoining areas and the
development that would be permissible under the proposed amendment; (iv) why
the action taken is in the public interest; and (v) any changed conditions
warranting the amendment. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale
zoning map amendment under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the governing board statement on
reasonableness may address the overall rezoning.
   (K)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and the
plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a single
statement.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.208 PROCEDURES & NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Hearing with published notice. Before adopting, amending, or repealing
any development regulation authorized by this chapter, the governing board
shall hold a legislative hearing. A notice of the hearing shall be given once a
week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the area. The notice shall be published the first time not less
than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date scheduled for the hearing.
In computing such period, the day of publication is not to be included but the
day of the hearing shall be included.
   (B)   Ordinance required. A development regulation adopted shall be adopted
by ordinance.
   (C)   Down-zoning. No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that
down-zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the
written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
local government. For purposes of this section, "down-zoning" means a zoning
ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage.
      (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
   (D)   Mailed notice. The owners of affected parcels of land and the owners
of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed a notice of
the hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment by first-class mail at the last
addresses listed for such owners in the county tax records. Properties are
"abutting" even if separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation
corridor or public right-of-way. This notice must be deposited in the mail at
least ten but not more than 25 days prior to the date of the hearing. If the
zoning map amendment is being proposed in conjunction with an expansion of
municipal extraterritorial planning and development regulation jurisdiction
under G.S. § 160D-202, a single hearing on the zoning map amendment and the
boundary amendment may be held. In this instance, the initial notice of the
zoning map amendment hearing may be combined with the boundary hearing notice
and the combined hearing notice mailed at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   Optional notice for large-scale zoning map amendments. The first-class
mail notice is not required if the zoning map amendment proposes to change the
zoning designation of more than 50 properties, owned by at least 50 different
property owners, and the local government elects to use the expanded published
notice under G.S. §§ 160D-601 and 160D-602(b).
   (F)   Posted notice. When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the local
government shall prominently post notice of the hearing on the site proposed
for the amendment or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The
notice shall be posted within the same time period specified for mailed notices
of the hearing. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map
amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required but the local
government shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to
interested persons.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.209 PROTEST PETITIONS.
   (A)   In case of a protest against any amendment or change of this chapter,
or allowed by this chapter, signed by the owners of 20% or more, either of the
area of the lots included in such proposed change; or of those immediately
adjacent thereto, either in the rear thereof or on either side thereof,
extending 100 feet there from; or of those directly opposite thereto extending
100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots; such amendment shall
not become effective except by favorable vote of three-fourths of all members
of the governing board.
   (B)   No protest against any change or amendment of this chapter shall be
valid or effective under the provisions of the foregoing division unless such
protest is in the form of a written petition actually bearing the signatures of
the requisite number of property owners and stating that the signers do protest
the proposed change or amendment, and unless such protest shall have been
received by the governing board in sufficient time to allow at least two normal
workdays prior to the date established for a public hearing on the proposed
change or amendment to determine the sufficiency and accuracy of the petition.
Such petition shall be accompanied by a map or sketch clearly showing the
property of the petitioners in such detail as to show that the ownership
requirements of the foregoing division are met, which would compel a three-
fourths favorable vote by the governing board.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.210 WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   A zoning petition may not be withdrawn by the applicant after publication,
or scheduled publication which cannot be cancelled, of notice of public hearing
except by permission of the governing board before which the petition is
pending for action or consideration. The filing fees are not refundable, except
that the Zoning Enforcement Officer may authorize refund of the fees if no
notice expenses related to the petition have been incurred.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.211 EFFECT OF DENIAL ON SUBSEQUENT PETITIONS.
   (A)   When the governing board shall have acted upon an application or the
application shall have been withdrawn after the first notice of the public
hearing thereon, the governing board shall not receive another application for
the same or similar text or map amendment, affecting the same property or a
portion of it, until the expiration of a one-year period, extending from the
date of action or withdrawal, as appropriate.
   (B)   The governing board may on its own motion, however, initiate an
amendment of this nature prior to the expiration of the one-year period.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.212 MINOR CHANGES.
   Typographical errors, spelling changes, numerical reference errors, errors
in section or page numbering, or other purely non-substantive editorial changes
may be corrected by the Zoning Enforcement Officer without formal adoption by
the governing board provided that the changes necessary to correct such errors
do not change the meaning of the ordinance. Any correction made pursuant to
this section must be documented to the governing body.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.213 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Process required. Boards shall follow quasi-judicial procedures in
determining appeals of administrative decisions, special use permits,
certificates of appropriateness, variances, or any other quasi-judicial
decision.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant
to this chapter shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by the local development regulation. In the absence of
evidence to the contrary, the local government may rely on the county tax
listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice. The notice
must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not more than 25 days,
prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time period, the local
government shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that
is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
The board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without
further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a given date and a
quorum of the board is not then present, the hearing shall be continued until
the next regular board meeting without further advertisement.
   (C)   Administrative materials. The clerk to the board shall transmit all
applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the matter being
considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to the members of
the board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are distributed to the
board a copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant and to the
landowner if that person is not the appellant or applicant. The administrative
materials shall become a part of the hearing record. The administrative
materials may be provided in written or electronic form. Objections to
inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be made before or during
the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be made by the board at the
hearing.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence.
      (1)   The applicant, the local government, and any person who would have
standing to appeal the decision under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) shall have the right
to participate as a party at the evidentiary hearing. Other witnesses may
present competent, material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as
allowed by the board.
      (2)   Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary issues,
including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the standing of a
party, may be made to the board. The board chair shall rule on any objections,
and the chair's rulings may be appealed to the full board. These rulings are
also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Objections based
on jurisdictional issues may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
   (E)   Appearance of official new issues. The official who made the decision
or the person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no
longer employed by the local government, shall be present at the evidentiary
hearing as a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to
matters stated in a notice of appeal. If any party or the local government
would be unduly prejudiced by the presentation of matters not presented in the
notice of appeal, the board shall continue the hearing.
   (F)   Oaths. The chair of the board or any member acting as chair and the
clerk to the board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (G)   Subpoenas. The board making a quasi-judicial decision under this
chapter through the chair or, in the chair's absence, anyone acting as chair
may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request
issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the local government, and any person
with standing under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) may make a written request to the chair
explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled. The chair shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be
relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The chair shall
rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas
made by the chair may be immediately appealed to the full board. If a person
fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this division, the board
or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General Court of Justice for
an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
   (H)   Appeals in nature of certiorari. When hearing an appeal pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-947(e) or any other appeal in the nature of certiorari, the hearing
shall be based on the record, and the scope of review shall be as provided in
G.S. § 160D-1402(j).
   (I)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on
the board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter under G.S. § 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the board
for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available to take the place of such members.
   (J)   Decisions. The board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing, reflect the board's determination of contested
facts and their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the
board and signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
clerk to the board or such other office or official as the development
regulation specifies. The decision of the board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person
required to provide notice shall certify to the local government that proper
notice has been made, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud.
   (K)   Judicial review. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Appeals shall be filed within the times specified
in G.S. § 160D-1405(d).
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.214 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Intent. Special Uses, because of their inherent nature, extent of
development, or external effects, require special care in the control of their
location, design and methods of operation in order to ensure protection of the
public health, safety and welfare. It is the intent of this section to set
forth the additional information required for submittal and consideration of
specials uses and to state the standards by which each application shall be
judged.
   (B)   General standards and findings of fact. The Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall not approve any special use unless it finds:
      (1)   The use will not materially endanger the public health and safety
if located where proposed and developed and operated according to the plan as
submitted.
      (2)   The use, which is listed as a special use in the district in which
it is proposed to be located, complies with all applicable regulations and
standards.
      (3)   The use will not substantially injure the value of contiguous
property, or the use is a public necessity.
      (4)   The use is in compliance with the general plans for the physical
development of the town as embodied in these regulations, or portion thereof,
adopted by the governing board.
   (C)   Application. Applications for approval of a special use permit shall
be filed on forms available from the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Applications
which are not complete shall be returned forthwith to the applicant, with a
notation of the deficiencies in the application. The following information
shall be submitted as part of a request for a special use permit:
      (1)   A completed written application narrative for a special use permit
along with standard application fees required by the town shall be filed with
the Zoning Enforcement Officer. All other reasonable application expenses
incurred by the town for the processing of a special use permit application
shall be paid prior to the issuance of a final notification of action taken,
and the associated issuance of a special use permit, if any. The application,
unless determined to not be applicable by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, shall
include the following items:
         (a)   Contact information of the applicant and all property owner(s),
if different from the applicant, deed book and page number of the property
description.
         (b)   Property owners, as well as adjacent owners, names, addresses,
tax parcel numbers, and existing uses per parcel.
         (c)   A scaled boundary survey drawn to an appropriate scale prepared
by and certified to be correct by a surveyor or engineer registered with State
of North Carolina showing the total acreage, present zoning classification(s),
date and north arrow, extent of area to be developed, locations and widths of
all easements and rights-of-way within or adjacent to the site.
         (d)   A site plan showing, but not limited to all existing and/or
proposed buildings, storage areas, parking and access areas, proposed size,
layout and setbacks of land and proposed structures, planned illumination, and
proposed number, type and location of signs.
         (e)   Proposed or existing fencing, screening, gates, parking, service
and storage areas.
         (f)   Location of all areas on the site subject to flood hazard or
inundation as shown on flood maps or soil maps as well as applicable watershed
boundaries.
         (g)   Existing and proposed topography including all water courses on
the site, including direction of flow.
         (h)   Plans for providing potable water and for the treatment of
wastewater.
         (i)   Proposed phasing, if any, and approximate completion time of the
project.
         (j)   Access to site including sight distances of all roads used for
access.
         (k)   Architectural elevations of all structures proposed to be used
in the development.
         (l)   An application fee as described in Town of Wilkesboro’s Schedule
of Fees.
         (m)   Written evidence showing how the proposed use complies with
special use permit standards as described in §§
156.501 through
156.531.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Notice and procedures for the public hearing shall be administered
as described in §
156.213 Quasi-Judicial Procedures of this chapter.
      (2)   Action on the application shall be one of the following:
         (a)   Approval;
         (b)   Approval subject to conditions; or
         (c)   Denial.
      (3)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment denies the permit, the reasons
for its action shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting and findings of
fact.
   (E)   Imposed conditions.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may impose such reasonable
conditions upon approval of a special use permit as will afford protection of
the public health, safety, and general welfare, ensure that substantial justice
is done, and equitable treatment provided. Any conditions based on time must be
consistent with the provisions in §
156.206 regarding vested rights. Such conditions shall run with the land and
use and shall be binding on the original applicant(s) as well as all
successors, assigns, and heirs.
      (2)   Where appropriate, such conditions may include requirements that
street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that provision
be made for recreational space and facilities. Conditions and safeguards
imposed under this section shall not include requirements for which the local
government does not have authority under statute to regulate nor requirements
for which the courts have held to be unenforceable if imposed directly by the
local government, including, without limitation, taxes, impact fees, building
design elements within the scope of G.S. § 160D-702(b), driveway-related
improvements in excess of those allowed in G.S. §§ 136-18(29) and 160A-307, or
other unauthorized limitations on the development or use of land.
   (F)   Notice of decision.
      (1)   The town clerk shall cause notice of the disposition of the
application to be delivered by certified mail to the applicant and any
aggrieved party who has filed a written request for a copy with the Board at
the time of the hearing and shall record a copy of the decision.
      (2)   The letter notifying the applicant of the Board's action shall be
approved and signed by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
      (3)   In the case of approval or approval with conditions, the Town Clerk
shall issue the necessary special use permit findings of fact in accordance
with the action of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Clerk shall record it
in the office of the Wilkes County Register of Deeds within 30 days of receipt.
   (G)   When the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have denied an application
or the application shall have been withdrawn, by written notice, after
publication of the first public hearing notice, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall not accept another application for the same or similar special use,
affecting the same property or a portion thereof, until the expiration of one
year from the date of denial or withdrawal.
   (H)   Appeal. A decision by the Zoning Board of Adjustment on an application
for a special use permit may be appealed only to the Superior Court by an
aggrieved party. Such appeal shall be in the nature of certiorari and must be
filed within 30 days of filing of the decision in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (I)   Revocation and modifications.
      (1)   A special use permit may be revoked by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment after a finding of the existence of any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   That the physical construction or activity authorized by a
special use permit has not commenced within the time limit set within §
156.202(D).
         (b)   That the governmental licensees or permits required for the
activity authorized by a special use permit have not been obtained or have
subsequently been terminated; or
         (c)   That any of the applicable requirements of this section or any
conditions attached to the special use permit, or modification, have been
violated.
         (d)   On request by the holder of a special use permit, the Zoning
Board of Adjustment may, for good cause shown, extend the time limits for
commencement of authorized construction or activity by up to 12 months.
         (e)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may consider reapplication for a
special use permit on property on which previous permit has been revoked
provided that all of the standards which are set forth in this chapter are met.
         (f)   Any other modification or revocation of a special use permit
shall follow the same process for approval as is applicable to the approval of
a special use permit. If multiple parcels of land are subject to a special use
permit, the owners of individual parcels may apply for permit modification so
long as the modification would not result in other properties failing to meet
the terms of the special use permit or regulations. Any modifications approved
apply only to those properties whose owners apply for the modification. The
regulation may require that special use permits be recorded with the register
of deeds.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.215 VARIANCES.
   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter
of a zoning regulation, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall vary any of the
provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all of the following:
   (A)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of the
regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
   (B)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
   (C)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or the
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship.
   (D)   (1)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved.
      (2)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance. Any other development
regulation that regulates land use or development may provide for variances
from the provisions of those ordinances consistent with the provisions of this
section.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.216 FEES.
   The local government shall have the authority to enact ordinances,
procedures, and fee schedules relating to the administration and the
enforcement of this chapter. The local government shall have the power to fix
reasonable fees for support, administration, and implementation of programs.
The schedule of fees shall be adopted by the governing board and shall be
maintained for public inspection in the office of the local government clerk.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.217 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Composition. The Planning Board shall consist of at least nine
members, each to be appointed for three-year terms. In appointing the members
or in the filling of vacancies caused by the expiration of the terms of
existing members, the governing board may appoint certain members for less than
three years so that the terms of all members shall not expire at the same time.
All the members shall reside within the Planning and Development Jurisdiction
as established pursuant to this chapter. The Board may appoint advisory bodies
and committees as appropriate.
   (B)   Joint County Planning Board. A joint Planning Board is created
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-301(a)(2).
   (C)   Compensation. Members shall serve with such compensation as shall be
determined by the governing board. Also, members may be removed by the Council
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, and such removal
shall be reported at the next meeting of the governing board and recorded in
the minutes of such meeting.
   (D)   By-laws. The Planning Board shall adopt by-laws and rules of procedure
that shall govern its proceedings.
   (E)   Duties and powers. A Planning Board may be assigned the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update and
recommend to the governing board a comprehensive plan, and such other plans as
deemed appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data collection,
mapping, and analysis.
      (2)   To facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and participation
in the planning process.
      (3)   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulations, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner.
      (4)   To advise the governing board concerning the implementation of
plans, including, but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text and
map amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604.
      (5)   To exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the governing board may direct.
      (6)   To provide a preliminary forum for review of quasi-judicial
decisions, provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as
a basis for the deciding board.
      (7)   To perform any other related duties that the governing board may
direct.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.218 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Composition. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall consist of at least
five members, each to be appointed for three-year terms. In appointing the
members or in the filling of vacancies caused by the expiration of the terms of
existing members, the governing board may appoint certain members for less than
three years so that the terms of all members shall not expire at the same time.
All the members shall reside within the Planning and Development Jurisdiction
as established pursuant to this chapter. The Board may appoint advisory bodies
and committees as appropriate.
   (B)   Alternate members. The governing board may appoint alternate members
to serve on the board in the absence or temporary disqualification of any
regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment of a member. Alternate
members shall be appointed for the same term, at the same time, and in the same
manner as regular members. Each alternate member serving on behalf of any
regular member has all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (C)   Compensation. Members shall serve with such compensation as shall be
determined by the governing board. Also, members may be removed by the Council
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, and such removal
shall be reported at the next meeting of the governing board and recorded in
the minutes of such meeting.
   (D)   By-laws. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall adopt by-laws and rules
of procedure that shall govern its proceedings.
   (E)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by any administrative official charged with the
enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   To hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   To review applications for special use permits as authorized under
this chapter.
      (4)   To make interpretations of the Official Zoning Map and to pass upon
disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and similar
questions as arise in the administration of this chapter.
      (5)   To enter, at reasonable times, upon private lands and make
examinations or surveys as necessary for the performance of its official
duties.
      (6)   To request Town Council to hold public hearings on matters within
the purview of the Board.
      (7)   To hear and decide any other matter as required by the provisions
of this chapter or the Town of Wilkesboro Code of Ordinances.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.219 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Composition. The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of at
least five members, each to be appointed for three-year terms. In appointing
the members or in the filling of vacancies caused by the expiration of the
terms of existing members, the governing board may appoint certain members for
less than three years so that the terms of all members shall not expire at the
same time. A majority of the members of the Commission shall have demonstrated
special interest, experience, or education in history, architecture,
archaeology, or related fields. All the members shall reside within the
Planning and Development Jurisdiction as established pursuant to this chapter.
The Commission may appoint advisory bodies and committees as appropriate.
   (B)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance.
      (2)   Recommend to the governing board areas to be designated by
ordinance as "Historic Districts" and individual structures, buildings, sites,
areas, or objects to be designated by ordinance as "Landmarks."
      (3)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included
interest, including options to purchase, to properties within established
districts or to any such properties designated as landmarks to hold, manage,
preserve, restore, and improve such properties, and to exchange or dispose of
the property by public or private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to
covenants or other legally binding restrictions that will secure appropriate
rights of public access and promote the preservation of the property.
      (4)   Restore, preserve, and operate historic properties.
      (5)   Recommend to the governing board that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for cause.
      (6)   Conduct an educational program regarding historic properties and
districts within its jurisdiction.
      (7)   Cooperate with the state, federal, and local governments in
pursuance of the purposes of this section. The governing board or the
commission, when authorized by the governing board, may contract with the
state, or the United States of America, or any agency of either, or with any
other organization provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or
federal law.
      (8)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee, or agent of the commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.
      (9)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation
element as part of the local government's comprehensive plan.
      (10)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions, or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks, pursuant to this section.
      (11)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area, or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary or appropriate.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.301 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Official Zoning Map. Designates the location and boundaries of the
various zoning districts established in this chapter within the town and its
ETJ (hereinafter "town") and is incorporated herein by reference. The official
zoning map shall be digitally maintained for public inspection in the office of
the Wilkesboro Planning and Community Development Department.
   (B)   Zone district boundaries. Unless otherwise specified, zone district
boundaries are lot lines or the centerline of streets, alleys, railroad rights-
of-way, or such lines extended. Where a zoning district boundary divides a land
parcel under a single ownership into two districts, then the entire parcel
shall be zoned for the less restrictive use by the adjustment of the
boundaries, provided that the boundary adjustment is a distance of less than
100 feet.
   (C)   Changes to Official Zoning Map. Changes made in zoning district
boundaries or other matters portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Changes shall be entered on
the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the
governing board.
   (D)   Incorporation by reference. Development regulations may reference or
incorporate by reference flood insurance rate maps, watershed boundary maps, or
other maps officially adopted or promulgated by state and federal agencies. For
these maps, a regulation text or zoning map may reference a specific officially
adopted map or may incorporate by reference the most recent officially adopted
version of such maps.
   (E)   Mapping disputes. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall have the
authority to interpret the Official Zoning Map and decide where the boundaries
of the different districts fall, if in dispute.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.302 ZONING DISTRICTS - INTENT AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   R-20A - Residential/Agricultural.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the R-20A District is to provide for
development compatible with bona-fide agricultural uses and rural residential
uses, such as manufactured housing.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   In the town's extraterritorial jurisdiction; and
         (b)   Adjacent to areas zoned R-20, B-3, M-2.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements. There are two lot size
requirements for the district depending on whether a lot is served by
centralized water or sewer.
 
                                          Minimum Side
Minimum Lot Minimum    Maximum   Minimum  Setback (ft.)       Minimum  Maximum
Area (sq.   Lot Width  Density   Front                        Rear     Building
ft.)        (ft.)      (du/acre) Setback  Interior Corner Lot Setback  Height
                                 (ft.)    Lot                 (ft.)    (ft.)

20,000
(without                                           25         30
centralized 100        2.18      40       15       [see §    [see §  35
water or                                           156.502]   156.502]
sewer)
12,000
(with                                              20         25
centralized 90         3.63      35       10       [see §    [see §  35
water or                                           156.502]   156.502]
sewer)
 
   (B)   R-20 - Suburban Residential.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the Suburban Residential District is to
provide areas suitable for low- to moderate-density residential development and
supporting public, institutional, and other compatible uses that are designed,
constructed, and maintained to avoid detracting from a healthy and
aesthetically-pleasing residential environment. This district is generally
designed to encourage development of single-family detached residences.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned R-20A, R-8, B-2, B-3, M-2, PUD, or areas
laying just outside of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town;
         (b)   Neither centralized water nor sewer exists at the site;
         (c)   Either centralized water or sewer exists at the site, but not
both.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements. There are two lot size
requirements for the district depending on whether a lot is served by
centralized water or sewer.
 
                                          Minimum Side
Minimum Lot Minimum    Maximum   Minimum  Setback (ft.)       Minimum  Maximum
Area (sq.   Lot Width  Density   Front                        Rear     Building
ft.)        (ft.)      (du/acre) Setback  Interior Corner Lot Setback  Height
                                 (ft.)    Lot                 (ft.)    (ft.)

20,000
(without                                           25         30
centralized 100        2.18      40       15       [see §    [see §  35
water or                                           156.502]   156.502]
sewer)
12,000
(with                                              20         25
centralized 90         3.63      35       10       [see §    [see §  35
water or                                           156.502]   156.502]
sewer)
 
   (C)   R-8 - Single-Family Residential.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the Single-Family Residential District is to
provide areas suitable for moderate-density residential development and
supporting public, institutional, and other compatible uses that are designed,
constructed, and maintained to avoid detracting from a healthy and
aesthetically-pleasing residential environment. This district will be served by
centralized water and sewer facilities.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned R-20, R-6, B-3, B-1, or PUD;
         (b)   Centralized water and sewer exists at the site, or are to be
installed as part of the development process;
         (c)   There is direct vehicular access to a local or collector street.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements.
 
                                         Minimum Side
Minimum               Maximum   Minimum  Setback (ft.)       Minimum  Maximum
Lot Area  Minimum Lot Density   Front                        Rear     Building
(sq. ft.) Width (ft.) (du/acre) Setback  Interior Corner Lot Setback  Height
                                (ft.)    Lot                 (ft.)    (ft.)

                                                  20         25
8,000     70          5.44      35       10       [see §    [see §  35
                                                  156.502]   156.502]
 
   (D)   R-6 - General Residential.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the General Residential District is to
provide areas for higher-density single-family residential, two-family
residential, multi-family residential, and other compatible uses that are
designed, constructed, and maintained to avoid detracting from a healthy and
aesthetically-pleasing residential environment. This district also serves as a
transitional district for areas that may be changing from single-family to more
intense uses such as multi-family or professional uses. This district will be
located in urbanized areas with access to a full range of urban services.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned R-8, B-1, B-2, B-3, M-2, or PUD;
         (b)   Centralized water and sewer exists at the site, or are to be
installed as part of the development process;
         (c)   There is direct vehicular access to a local or collector street.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements. There are several lot size
requirements for the district depending on the use.
 
                                          Minimum Side
Minimum                Maximum   Minimum  Setback (ft.)       Minimum  Maximum
Lot Area   Minimum Lot Density   Front                        Rear     Building
(sq. ft.)  Width (ft.) (du/acre) Setback  Interior Corner Lot Setback  Height
                                 (ft.)    Lot                 (ft.)    (ft.)

6,000 -                                            18         30
single-    60          7.26      25       8        [see §    [see §  35
family                                             156.502]   156.502]
9,000 -                                            20         25
two-family 70          9.68      30       10       [see §    [see §  35
                                                   156.502]   156.502]
9,000 -                                            22         30
multi-     80          10.89     35       12       [see §    [see §  50
family                                             156.502]   156.502]
6,000 -                                            18         20
other uses 60          ---       25       8        [see §    [see §  35
                                                   156.502]   156.502]
 
   (E)   B-1 - Central Business.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the Central Business District is to
encourage a mixed-use, pedestrian-oriented business district. The district is
intended to accommodate a wide range of uses including retail, office, service,
and institutional, as well as residential uses on floors above street level.
Performance standards shall be used to ensure the absence of adverse impacts
beyond the zoning district boundaries.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned B-1, B-2, B-3, or R-6;
         (b)   Centralized water and sewer exists at the site, or are to be
installed as part of the development process;
         (c)   Development is at a high density and pedestrian facilities
already exist or can be reasonably extended.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements.
 
                                 Minimum Side Setback
Minimum Lot             Minimum  (ft.)                 Minimum  Maximum
Area (sq.   Minimum Lot Front                          Rear     Building
ft.)        Width (ft.) Setback  Interior   Corner Lot Setback  Height (ft.)
                        (ft.)    Lot                   (ft.)

---         ---         ---      See §     ---        ---      40
                                 156.403(C)
 
   (F)   B-2 - General Business.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the General Business District is to provide
suitably situated and sized sites that allow a broad range of commercial,
office, and service uses. In most cases, this district will be located along
thoroughfares, however, the district is not intended to encourage strip
commercial development. Performance standards shall be used to ensure the
absence of adverse impacts beyond the zoning district boundary.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned B-1, B-2, B-3, M-1, or M-2;
         (b)   Centralized water and sewer exists at the site, or are to be
installed as part of the development process;
         (c)   Development will have access via an arterial street.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements.
 
                             Minimum Side
Minimum   Minimum   Minimum  Setback (ft.)   Minimum
Lot Area  Lot Width Front                    Rear     Maximum Building
(sq. ft.) (ft.)     Setback  Interior Corner Setback  Height (ft.)
                    (ft.)    Lot      Lot    (ft.)

                             See §                   Primary: 50
10,000    100       30       156.403  20     20       Secondary: 65 [See §
                             (C)                      156.403(A)]
 
   (G)   B-3 - Limited Business.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the Limited Business district is to
accommodate moderately intense business and institutional uses in proximity to
areas of low intensity use, such as residential neighborhoods. This district
may also be used in rural areas where urban services are not provided.
Performance standards shall be used to ensure the absence of adverse impacts
beyond the area occupied by the building.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned R-20, R-6, B-1, B-2, B-3, M-1, or M-2;
         (b)   Adequate water and sewer facilities exist either through
centralized provision or other means;
         (c)   The site would provide a buffer or step down in the intensity of
land use from a commercial or industrial use to a less intense use;
      (3)   General dimensional requirements.
 
                        Minimum  Minimum Side
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Front    Setback (ft.)       Minimum Rear Maximum
Area (sq.   Width (ft.) Setback  Interior            Setback      Building
ft.)                    (ft.)    Lot      Corner Lot (ft.)        Height (ft.)

10,000      75          20       10       20         10           40
 
   (H)   M-1 - Industrial.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the Industrial District is to provide
locations for enterprises engaged in manufacturing, processing, creating,
repairing, renovating, painting, cleaning, and assembling of goods or
equipment. This district includes uses that may be offensive due to odors,
dust, fumes, traffic, or vibration. The operation may involve some outside
activity, such as outdoor storage. To the extent possible, this district will
be located away from incompatible uses and separated by features such as roads,
natural features, and the like. Where this is not possible, performance
standards will be used to ensure the absence of adverse impacts on adjoining
properties.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned B-2, M-1, or M-2;
         (b)   Centralized water and sewer exists at the site, or are to be
installed as part of the development process;
         (c)   Development will have access via an arterial street;
         (d)   Where roads, natural features, and the like provide a buffer
between the district and other incompatible land uses.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements.
 
                                 Minimum Side Setback
Minimum Lot             Minimum  (ft.)                 Minimum  Maximum
Area (sq.   Minimum Lot Front                          Rear     Building
ft.)        Width (ft.) Setback  Interior   Corner Lot Setback  Height (ft.)
                        (ft.)    Lot                   (ft.)

40,000      150         40       See §     20         30       ---
                                 156.403(C)
 
   (I)   M-2 - Limited Industrial.
      (1)   Intent. The purpose of the Limited Industrial District is to
provide suitable locations for enterprises engaged in limited manufacturing,
distribution, wholesaling, warehousing, and related commercial and service
activities. The operation will minimize outdoor storage or similar activity
that may have adverse impacts outside of the property. Performance standards
will be used to ensure the absence of adverse impacts on adjoining properties.
      (2)   Application criteria. These districts will usually be applied:
         (a)   Adjacent to areas zoned R-6, B-2, B-3, M-1, or M-2;
         (b)   Adequate water and sewer facilities exist either through
centralized provision or other means;
         (c)   Development will have access via an arterial street.
      (3)   General dimensional requirements.
 
                                 Minimum Side Setback
Minimum Lot             Minimum  (ft.)                 Minimum  Maximum
Area (sq.   Minimum Lot Front                          Rear     Building
ft.)        Width (ft.) Setback  Interior   Corner Lot Setback  Height (ft.)
                        (ft.)    Lot                   (ft.)

20,000      100         30       See §     20         20       ---
                                 156.403(C)
 
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.303 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Table 156.303 lists uses permitted within each district in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   A "P" indicates a use permitted by right;
      (2)   A "S" indicates a use permitted via a special use permit granted by
the Zoning Board of Adjustment;
      (3)   A blank cell indicates a use that is not allowed;
      (4)   A notation in the "Standards" column indicates the cross-reference
for additional standards a use must meet.
   (B)   Use interpretation. If an application is submitted for a use that is
not listed, a Use Interpretation committee shall be authorized to make a
similar use interpretation based on the intent of the district and the
similarity to other uses in the district. This committee will consist of the
Zoning Enforcement Officer and one member appointed from the Planning Board. If
an applicant is denied a favorable use interpretation, they may appeal the
decision to the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with this chapter.
TABLE OF PERMITTED USES 156.303
USE TYPE R20A R20 R8 R6 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 Standards
TABLE OF PERMITTED USES 156.303
USE TYPE           R20A R20 R8 R6  B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 Standards
RESIDENTIAL USES
Accessory dwelling S    S   S  S   P              §
units                                             156.502
Accessory                                         §
structures,        P    P   P  P                  156.502
customary
Boarding or                    S
rooming house
Condominium                    S   S
Congregate care                P
facility
Duplex             S           P
Family care home   P    P   P  P                  §
                                                  156.510
Home occupation,   P    P   P  P
customary
Manufactured home  P                              §
                                                  156.515
Manufactured home  S                              §
park                                              156.514
Mixed Use          S,          S,  P  S  S        §
Residential        DOT         DOT                156.517
Modular home       P    P   P  P
Multi-family or                S   S  S           §
apartments                                        156.520
Single-family,     P    P   P  P
detached
Townhouse          S    S      S   S
COMMERCIAL USES
ABC store                             P
Accessory uses and P    P          P  P  P  P  P  §
structures                                        156.502
Adult                                 P           §
establishment                                     156.503
Animal hospital
(without open                         P        P
kennels)
Appliance sales                       P        P
and service
Bank or financial                  P  P  P
service
Bar                                S  P
Bed and breakfast  P    S      S   S              §
                                                  156.505
Beauty or barber   P,          P,  P  P  P
shop               DOT         DOT
Bicycle sales and                  P  P  P     P
service
Boat sales and     S,                 P        P
service            DOT
Brewpub                            S  P           §
                                                  156.529
Building           S,
materials, supply  DOT                P     P  P
and sales
Bus station                           P        P
Bus stop           S,   S,     S,
                   DOT  DOT    DOT
Convenience store                  P  P  P     P
without fuel sales
Convenience store/                                §
service station                       P  S     P  156.525
with fuel sales
Dance studio                       P  P  P
Dry cleaning and                      P        P
laundry
Drive-thru window                     P
Electronic gaming                     S
operations
Farm equipment     S,                 P     P  P
sales and service  DOT
Feed and grain     S,                 P     P  P
stores             DOT
Florist            P,              P  P  P
                   DOT
Grocery store                      S  P  S
Greenhouse/nursery P,   S,            P        P
                   DOT  DOT
Health and fitness P,          P,  P  P  S
center             DOT         DOT
Heavy equipment                       P     P  P
sales and service
Hotel/motel                        S  P
Kennel             S,   S,            S        S  §
                   DOT  DOT                       156.513
Manufactured home                     P
sales
Massage therapists                 P  P  P
Medical or dental                     P  S
office
Medical or dental                     P     P  P
laboratory
Microbrewery                       S  P     P  P  §
                                                  156.529
Mini-storage unit                     P     S  P
Motor vehicle,                                    §
body and paint                        P     P  P  156.519
shop
Motor vehicle                         P
rental and leasing
Motor vehicle      S,                 P        P
sales and service  DOT
Motor vehicle/boat S,
repair (without    DOT                P     P  P
open storage)
Motor vehicle wash                    P
or detailing
Music and art      P,              P  P  S
studio             DOT
Nightclub                             P
Office supplies                    P  P
sales and service
Outdoor recreation S,
facility           DOT
Pawnshop                              P
Personal service   P,          P,  P  P  S
                   DOT         DOT
Produce stand and  P,
shop               DOT
Professional       P,          P,  P  P  S
office             DOT         DOT
Restaurant and     S,          S,  P  P  S
café              DOT         DOT
Restaurant w/                         P
drive-thru
Retail, General                    P  P
Retail, single and
multi-tenant
retail
establishments                        S  S        Development standards for specific uses §
with a gross floor                                156.526
area equal or
greater than
30,000 square feet
Storage services                   P  P        P  §
                                                  156.530
Tap or Tasting                     P  P     P  P  §
Room                                              156.529
Theater, Indoor                    P  P
PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL USES
Assembly hall/                        P
coliseum
Cemetery           P    P   P  P      P           §
                                                  156.506
Child day care/    S           P   P  S  P        §
nursery school                                    156.507
Church             P    P   P  P      P  P
Clubhouse or lodge S               P  P  P
College or         P    P   P  P   P  P  P  P  P
university
Community center   S           S   P  P  P
Fire or police     P    P   P  P   P  P  P  P  P
station
Funeral home                          P  P
Golf course        P    P             P
Golf driving range S                  P        P
Government offices                 P  P  P
Hospitals                          P  P  P
Library            P    P   P  P   P  P  P
Museum/art gallery                 P  P  P
Nursing home                   S      P  P
Park, athletic     P    P   P  P   P  P  P  P  P
Park, community    P    P   P  P   P  P  P  P  P
RV parks/          S                  S     S     §
campgrounds                                       156.524
Schools, primary   P    P   P  P   P  P  P
and secondary
Schools, business/
technical/         P           P   P  P  P     P
vocational
Telecommunications P    P   P  P   P  P  P  P  P  §
antenna                                           156.528
Telecommunications S    S   S  S      S  S  S  S  §
tower                                             156.528
Utilities, public  P    P   P  P   P  P  P  P  P  §
                                                  156.523
INDUSTRIAL USES
Asphalt and                                 S
concrete plant
Brewery                               P     P  P  §
                                                  156.529
Extraction of      S
earth products
Correctional
facility
Distillery                            P     P  P  §
                                                  156.529
Farm, bona-fide    P
Feed and grain                              P
mill
Fill site          S                        S
Food or beverage                      S     P  S
processing
Freight terminal                      P     P
Junkyard or                                 P     §
salvage yard                                      156.512
Motor vehicle                               P     §
graveyard                                         156.512
Petroleum
products, storage                           P
and distribution
Publishing and
printing                              P     P  P
establishment
Radio and/or                          P     P  P
television studio
Warehousing                           P     P  P
 
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05 passed 5-6-2024; Ord. 2025-01,
passed 4-7-2025)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 156.401 PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES.
   There shall be only one principal structure per zoning lot, except in cases
of an approved multi-family development or other group projects that are not
subject to this section.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.402 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   No building shall be erected on any lot which does not abut at least 25 feet
on a publicly dedicated or maintained street.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.403 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT AND SETBACK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height limitations.
      (1)   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church
spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy;
monuments, water towers, observations towers, transmission towers, chimneys,
smokestacks, conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, television towers, masts
aerials, and similar structures.
      (2)   Secondary height. As allowed in §
156.302 – Zoning Districts – Intent and Dimensional Requirements, maximum
building height may vary between the primary and secondary height limitations,
provided that:
         (a)   For each two feet the building exceeds the primary height
limitation, the front and each side setback shall be increased by one foot, or
fraction thereof.
         (b)   No building shall exceed the secondary height limitation
established in the zoning district.
   (B)   Front yard setbacks for dwellings. The front yard setback requirements
of this chapter for dwellings shall not apply to any lot where the average
setback of existing buildings located wholly or partially within 100 feet on
each side of the proposed dwelling within the same block and zoning district
and fronting on the same side of the street is less than the minimum required
front yard depth. In such case, the setback on such lots may be less than the
required setback, but not less than the average of the existing on the
aforementioned lots, or within ten feet of the street right-or-way line,
whichever is greater.
   (C)   When no side setback is required. In cases where no side yard is
required, if a side yard is provided it must be at least four feet in width to
allow for maintenance, cleaning, and the like.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.404 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   At any public right-of-way intersection, no obstruction shall exceed 28
inches in height above existing grade within the area as shown in the
illustration below. "A" is located at the intersection of the road edges or
curb.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-503.jpg]
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.405 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Required. Off-street automobile parking shall be provided on every lot
on which a use is established. If no parking space can be reasonably provided
on the same lot, such space shall be provided on a lot of which a substantial
portion is within 500 feet of such use. No certificate of occupancy will be
issued upon completion of any building or group of buildings unless all off-
street parking requirements are in place and ready for use.
   (B)   Central Business District parking. Uses in the B-1, Central Business
District, are exempt from parking requirements unless required by other
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Combined parking. The required parking space for any number of
separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to
one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that one-
half of the parking space required for churches, theaters, or assembly halls
whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use
which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
   (D)   Reduction in number of required spaces. As part of its review, the
Town Council may reduce the required number of parking spaces required by this
section by up to 10% upon finding that the reduced number of parking spaces
will be sufficient to satisfy the demand for parking expected for the use,
considering: the nature of the use, the number of trips generated by the use,
the times of day when the use generates the most trips, and the extent to which
other establishments are located on the same property and may reduce the number
of vehicle trips required between different establishments.
   (E)   Size and number. Each parking space shall be not less than nine feet
by 19 feet, in or exclusive of adequate access drives and maneuvering space.
Each space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley and
shall be equal in number to at least the minimum requirement for the uses set
out in
Table 156.405. Requirements based on the number of seats, students, etc., are
based on the design capacity of the building.
TABLE 156.405
Residential Uses                        Parking Requirements
Single family, duplex, condominiums,
manufactured                            2 spaces per dwelling unit
homes, and similar residential
Multi-family for elderly, handicapped   1 space per resident
(including group homes)
Rooming or boarding house               1 space plus one for each room to be
                                        rented
Institutional Uses                      Parking Requirements
Churches and similar places of worship; 1 space per 4 seats in principal
funeral homes                           auditorium
Clubs, lodges, fraternal organizations, 1 space per 400 sq. ft. of gross floor
civic organizations, etc.               area or 1 space per 2 seats of meeting
                                        space, whichever is greater
                                        2 spaces for each classroom and 1 space
Schools, elementary and intermediate    for each
                                        administrative office
Schools, senior high                    2 spaces per classroom plus 1 per 3
                                        students
                                        1 space per patient bed plus 1.25 per
Hospital                                full-time
                                        employee (total number, regardless of
                                        shifts)
Colleges                                1 space per classroom 1.5 spaces per 2
                                        students
Libraries, museums, and other like      1 space per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor
cultural                                area
establishments
                                        1 space per 8 to 10 licensed attendees
Day care centers                        plus 1 per
                                        employee
                                        1 space per 4 residents plus 1 per
Nursing/rest/convalescent homes         staff member on
                                        largest shift
Stadium, auditorium, theater,           1 space per 2 seats
convention center
Golf courses                            4 spaces per green plus 1 per employee
Community recreation centers            1 space per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                        area
   with swimming pool                1.25 spaces per lane
   with tennis or racquets courts    3 spaces per court
 
Commercial/Business/Office Uses Parking Requirements
Commercial/Business/Office Uses          Parking Requirements
Restaurants                              1 space per 3 seats
   with drive-thru                    3 stacking spaces for each window
Auto repair establishments               4 spaces per service bay or rack
Convenience mart                         1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                         area
Banks                                    1 space per 300 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                         area plus:
   drive-thru                         3 stacking spaces for each window
   automated teller machine           1 space per machine
Medical/dental/vet offices and/or        1 space per 300 sq. ft. of gross floor
clinics                                  area
Hotels/motels                            1 space per room plus 1 space per 3
                                         employees on largest shift plus:
   with conference/meeting facilities 1 space per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                         area
Commercial recreation, indoor, such as:
- dance instruction
- martial arts instruction               1 space per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor
- skating rink                           area
- billiard parlor
- bowling alley
- music instruction, etc.
Commercial recreation, outdoor, such as: 1.5 spaces for every tee, station, or
- driving range                          other method of designating the total
- miniature golf                         number of participants at the facility
- skeet range, etc.                      at one time
Retail establishments                    1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                         area
Offices (general, professional)          1 space per 300 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                         area
Home occupation                          1 space in addition to residential
                                         requirements
                                         1 space per 300 sq. ft. of enclosed
Auto/boat/truck sales and rental         gross floor area
                                         plus 1 space per 5,000 sq. ft. display
                                         area
                                         5 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of leasable
Shopping centers                         area (not including restaurants, which
                                         still must meet seating requirement)
Personal service establishments          1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
(barbers,                                area
tanning, etc.)
 
 
Industrial/Wholesale Uses    Parking Requirements
Manufacturing, heavy         0.75 space per employee on largest shift
                             plus 1 space per truck
Manufacturing, light         1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Wholesale establishments     1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Warehousing and distribution 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
establishments
Warehouses/storage           1 space per employee plus 1 space per truck
 
   (F)   In residential areas, the parking or storage of motor vehicles,
recreation vehicles, boats and/or trailers shall be prohibited in the area
between the street and the front yard, except that the parking of motor
vehicles, recreation vehicles, boats and/or trailers are permitted upon a
driveway or parking area constructed of concrete, asphalt, gravel or any other
material commonly used for parking of vehicles, but not including grass or
dirt.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05 passed 5-6-2024)
§ 156.406 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   (A)   Required. Every building used for business, trade, or industry
hereafter erected shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and
unloading of goods, and the like. Each space shall have access to an alley or
street.
   (B)   Size and number. Each off-street loading space shall have minimum
dimensions 14 feet in height above the alley or street grade and 25 feet in
depth from the alley or street line. The number of spaces required is as
follows:
      (1)   Retail: One space of 300 square feet for each 5,000 square feet of
floor area;
      (2)   Wholesale/industry: One space of 500 square feet for each 10,000
square feet of floor area.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.407 SIGNS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of
Wilkesboro Sign Regulations”.
   (B)   Applicability and purpose. This section apply to all signs erected in
the Town of Wilkesboro and extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ). The purpose of
this section is to ensure the installation of safe and effective signage that
promotes both business activity and the aesthetic character of the town, as
well as communicating essential information to the public. The following
statements elaborate on this purpose:
      (1)   To provide opportunities for neighborhoods and commercial endeavors
to be identified in an effective and equitable fashion.
      (2)   To promote public safety by reducing hazards associated with
distracting or excessive signage.
      (3)   To establish and promote enhanced community character through
signage that is reflective of the adopted goals of the town and its scale of
development.
      (4)   To promote the integration of signage with the architectural
characteristics and aesthetic quality of the town’s development.
      (5)   To provide for flexibility in amount, type and scale of signage
depending on the context of the development and the surrounding area.
      (6)   To facilitate efficient, thorough, consistent and effective
enforcement of this section.
   (C)   Definitions. Please see definitions in §
156.701.
   (D)   Applicability. Except as specifically exempted in this section, no
sign shall be erected, altered or displayed without a sign permit issued by the
Town of Wilkesboro confirming compliance with the provisions of this section.
Signs made nonconforming by this section shall be grandfathered until altered,
abandoned, relocated, or removed except for prohibited signs, which shall be
removed within ten days as required in division (E) of this section. Signs
located within an established historic district or on the site of a designated
historic landmark are subject to the standards and review requirements of the
Historic Preservation Commission as set forth in § 156.220.
   (E)   Prohibited signs. Signs prohibited by the enactment of this section
shall be removed within ten days from the date of notification by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer or duly authorized code enforcement agent of the town;
however, where deemed dangerous or prejudicial the Zoning Enforcement Officer
may act in accordance with §
156.203 of this chapter. The following signs are specifically prohibited:
      (1)   Snipe signs.
      (2)   Signs attached to light fixtures, curbs, sidewalks, gutters,
streets, utility poles, public buildings, fences, railings, public telephone
poles, or trees.
      (3)   Windblown signs not specifically permitted in this section such as
pennants, streamers, spinners, balloons, inflatable figures, and similar signs,
except as specifically permitted in division (H) of this section.
      (4)   Signs which prevent free ingress to or egress from any door,
window, or fire escape.
      (5)   Signs erected or displayed in such a manner as to obstruct free and
unobstructed vision at any street, intersection, or driveway.
      (6)   Any sign which interferes with vehicular or pedestrian traffic
because of its position, size, shape, movement, color, fashion, manner, or
intensity of illumination, including signs with the potential to be confused
with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device not found in compliance
with the provisions of division (G)(1)(i) of this section.
      (7)   Signs erected or displayed on or over public street rights-of-way,
other than those erected by governmental agencies or for which appropriate
encroachment agreements have been executed pursuant to this section. Signs
specifically protected by the provisions of G.S. § 136-32.2 are not prohibited,
provided the requirements of G.S. § 136-32.2(c) are met.
      (8)   Portable signs, except as specifically permitted herein.
      (9)   Signs that mechanically alter their height, location, or size;
signs that revolve; or signs that strobe and/or flash; or any other similarly
constructed signs.
      (10)   Signs attached to the roofs of buildings or are otherwise located
above the roofs of buildings or are part of roofing finish and/or materials.
      (11)   Off-premises billboard signs, including outdoor advertising signs,
except those placed by governmental agencies for public purposes. Existing off-
premises billboard signs that are nonconforming may be disassembled and
replaced with a newer structure upon approval of a permit issued by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. The new signage shall be designed to result in no
expansion of or increase in the nonconformity; shall allow replacement with a
digital sign; shall not exceed 48 feet in height above adjacent grade; shall be
designed to limit lighting to the sign face; and shall be designed to enhance
the architectural features of adjacent buildings. Color renderings or
photographic simulations shall be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
who shall have the authority to deny permits for signs that do not meet the
intent of this section.
      (12)   Signs attached to telecommunications towers with the exception of
a single sign for use by law enforcement and emergency management departments.
   (F)   Exempt signs. The following signs are exempt from the requirements of
this section; however, in some instances building permits may be required, such
as an electrical permit for wiring, and a zoning permit is a prerequisite to a
building permit.
      (1)   Warning and security signs, including signs placed by a public
utility for the safety, welfare, or convenience of the public, including, but
not limited to signs identifying fire department connections or high voltage,
public telephone, or underground cables and/or gas pipelines. Signs posted on
telecommunications towers providing emergency notice information for law
enforcement and emergency management departments.
      (2)   Government signs and signs for non-profit organizations sponsored
by governments including insignia; statutorily required legal notices; and
informational, directional, way-finding, and traffic safety signs. This
exemption shall not include permanent and temporary signs covered in division
(H) of this section, but may include signs or flags erected on public property
or private property immediately proximate to public property to commemorate
public holidays recognized by resolution of the Town Council.
      (3)   Warning and security signs, including signs placed by private
property owners restricting activity such as "No Dumping", “No Hunting”, “No
Parking”, and "No Trespassing" signs containing less than six square feet in
copy area per sign face.
      (4)   Signs placed inside ball fields and outdoor amphitheaters that face
toward the interior of the field or amphitheater and are primarily visible for
viewing by persons attending events and/or performances.
      (5)   Accent lighting, as defined herein, provided that not more than two
architectural elements are accented per occupancy (e.g., two windows or a
window and a roofline, etc.).
      (6)   Signs associated with events of short duration for a nonprofit or
charitable organization posted for 14 days or less, provided that not more than
a total of 24 square feet of signage is posted per property per street frontage
and they are removed within two days.
      (7)   Incidental signs affixed to windows containing no more than two
square feet in copy area provided that not more than a total of eight square
feet of incidental signage is displayed per occupancy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-408.png]
 
   Example of Incidental Signs
      (8)   Machine signs containing no more than eight square feet in copy
area, except drive-through menu and/or kiosk machine signs may contain up to 12
square feet in copy area provided the portion of the signs devoted to a logo or
business name contains no more than six square feet of the total sign copy
area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-410.png]
 
   Example of Machine Signs
      (9)   Menus and kiosks displayed outdoors at restaurants provided they
contain no more than six square feet in copy area.
      (10)   Signs attached to collection bins, provided they contain no more
than six square feet in copy area.
      (11)   Any sign, public notice or warning required by a valid and
applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation, approved development plan,
or ordinance, including traffic control signs on private property.
      (12)   Address signs no greater than four square feet in copy area unless
specifically approved or directed by the Wilkesboro Fire Marshal.
      (13)   Retail store window displays of merchandise.
      (14)   Signs attached to licensed roadworthy vehicles, provided the
vehicles are not parked unattended and in such a manner as to create the effect
of additional signage, whether on-premises or off-premises (see division (E) of
this section).
      (15)   Signs attached to umbrellas provided no more than 50% of the total
surface area of the umbrella is devoted to signage.
      (16)   One Temporary sign per property street frontage containing no more
than four square feet in copy area in the R-20A, R-20, R-8, and R-6 districts;
no more than 16 square feet in copy area in the B-1 and B-3 districts; and, no
more than 32 square feet in the B-2, M-1, and M-2 Districts. Temporary signs
are limited to duration of not more than six consecutive months in any one
calendar year. See division (H) of this section for temporary signs requiring a
permit.
      (17)   Flags of the United States, the State of North Carolina, Wilkes
County or the Town of Wilkesboro.
         (a)   Any flagpole exceeding 50 feet in height requires an engineering
certificate confirming the ability of the flagpole to withstand wind force and
a fall area that will prevent damage to adjoining properties and/or public
right-of-way.
         (b)   No more than three flags shall be displayed on a lot of less
than one acre in size and not more than five flags shall be displayed on lots
of one acre or more in size.
         (c)   Flagpoles may be roof or wall-mounted provided size, height,
setback, and engineering requirements are met.
         (d)   Flags must be maintained in good condition. Faded, soiled,
tattered or torn flags should be promptly replaced.
         (e)   If the North Carolina, Wilkes County and Town of Wilkesboro
flags are present on the same pole as the United States flag, then the flags
must be proportionate in size to the flagpole and to each other.
         (f)   The flagpole, or position on flagpole, upon which the United
States flag is flown must be higher than others in the grouping.
         (g)   If more than one flag is flown from the same flagpole, the
United States flag must always be at the top, followed by the North Carolina
flag.
      (18)   Holiday, sports, and good-will decorations with non-promotional
message if lights are not illuminated and decorations are not displayed for
longer than a total of 60 days per calendar year on nonresidential property.
      (19)   Signs for “temporary businesses” such as, but not limited to,
produce stands, street vendors, and vendors at special events that shall
operate for a specified time, not to exceed seven consecutive days. If the
business is a recurring operation, such as produce stands that operate on
weekends or on select days during the week, then said “temporary business”
shall comply with the regulations set forth in this section; the exception
being that the Zoning Enforcement Officer may permit “temporary businesses” to
use banners and temporary signage that comply with the standards and intent of
this section to be used as signage.
      (20)   Fence wraps displaying signage when affixed to perimeter fencing
at a construction site until the certificate of occupancy is issued for the
final portion of any construction site or 24 months from the time the fence
wrap was installed provided it contains only advertising sponsored by parties
directly involved in the construction project.
   (G)   Requirements for permanent signs requiring an approval of a zoning
permit.
      (1)   Permanent sign requirements. The following tables and text provide
the design and dimensional requirements for permanent signs that require a
permit. Requirements include copy area, number, type of illumination, and
letter height for both attached and freestanding signs. Setback and height
requirements are established for all freestanding signs and detailed design
requirements are provided for monument and pole signs.
         (a)   Only one general attached sign (blade, V-type, or flat) is
allowed per street or parking frontage per occupancy.
         (b)   Only one monument or pole freestanding sign is allowed per
street frontage.
         (c)   Height of freestanding signs shall be measured from the
elevation of the ground at the point of contact with the sign provided that the
grade of the site is not artificially altered to increase the allowable height
of the sign. For sloping sites, the applicable point of contact shall be the
point having the highest elevation.
         (d)   One sign per approved Home Occupation is allowed within the R-
20A, R-20, R-8, and R-6 districts, not to exceed four square feet in area.
         (e)   The following permanent special purpose signs are allowed in
addition to general attached and freestanding signs under the limitations
provided in the following tables and elsewhere in this section.
            1.   Window.
            2.   Directional.
            3.   Directory.
            4.   Community identification.
         (f)   Clocks and thermometers (including digital displays of time and
temperature information) are allowed as either attached or freestanding
components of signs provided they are:
            1.   Incorporated into the general or attached signage for a non-
residential property;
            2.   No more than two per property; and
            3.   Not exceeding 16 square feet in area. The square footage
allowance constitutes an area bonus in addition to the maximum allowable area
for the applicable sign type to which clocks and/or thermometers are attached.
         (g)   Mechanical changeable signs: All mechanical changeable signs
must be static for a minimum of five minutes and the transition must not exceed
30 seconds.
         (h)   Electronic message center or display: Images and/or messages
must be static a minimum of eight seconds and the transition must occur as
instantaneously as technology allows. This is not considered animation and/or a
flashing sign. The following standards & specifications shall apply:
            1.   Brightness: The sign must not exceed a maximum illumination of
5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours and a maximum of
750 nits (candelas per square meter) between dusk and dawn, nor shall the sign
have varying light intensity during the display of any single message.
            2.   Every sign must be equipped with a dimming mechanism that
adjusts display brightness to accommodate varying ambient light conditions.
This function can be performed manually or automatically with the use of a
light sensing device.
         (i)   The minimum identification requirement is that a sign clearly
showing the name of a named subdivision be posted at the primary vehicular
entrance to the subdivision.
         (j)   Signs extending over pedestrian and vehicular travel areas shall
maintain a minimum clear distance between the finished grade surface material
and any portion of the sign and its associated support structure of seven
vertical feet on public and/or private sidewalks, and 14 vertical feet over
paved vehicular parking and/or maneuvering areas. Signs shall not extend over
public streets, except as stipulated in division (E)(7) of this section.
   Table 156.407(G) - Permanent Sign Standards and Criteria
          Sign Copy
Sign Type Area       Sign         Minimum Letter Maximum Number Other
          Allowance  Illumination Size                          Requirements
          (sq. ft.)
                                                                                                                              Sign         Minimum    Maximum
Sign Type                                             Sign Copy Area Allowance (sq. ft.)                                      Illumination Letter     Number     Other Requirements
                                                                                                                                           Size
Permanent Attached Signs - General
Blade* (or  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
projecting) cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ B-1:
            IMAGES/0-0-0-412.png]                     24 sq. ft.                                                                                                 Only one sign
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                                                  (blade, V-type or flat sign) allowed
V-type*     cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/                                                                                                           per occupancy per street or parking
            IMAGES/0-0-0-416.png]                                                                                                                              frontage
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                             Internally- illuminated
                                                      R-6, R-8, R-20, R-20A: 24 sq. ft.                                                                       signs – sign face can be illuminated
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                   One per    No attached signage above second story
                                                                                                                                                   street or  except in monolithic multistory
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                               Ambient                parking    buildings fronting major
Flat* (or   cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/                                                                        External     6"         frontage   thoroughfares.
wall)       IMAGES/0-0-0-414.png]                                                                                            Internal                per         
                                                                                                                                                     occupancy  May encroach into adjoining street
                                                      B-2, B-3,                                                                                                  right-of-way pursuant to an
                                                      M-1, M-2:                                                                                                  encroachment agreement. See divisions
                                                      1 ½ sq. ft. of sign area per linear foot of building frontage up to 96                                    (E)(7) and (G)(1)(J) of this section
                                                      sq. ft. in area


Permanent Attached Signs - Special Purpose
                                                                                                                                                      One per
                                                                                                                                                      each 100
                                                                                                                                                      square
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                                        feet of    A maximum allowance of three signs per
Window      cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 16                                                                      Ambient      Not        display or street or parking frontage per
            IMAGES/0-0-0-428.png]                                                                                                          applicable doorway    occupancy
                                                                                                                                                      window
                                                                                                                                                      area or
                                                                                                                                                      fraction
                                                                                                                                                      thereof
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                Ambient                 Not
Directional cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 6                                                                       External     4"         applicable  
            IMAGES/0-0-0-424.png]                                                                                             Internal
                                                                                                                                                      One per
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                                        street or
Outdoor     cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 12                                                                      Ambient      Not        parking     
Directory   IMAGES/0-0-0-426.png]                                                                                             External     applicable frontage
                                                                                                                                                      per
                                                                                                                                                      building
                                                                                                                                                      One per
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                Ambient                 street or  Not more than two awning signs per
Awning*     cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 8                                                                       Backlit      4"         parking    occupancy per street or parking
            IMAGES/0-0-0-420.png]                                                                                                                     frontage   frontage.
                                                                                                                                                      per awning
            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                Ambient                 One per
Canopy      cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 24                                                                      Internal     6"         side of     
            IMAGES/0-0-0-422.png]                                                                                                                     canopy
 
*May encroach into adjoining street right-of-way in the Central Business (B-1)
and Limited Business (B-3) Districts pursuant to an encroachment agreement
subject to the provisions of divisions (E)(7) and (G)(1)(j) of this section.
                                                         Min.
          Sign Copy Max. Sign Sign         Min.   Max.   Setback  Other
Sign Type Area      Height    Illumination Letter Number from     Requirements
          (sq. ft.) (ft.)                  Size          Property
                                                         Line(s)
                                                                  Max.                                 Min.
                                                      Sign Copy   Sign   Sign         Min.   Max.      Setback  Other
Sign Type                                             Area        Height Illumination Letter Number    from     Requirements
                                                      (sq. ft.)                       Size             Property
                                                                  (ft.)                                Line(s)
Permanent Freestanding Signs – General and Special Purpose
Unless approved through a master sign plan process (see division (J) of this section), all freestanding signs (including
billboards), on-premise and off-premise, must maintain a separation of 100 feet between signs, unless separated by a public
right-of-way in which instance a minimum separation of at least 50 feet is required.
                                                                                                                Monument
                                                                                             One per            signs shall
Non-        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                           Ambient             street             comply with
residential cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 48          8      External            frontage  5 ft.    the design
monument    IMAGES/0-0-0-440.png]                                        Internal            having             requirements
                                                                                             access to          of division
                                                                                             the site           (G)(3) of
                                                                                                               this section
                                                      B-2, B-3    B-2,                 
                                                      M-1, M-2:   B-3                  
                                                      1See        M-1,                                         Pole signs
                                                      calculation M-2:                     One per            shall comply
                                                      below       30 ft.                   street             with the
Non-        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        R-6, R-8,   R-6,                     frontage           design
residential cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ R-20, R-    R-8,   Ambient            providing 4 ft.    requirements
pole        IMAGES/0-0-0-438.png]                     20A:        R-20,  External           access to          of division
                                                      24 sq. ft.  R-20A: Internal           the site           (G)(4) of
                                                                  8 ft.                                        this section
                                                      B-1:        B-1:                 
                                                      24 sq. ft.  10 ft.              6"

                                                                                             One per            Shall
                                                                                             each               comply with
Residential [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                               gateway            design
Monument    cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 32          8      Ambient             or        0 ft.2   requirements
            IMAGES/0-0-0-436.png]                                                            primary            for
                                                                                             entrance           monument
                                                                                                                signs
                                                                                             One per
Non-        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                           Ambient             street             Site with
residential cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 24          6      External     4"     frontage  25 ft.   multiple
Directory   IMAGES/0-0-0-434.png]                                        Internal            having             buildings
                                                                                             access to          only
                                                                                             the site.
                                                                                                                Not more
                                                                                             Two per            than 25% of
Non-        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                           Ambient             each               sign face
residential cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/ 3           2.5    External     4"     driveway  0 ft.2   shall
Directional IMAGES/0-0-0-432.png]                                        Internal            access to          contain a
                                                                                             the site.          logo w/no
                                                                                                                commercial
                                                                                                                text
1 Sign Copy Area Calculation: One and one-half square feet of sign area per linear foot of building frontage up to 125 sq.
ft. in area.
2 May encroach into adjoining street right-of-way in the Central Business (B-1) and Limited Business (B-3) Districts
pursuant to an encroachment agreement subject to the provisions of divisions (E)(7) and (G)(1)(J) of this section.
 
      (2)   Single and Multi-tenant Retail Buildings Greater than 30,000 square
feet. Retail buildings with more than 30,000 square feet of floor area must
also comply with the provisions of §
156.526(L).
      (3)   Monument sign design requirements. Monument signs are intended to
serve a wider range of aesthetic and architectural purposes than pole signs.
Consequently, the following design requirements are established for monument
signs.
         (a)   General design requirements and sign copy area measurement for
monument signs. As in traditional building design, monument signs shall be
designed to include a base, middle, and cap. The following illustration shows a
monument sign having these architectural characteristics, as well as how sign
copy area is to be measured on a monument sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-442.png]
 
   Monument Sign Design Elements
         (b)   Sign structure materials. In general, monument sign structures
should be constructed of materials that are like or complementary to the
principal building(s) on the premises where they are located. Only the
following materials shall be used in monument sign structure construction,
singly or in combination.
            1.   Brick (painted or unfinished).
            2.   Wood.
            3.   Concrete or stucco.
            4.   Natural stone or manufactured stone having a natural
appearance.
            5.   Metal.
            6.   Glass.
         (c)   Sign copy materials. Sign copy materials for monument signs
shall include the sign structure materials listed above. For internally
illuminated monument sign copy, acrylic may be utilized, provided not more than
50% of the sign face is illuminated.
      (4)   Pole sign design requirements. The following design requirements
are established for pole signs:
         (a)   General design requirements. Pole signs in Wilkesboro have
traditionally been supported by two posts or suspended from a single post as
shown in the following non-local sample illustrations. Pole signs shall use one
of these two forms of design.
   Examples of Allowable Types of Pole Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-446.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-444.png]
 
         (b)   Materials. In general, pole signs should use materials that
complement the principal building(s) on the premises where they are located.
The following materials are acceptable for use in pole signs, singly or in
combination:
            1.   Wood.
            2.   Metal.
            3.   Brick (painted or unfinished).
            4.   Concrete or stucco.
            5.   Natural stone or manufactured stone having a natural
appearance.
 
TABLE 156.407(H)
Temporary Allowable
Sign Type Zoning    Requirements
          Districts
Sandwich            One sign per occupancy having direct access onto any public or private sidewalk
board     B-1, B-2, where sign is placed. “Direct access” shall mean an occupancy having a public
signs     B-3, R-6  entrance immediately from the sidewalk where the sign is placed. See additional
                    sandwich board sign requirements in division (H)(2) of this section.
                    Up to 60 square feet of banner materials per occupancy. Banners shall remain
Banners   B-2, B-3, tethered and/or anchored to resist movement. Display time limit: 30 days, four
          M-1, M-2  times per calendar year with a 60- day separation between permits and/or
                    installations.
 
   (H)   Temporary signs requiring a permit. 
Table 156.407(H) provides the design, dimensional, and time of display
requirements for Temporary Signs; refer to divisions (E) for Prohibited Signs
and (F) for Exempt Signs. Additionally: Nonconforming temporary signs shall not
be grandfathered (see division (M) of this section).
      (1)   Requirements for temporary signs that require a permit. The
temporary signs listed in
Table 156.407(H) require a permit and shall comply with the indicated zoning
location and other requirements. All such signs, except for searchlights, shall
be illuminated solely by ambient light sources.
      (2)   Additional requirements for sandwich board signs. Sandwich board
signs offer businesses in pedestrian-oriented zoning districts an effective and
creative way to market products or services. However, unless carefully
regulated, sandwich board signs can create hazards for pedestrians and a
cluttered and unattractive appearance. The following design standards are
established to permit sandwich board signs to be utilized in a fashion which
meets community safety and design expectations, as well as the need for
businesses to market their products and services.
         (a)   Sandwich board signs shall not exceed four feet in height and 30
inches in width.
         (b)   Sandwich board signs shall be located only on sidewalks that
serve the establishment with which they are associated.
         (c)   Five feet of sidewalk clearance shall be provided along at least
one side of the sign to allow for unobstructed pedestrian access in accordance
with ADA regulations.
         (d)   Sandwich board signs are intended to inform and orient
pedestrians to business locations and available products and services.
Consequently, such signs shall not be placed more than 20 feet from the primary
public entrance to the occupancy with which they are associated and shall be
oriented to communicate information primarily to pedestrian traffic.
         (e)   Sandwich board signs shall be moved to an indoor location for
storage during times when the associated businesses are not open for customers.
         (f)   Standard design for sandwich board signs. Sandwich board signs
shall be located in frames constructed of anodized aluminum, wrought-iron, or
wood, as illustrated in the following photographs. Plastic, PVC, or other
similar materials shall not be used as the frame. The display area within the
frame shall be constructed of durable metal or wood if containing permanent
messages; such permanent messages shall be applied to the display area with
paint, metal or durable vinyl or shall consist of carved wood or cut metal
lettering or images. Sandwich board signs containing changeable message display
areas may be constructed of chalk board style materials, durable plastic (such
as a “dry erase” board), or similar materials.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-450.png]
 
   Example of Standard Sandwich Board Sign Frame
         (g)   Alternative design for sandwich board signs. As an alternative
to the standard design described above, the Planning, Zoning & Subdivision
Administrator may permit alternative sandwich board sign designs which exhibit
a distinctive and creative flair which the owner would otherwise be unable to
replicate if the standard frame design was used.
   (I)   Signs located in local historic districts or on historic landmarks.
Regardless of the other dimensional provisions of the sign regulations, signs
that are located in local historic districts or designated historic landmarks
shall be governed by the applicable design guidelines and review processes
established for the local historic district and historic landmarks as specified
in §
156.604.
   (J)   Master sign plan. Regardless of the other provisions of the sign
regulations, the Wilkesboro Planning Board may, at its sole discretion, approve
a master sign plan for specified areas of town or for certain development
projects listed in this division. The approved master sign plan may include
signs of different sizes, types, locations, placement and height from those
otherwise enumerated in these regulations.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose behind this division is to permit creativity
in sign design and placement to address site issues and constraints associated
with topography, pedestrian-orientation, way-finding/directional/directory, and
other conditions unique to the subject development or area of town.
      (2)   Application. Master sign plans may be submitted for the following
types of developments:
         (a)   Special uses requested in accordance with §
156.214.
         (b)   Commercial, institutional, industrial, or mixed-use
developments.
         (c)   Areas of town that are identified as special planning areas
within the Town’s Comprehensive Plan, and/or governed by an overlay district.
      (3)   Submittal process. Master sign plan applications may be submitted
for consideration at the time of original submittal of the proposed development
or separately from the original development proposal. The following information
or material shall be required for a master signage plan application.
         (a)   Owner and contact name, address, telephone number and signature
(s), as applicable.
         (b)   A master sign plan proposal illustrating the proposed signs,
their proposed location, and their proposed purpose, along with a statement as
to why the existing sign regulations cannot or should not be followed in the
subject case.
         (c)   An analysis showing how the proposed signage plan differs from
what could be provided under the existing sign regulations.
         (d)   Other similar information determined by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer to be necessary for understanding the purpose and intent of the
proposed master sign plan application.
      (4)   Review procedure. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall schedule the
master sign plan for Planning Board consideration in accordance with the notice
and public hearing procedures set forth in §
156.207 for zoning map amendments. In reviewing the proposed master sign plan,
the Planning Board shall take the following matters into consideration:
         (a)   The extent to which the proposed master sign plan deviates from
the sign allowances otherwise applicable in this section.
         (b)   The rationale provided by the applicant for the deviations.
         (c)   The extent to which the master sign plan promotes town goals
associated with community character, way-finding, pedestrian-orientation, and
business identification.
         (d)   1.   The degree to which the master sign plan creatively and
effectively addresses the issues and constraints unique to the site with regard
to signage.
            2.   The Planning Board shall deny or approve the proposed master
sign plan in part or in total and shall further recommend conditions regarding
approval where deemed warranted.
            3.   The Planning Board may deny or approve the proposed master
sign plan in part or in total and may establish conditions regarding approval.
In the event that the master sign plan is denied, the applicant must wait at
least 30 days before reapplying for a new master sign plan.
   (K)   Suggested design guidelines. In addition to the mandatory standards
provided in divisions (G) and (H) of this section, the following design
guidelines for signs are provided in order to promote more attractive and
functional design and placement of signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. Placement of freestanding signs should take
into account existing trees and other site landscaping so as to maintain sign
visibility. Landscaping around the base of freestanding signs is strongly
encouraged to improve the overall appearance and visibility of these sign types
as evidenced in the following example.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-462.png]
   Landscaping Around the Base of a Monument Sign
      (2)   Display windows are intended to offer opportunities to display
merchandise or services available on the premises. Careful placement of signs
in display windows will not obscure the visibility of merchandise or services.
Additionally, display windows shall not be “papered-over,” especially in
pedestrian areas.
      (3)   General design guidelines. The following general guidelines are
provided to guide overall sign design in the town:
         (a)   Use high quality, durable materials.
         (b)   Minimize the need for sign lighting by placing signs where
ambient light sources illuminate the sign. Where separate lighting is
necessary, external illumination sources are preferred over internal
illumination. All electrical conduit and junction boxes should be concealed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-460.png]
   Externally Illuminated Sign
         (c)   Backlit, individual letter signs (i.e., halo lighting) are
encouraged where illumination is needed as illustrated below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-458.png]
   Backlit Individual Letters
         (d)   Avoid elaborate or confusing styles of text as illustrated in
the following example.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-456.png]
   Overly-Complicated Style of Text
         (e)   Attempt to use symbols rather than text; for example, this
Norwegian pharmacy sign incorporates a symbol as well as text.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-454.png]
   Use of Symbols
         (f)   Use sign styles and designs that complement the architecture of
the site where the signs are located. Wilkesboro is a historic town so using
“period” signage is strongly encouraged.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-452.png]
   An Example of a “Period” Pole Sign in a New York City Suburb
   (L)   Permitting.
      (1)   Applications for sign permits and the associated fee schedule may
be obtained from the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Completed applications,
including payment of fees, shall be reviewed for compliance with the
requirements of these regulations.
      (2)   Signs requiring sign permits under the provisions of the sign
regulations may also require additional permits, including building permits and
electrical permits. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain
all applicable permits.
   (M)   Nonconforming signs. A permanent sign which does not comply with one
or more of the requirements of the sign regulations shall be grandfathered
(deemed a vested right) until such sign is removed, physically altered beyond
maintenance (as defined), relocated, damaged or destroyed, after which it shall
be brought into compliance with all requirements of this section. Nonconforming
temporary signs shall not be grandfathered and shall be brought into compliance
with all requirements of this section within 30 days from the date of
notification by the Zoning Enforcement Officer or duly authorized code
enforcement agent of the town.
   (N)   Discontinued and abandoned signs. Signs identifying a discontinued
occupancy or use shall be considered abandoned signs and shall be removed by
the owner of the property on which they are located. Failure to remove a
discontinued or abandoned sign shall be considered a violation of the Zoning
Ordinance. In addition, correction of a discontinued or abandoned sign
violation may include removal of a discontinued or abandoned sign or signs by
the town at the owner’s expense after proper notice of the violation and
failure to act by the owner within the timeframe established in the notice of
violation.
   (O)   Maintenance. All signs, including exempt signs, shall be maintained in
a satisfactory state of repair. This shall include, without limitation,
correction of peeling or faded paint, repair or replacement of damaged panels,
trimming of vegetation that obscures the sign(s), replacement of defective
lighting of illuminated signs, secure attachment to the building for attached
signs, and stable vertical alignment of freestanding signs.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-08, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 156.408 ADDRESSING - RESERVED.
§ 156.409 ACCESS - RESERVED.
§ 156.410 EXTERIOR LIGHTING - RESERVED.
§ 156.411 BUFFERING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Where a non-residential lot abuts any residential district, there
shall be a side or rear yard clearance of at least ten feet on the side and/or
rear yard abutting the residential district.
   (B)   Upon any side or rear lot located in a non-residential zoning district
that abuts a residential zoning district there shall be a densely planted
buffer strip at least six feet in height along the rear and/or side lot
abutting the residential property. No such buffer shall extend nearer to a
street right-of-way line than the established building line of the adjoining
residential lot.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.412 LANDSCAPING - RESERVED.
§ 156.413 UTILITIES - RESERVED.
§ 156.414 FENCES.
   The purpose of this section is to establish enforceable regulations and
standards for fences. This section provides specific standards for general
design, security, height and safety.
Table 156.414 – Fence Design Standards
Zoning Districts R20A R20 R8 R6 HD B1 B2 B3 M1 M2
Table 156.414 – Fence Design Standards
Zoning Districts                                                       R20A R20 R8 R6 HD  B1 B2 B3 M1 M2
GENERAL
Fences shall be maintained in good working order and structurally      X    X   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X
sound
Fences may contain advertising unless expressly prohibited in §       -    -   -  -  COA X  X  X  X  X
156.407
Fences shall adhere to sight distance requirements as set forth in §  X    X   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X
156.404
SECURITY
Fences may be affixed with razor wire or high security fencing         X    -   -  -  -   -  X  X  X  X
Fences may be affixed with electricity                                 X    -   -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -
HEIGHT
Front: Fences shall not exceed 4 feet                                  -    -   -  -  COA X  -  -  -  -
Front: Fences shall not exceed 5 feet                                  X    X   X  X  -   -  -  -  -  -
Front: Fences shall not exceed 8 feet                                  -    -   -  -  -   -  X  X  X  X
Sides: Fences shall not exceed 6 feet                                  -    -   -  -  COA X  -  -  -  -
Sides: Fences shall not exceed 8 feet                                  X    X   X  X  -   -  X  X  X  X
Rear: Fences shall not exceed 6 feet                                   -    -   -  -  COA X  -  -  -  -
Rear: Fences shall not exceed 8 feet                                   X    X   X  X  -   -  X  X  X  X
 
   (A)   Table interpretation. “X” denotes a standard that is allowed or
required. “-” denotes a standard that is not allowed or required. “COA”
designates that a Certificate of Appropriateness is required due to location
within the Wilkesboro Historic District.
   (B)   Finished surface. Fences and walls shall be constructed such that the
“finished” part of the fence or wall is located to the exterior of the
property. Exposed framing of fences shall be located to the interior yard.
   (C)   Setbacks. Fences may be installed on adjoining property lines through
shared ownership and maintenance responsibility. If a fence is setback, the
fence must be at least four feet from the property line to allow for
maintenance of the fence and landscaping.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.415 STORMWATER PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect, maintain, and
enhance the public health, safety, environment, and general welfare by
establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects
of increased post-development stormwater runoff and non-point and point source
pollution associated with new development and redevelopment as well as illicit
discharges into municipal stormwater systems. It has been determined that
proper management of construction-related and post-development stormwater
runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure,
safeguard public health, safety, and general welfare, and protect water and
ecological resources.
   (B)   Applicability and jurisdiction.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply within the town limits
and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (2)   The following development activities are exempt from the provisions
of this section:
         (a)   Construction of a single-family or two-family residence.
         (b)   Redevelopment, or change in use of a structure, that does not
involve more than one-half acre of land disturbance.
         (c)   Redevelopment, or change in use of a structure, that does not
involve construction of more than one-half acre of additional impervious
surface.
         (d)   Agriculture and forestry practices.
   (C)   Relationship to other laws, regulations, and private agreements. This
section is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this section are in
addition to any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law.
Where any provision of this section imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards
for human or environmental health, safety, and welfare shall control.
   (D)   Effective date and transitional provisions.
      (1)   This section shall take effect on October 2, 2023.
      (2)   All development and redevelopment projects for which all necessary
permits were issued prior to the effective date of this section and which
remain valid, unexpired, unrevoked, and not otherwise terminated at the time of
development or redevelopment shall be exempt from complying with all provisions
of this section dealing with the control and management of post-construction
runoff but shall be required to comply with all other applicable provisions
(including but not limited to illicit discharge provisions).
   (E)   Drainage plan required. Any development or redevelopment subject to
the provisions of this section shall submit a drainage plan for review by the
town in conjunction with an application for a zoning permit. The town shall
review the drainage plan for compliance with the provisions of this section.
The drainage plan shall be prepared and bear the seal of a licensed
professional engineer and include the following:
      (1)   Topographic map of the total drainage area, including the project
site. The topographic map shall have a scale not smaller than 1 inch = 50 feet
and include the following:
         (a)   Contours at two-foot intervals.
         (b)   Property lines.
         (c)   Project construction elements (structures, parking lots,
driveways, and other impervious surfaces).
         (d)   Existing perennial and intermittent streams, wetlands, and
springs.
         (e)   Existing man-made stormwater facilities.
      (2)   Engineering drawings depicting the design and details of proposed
piping, drainage structures, stormwater control measures, and channels
connecting to a network of man-made or natural drainage features.
      (3)   Specifications of piping, drainage structures, permanent erosion
control measures, and stormwater control measures.
      (4)   Computations to support the design and specifications.
   (F)   General provisions.
      (1)   To the extent practical, lot lines in subdivisions shall follow
natural and existing man-made drainage features.
      (2)   Stormwater shall not be channeled into a sanitary sewer system.
   (G)   Development standards.
      (1)   Stormwater runoff from the development shall be transported from
the development by vegetated conveyances to the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   All built-upon areas shall be at least 30 feet landward of all
perennial and intermittent surface waters.
      (3)   Using ten-year, 24-hour storm data, the post-development runoff
rate shall not exceed the pre-development runoff rate. Runoff rates must be
based on the same calculation method.
      (4)   Stormwater management systems shall have a minimum design capacity
of the ten-year discharge. The design capacity for cross-drainage facilities in
public streets shall be a 25-year discharge.
      (5)   Stormwater management facilities shall be designed in accordance
with 15A NCAC 2H.1050.
      (6)   Stormwater management facilities shall be permanent, protected with
easements or covenants that run with the land, and accessible for inspection.
      (7)   The minimum internal pipe diameter shall be 15 inches for open-
ended culverts, closed systems, and driveway culverts, and the minimum internal
pipe diameter for portions of closed systems outside the public right-of-way
shall be 12 inches.
   (H)   Maintenance. The owner (or other responsible party) of each stormwater
management facility installed pursuant to this section shall maintain and
operate it to preserve and continue its function in controlling stormwater
quality and quantity at the degree or amount of function for which the facility
was designed. All projects subject to this section shall record an approved
maintenance agreement and inspection schedule at the Wilkes County Register of
Deeds, which shall run with the land.
   (I)   Performance security for installation and maintenance. The town may,
at its discretion, require the submittal of a performance security or bond with
surety, cash escrow, letter of credit, or other acceptable legal arrangement
prior to issuance of a permit to ensure that the stormwater management
facilities are installed as designed. Performance securities will be based on
construction estimates and shall not exceed 125% of the estimated cost.
   (J)   Remedies and penalties.
      (1)   This section shall be enforced by the Town’s Zoning Administrator
or designee, which may include any contracted agencies.
      (2)   The remedies and penalties provided for violations of this section,
whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other
remedy provided by law and may be exercised in any order.
      (3)   The town may revoke, issue a stop work order, or refuse to issue
any development permit, including a certificate of occupancy, for the building
served by the stormwater systems in question until the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise remedied the violations described therein. Any stop
work order may be modified to enable the necessary remedial measures to remedy
such violations.
      (4)   If the violation is deemed dangerous or prejudicial to public
health or public safety, the town may cause the violation to be corrected and
the costs to be assessed as a lien against the property.
      (5)   Regardless of the effective date and transitional provisions, the
remedies and penalties provided for violations of this section may be enforced
where stormwater runoff and erosion incidents are determined to encroach on
real property or public right-of-way located off-premises.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 156.501 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Dwellings in B-1 Central Business.
      (1)   Ground floor. A dwelling will only be permitted within the B-
1 district if it is in a structure in which the ground floor is used
exclusively as a non-residential use.
      (2)   Parking. A dwelling unit will only be permitted within the B-
1 district if it can provide private, off-street parking in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   Dwellings in R-8 Single Family Residential, R-6 General Residential,
R-20 Suburban Residential and R-20A Suburban Residential/Agricultural.
      (1)   Quantity. There shall be no more than two dwelling units in a
structure previously built and/or used as a single family dwelling, and no more
than two dwelling units on a lot.
      (2)   Design. The ADU shall be designed so that the appearance of the
structure maintains that of a single family dwelling.
      (3)   Parking. There shall be provided at least two off-street parking
spaces for the principal dwelling. One parking space shall be provided on-site
for each one bedroom ADU and two parking spaces shall be provided on site for
each two bedroom ADU.
      (4)   Size restrictions. The living area for an ADU shall not exceed 50%
of the principal dwelling floor area.
      (5)   Deed restrictions. Before obtaining a zoning compliance permit for
an accessory dwelling unit the property owner shall file with the County
Register of Deeds a declaration of restrictions containing a reference to the
deed under which the property was acquired by the present owner and stating
that:
         (a)   The accessory unit shall not be sold separately; and
         (b)   The unit is restricted to the approved size as stated in size
restrictions above.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05 passed 5-6-2024)
§ 156.502 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory structures in any residential district shall only be
established a minimum of three feet behind the front facade (to the side or
rear) of the principal structure with which they are associated.
   (B)   Accessory structures in any residential or business zoning district
shall not include open storage.
   (C)   Setback requirements for accessory structures are as follows:
      (1)   In the R-20 and R-20A zoning districts: a minimum 15 feet from any
property line and 50 feet from any side street right-of-way on corner lots.
      (2)   In the R-8 zoning district: a minimum ten feet from any property
line and 40 feet from any side street right-of-way on corner lots.
      (3)   In the R-6 zoning district: Minimum ten feet from any property line
and 30 feet from any side street right-of-way on corner lots.
      (4)   In the B-1 zoning district: no required setback for property lines
adjoining other B-1 zoned parcels. Ten feet setbacks for property lines
adjoining other zoning districts.
      (5)   In all other non-residential zoning districts: minimum ten feet
from any property line.
   (D)   Residential accessory structures shall not exceed the total square
footage of the footprint of the principal dwelling. No more than two
residential accessory structures shall be permitted per lot. This standard
shall not apply to residential accessory structures on lots exceeding two acres
in size.
   (E)   Accessory structures shall not cover more than 30% of the side and
rear yard in residential districts.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 156.503 ADULT USES.
   (A)   No adult establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of a church,
public or private school, library, child day care center, residential district,
residential development, public park, or an establishment with an on-premise
North Carolina ABC license.
   (B)   All windows, doors, openings, etc. shall be covered, screened, or
located so that views into the interior are not possible from any public area.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.504 ASPHALT AND CONCRETE PLANTS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Any operations shall be located on a minimum area of ten acres and
all plant operations shall be located at least 100 feet from any property line.
      (2)   For asphalt plant operations, the boundary of the property shall be
a minimum of 1,500 feet from any residential zoning district, hospital, nursing
or convalescent home, retirement home, life care community, school, children’s
nursery, child daycare, or church.
      (3)   For concrete plant operations, the boundary of the property shall
be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any residential zoning district, hospital,
nursing or convalescent home, retirement home, life care community, school,
children’s nursery, child daycare, or church.
   (B)   Site and operational plan. A site and operational plan shall be
submitted showing truck routes to and from the site. Such routes shall be
designed to minimize impacts on residential areas, schools, or other uses
negatively affected by truck traffic. The plan shall address all standards set
forth in this division. Site and operational plans shall be legally binding and
complied with for the duration of the operation.
   (C)   Fencing and screening. Fencing, a minimum of six feet in height, shall
be provided around the perimeter of the operation. A vegetative screen, a
minimum of six feet in height, can be used as an alternative to fencing. A
vegetative screen, either planted or natural wooded area, shall be provided
along any street right-of-way and any property line within 500 feet of property
zoned for residential purposes.
   (D)   Noise. Owner and/or operator must actively pursue means to avoid
egregious and unnecessary noise disturbances, this may include but is not
limited to sudden noise restrictions and time restrictions for certain
equipment and activity. The business shall not utilize mechanical, electrical,
or other equipment which produces noise and/or vibration nuisances outside the
industrially zoned parcel(s).
   (E)   Unpaved areas. All unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a
manner that prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
   (F)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent light
from directly hitting adjacent properties or any public right-of-way.
   (G)   Drainage. The site shall be drained to prevent the accumulation of
standing water, and channelization of the drainage shall be designed and
controlled so as not to cause erosion or silting of neighboring properties,
public drainage ways, and or watercourses.
   (H)   Access. Access roads leading to any part of the operation shall be
constructed with a gravel, asphalt, and/or concrete surface and maintained in a
dust-free manner. Access roads shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any
adjacent property, unless separated by a public right-of-way.
   (I)   Rehabilitation. Within six months after the cessation of production,
all equipment and stockpiles incidental to such operation shall be dismantled
and removed by and at the expense of the owner.
   (J)   North Carolina Building and Fire Code. Buildings must meet all
requirements for Hazardous Occupancy under the NC Building Code. The County
Fire Marshall and local fire department shall be kept notified of the types of
materials used, manufactured, or stored on site. Additional Building and Fire
codes may apply on a case by case basis.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-08, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 156.505 BED AND BREAKFASTS - RESERVED.
§ 156.506 CEMETERIES - RESERVED.
§ 156.507 CHILD DAY CARE/NURSERY SCHOOL FACILITIES.
   (A)   At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area shall be provided for
each child.
   (B)   A completely fenced play area is required. No play area shall be
allowed in the street setback.
   (C)   The applicant must obtain any and all required state licenses and
comply with all state licensing requirements.
   (D)   Outdoor play times shall not be scheduled before 9:00 a.m. or after 8:
00 p.m. Care should be taken to minimize noise impacts on adjacent residences.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.508 ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   All applicable permits must be issued to the applicant prior to the
issuance of the special use permit and the opening of business. No electronic
gaming operation or equipment associated with these establishments shall be
located in a business or other use that does not have a Certificate of
Occupancy (CO) specifically as an “Electronic Gaming Operation.” Such games are
not permitted as an accessory use to any other business or use.
   (B)   The maximum number of electronic gaming terminals shall be determined
by the following parking limitations:
      (1)   Two spaces per machine, or one space per every 100 square feet of
total floor area, whichever is greater; and
      (2)   One additional space per each employee.
   (C)   If the electronic gaming operation provides more than three machines,
during hours of operations, then at least one qualified security provider must
be present on the premises.
   (D)   The establishment must not be located within one half mile of any
church/house of worship or any public or private elementary, middle, or high
school, community college, library, public park or playground, daycare center,
library, or residential zoning district.
   (E)   The establishment must not be located within one half mile from any
location that offers or is engaged in any type of electronic gaming or any
adult or sexually oriented business.
   (F)   An application must contain a current certificate and straight-line
measurement drawing prepared by within 60 days prior to application by a
registered land surveyor depicting the distances between the land-uses
contained within subsections (D) and (E) of this section. Measurement of
distance separation shall be made as a straight-line measurement from the
closest point of the structures being used for said land-use and the electronic
gaming operation. For the purposes of this section, a use shall be considered
existing or established if it is in existence at the time an application is
submitted.
   (G)   The hours of operation of the establishment shall be from 8:00 a.m.
until 10:00 p.m. daily.
   (H)   No alcoholic beverages shall be served or consumed on the premises of
electronic gaming operations.
   (I)   All signage and promotional material visible from the exterior of the
building must comply with the signage standards described in §156.407 of this
Chapter.
   (J)   All electronic gaming operations shall be operated only on the ground
floor of a building, and glass windows must allow a clear view inside from the
street. Tinted windows, curtains, or any other material that would conceal or
obstruct view of the operations from the outside is prohibited.
   (K)   At all times while open for business and while patrons are on the
premises, all spaces within the electronic gaming establishment shall remain
open for direct, unobstructed access by government officials including but not
limited to building inspectors, zoning officials, police officers, fire
department personnel and emergency response personnel. Entrance doors shall
remain unlocked at all times while patrons are on the premises.
   (L)   The applicant acknowledges and agrees that in the event a special use
permit is granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, the applicant will remain
vicariously liable, both civilly and criminally,
for the actions and activities of applicant's agents, servants or employees in
the performance of their duties.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 156.509 EXTRACTION OF EARTH PRODUCTS - RESERVED.
§ 156.510 FAMILY CARE HOME.
   No new family care home is permitted within a one-half mile radius of an
existing family care home.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.511 HELICOPTER LANDING PADS.
   (A)   Allowed in B-2, General Business, M-1, M-2, Manufacturing.
      HELICOPTER LANDING PAD. The designated takeoff and landing area from
which helicopter departures and approaches are intended to originate or
terminate.
      HELIPORT. A helicopter terminal facility for general public
transportation with support facilities. The word heliport shall mean an area on
the ground used by helicopters, which may include, in addition to the landing
pad, passenger and cargo facilities, maintenance, overhaul, fueling, service
and storage facilities, tie-down areas, hangars, parking, and other necessary
buildings and open spaces. The term HELIPORT includes the terms heliports and
public-use heliport used in Federal Aviation Administration publications.
      HELISTOP. A limited use helicopter terminal facility, restricted by the
owner to the support of a related business, institution, or other operation.
The word HELISTOP shall mean an area, either on the ground or on a building,
and shall include the landing pad used by helicopters for the purpose of
picking up or discharging passengers or cargo, routine maintenance facilities,
parking area, fuel pumping facilities (only if such activity is approved by the
appropriate agencies), and storage or hangar facilities, but no other accessory
facilities. The term HELISTOP includes the terms private-use heliport and
personal-use heliport contained in Federal Aviation Administration
publications, except for the limitations on the facility as noted.
   (B)   Supplementary requirements for helistops or heliports.
      (1)   Standards and requirements. All heliports and helistops will meet
the standards and requirements imposed by the Federal Aviation Administration
and all other federal, state, or local agencies having jurisdiction.
      (2)   Site size. The minimum site size of helicopter terminal facilities
shall be:
         (a)   Helistops. One hundred feet in width by 100 feet in length for a
rectangular area, or 120 feet in diameter for a circular area.
         (b)   Heliports. Two hundred feet in width by 400 feet in length for a
rectangular area, or 325 feet in diameter for a circular area.
      (3)   Hours of operation. Non-emergency use of heliports and helistops
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. is prohibited. Emergencies
excepted are for public safety or medical purposes.
      (4)   Setbacks. Landing pads for on-grade helistops and heliports shall
be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any property line and 400 feet from any
building used for residential purposes, public or private schools, hospitals,
or public parks.
      (5)   Location. Heliports shall be located a minimum 1,000 feet from
other heliports or on-ground helistops and 50 feet from the easements for high
voltage transmission lines.
      (6)   Access. An on-ground helistop or heliport shall be surrounded by a
fence or other barrier which prohibits access except at a controlled access
point. Adequate access for fire and other emergency vehicles shall be provided
to on-ground sites.
      (7)   Design standards. Federal Aviation Administration standards for
design of helicopter landing pads, taxiways, parking positions, and pavement
grades shall be met. The helistop or heliport landing area shall be constructed
of a material free of dust and loose particles which may be blown about by the
down blast of the helicopter rotor. Adequate drainage shall be provided for the
site and approved by the local jurisdiction.
      (8)   Lighting. Lighting for helistops or heliports is to be provided
according to Federal Aviation Administration requirements and is to be oriented
as much as possible away from adjacent uses.
      (9)   Approach surfaces. Approach surfaces and transitional surfaces for
landings and take-offs must be sufficiently clear of obstructions to meet
Federal Aviation Administration slope standards. If necessary, a curved
approach may be used. The landing area shall be aligned to give maximum into-
the-wind operation.
      (10)   Location on structures. Heliports may not be located on
structures. Helistops located on structures require certification of the
structure's integrity by an engineer.
      (11)   Setback adjustments. All setback and distance requirements for
elevated helistops may be reduced one foot for each one foot of the elevation
above ground level.
      (12)   Operation at an airport. A heliport or helistop may be operated at
an airport facility with the approval of the Federal Aviation Administration
and airport administration.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.512 JUNKYARDS, MOTOR VEHICLE GRAVEYARDS, AND SALVAGE YARDS.
   (A)   Junkyards, motor vehicle graveyards, and salvage yards must adhere to
the following development standards and/or conditions.
   (B)   Nonconforming motor vehicle storage yards, junkyards, and salvage
operations. Nonconforming vehicle graveyards, junkyards, and salvage yards that
were legally established but are not currently allowed within the zoning
district in which they are located and/or do not meet the development standards
of this section may not be continued for more than one year after the date of
this amendment (April 19, 2010) unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   A principal structure shall be located on parcel. The storage area
shall be located in the rear yard of a principal structure and more than 50
feet from the street right-of-way;
      (2)   The storage area shall be screened by an opaque wall or fence that
is a minimum of six feet tall and is constructed of wood, vinyl, masonry, or
similar material. Chain link fence with vinyl slats may not be used to satisfy
this requirement. No items may be stacked taller than the wall or fence. If
deemed necessary by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, a site plan shall be
submitted to determine the required fencing height and design, which is to be
based on the visibility lines and terrain of the parcel in question and/or
surroundings areas;
      (3)   Burning shall not be permitted;
      (4)   Disposal of garbage unrelated to motor vehicles shall be in an
approved container and regularly maintained. Open dumping of garbage shall be
prohibited;
      (5)   Disposal of toxic and/or hazardous matter is prohibited anywhere
without a state permit;
      (6)   Stock piling of tires and batteries is prohibited; and
      (7)   Storage of items shall be so arranged as to permit easy access for
fire-fighting purposes, which will be reviewed and approved by the Wilkesboro
Fire Inspector.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.513 KENNELS.
   (A)   Accessory residential use. A kennel located in the R20A or R20
districts shall be an accessory use to a permitted residential use, as listed
in §
156.303.
   (B)   Minimum parcel size. The parcel on which a kennel is to be located
shall be a minimum of two acres.
   (C)   Operation requirements.
      (1)   All animals shall be provided pens that are fully enclosed. Other
than when using a run, animals must be kept confined. The facility, including
the pens, must be heated and air-conditioned. Only domesticated animals and
birds may be kept in the kennel. Reptiles, wild, and/or exotic animals are
prohibited.
      (2)   All parts of the kennel operation shall be maintained in a clean,
healthy, sanitary, and unoffensive condition, and shall conform to all
applicable requirements of the town, county, and state. Kennels shall be
inspected by appropriate agencies annually.
   (D)   Outside animal runs. Any run located partially or wholly outdoors
shall be located at least 50 feet from any lot line and 750 feet from any
existing residential structure, not including the primary residence as required
in division (A) of this section. The use of outdoor runs or facilities is
restricted to the hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. No more than five
outside runs shall be permitted. A maximum of 12 animals shall be permitted in
outside runs at one time.
   (E)   Noise and aromas. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
kennel to demonstrate prior to permitting appropriate measures to assure that
animal noise, including barking, is abated. Aromas emanating from the kennel
may not permeate beyond the boundaries of the property, and it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the kennel to take appropriate measures to
assure that animal aromas are abated.
   (F)   Signage. In R20 and R20A districts, one sign is required at all
entrances to the parcel, not to exceed 12 square feet in area, including
emergency phone number. Kennels in B2 and M2 shall comply with the standards
set forth in §
156.407.
   (G)   Parking. Adequate parking shall be provided in compliance with §
156.405.
   (H)   Screening. All outside runs shall be screened from public rights-of-
way. Additionally, all outside runs shall be screened from adjoining
properties. Screening can be composed of landscaping, fencing, existing
vegetation, substantial geographic divides (e.g., perennial waterways, public
rights-of-way, extreme topography, etc.), or combination thereof. Existing
vegetation used for screening must be located on the parcel on which the kennel
is located.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.514 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Plan requirements. In addition to the other requirements of this
chapter, an applicant seeking a special use permit to establish a manufactured
home park must submit a detailed plan which specifies the following design
components in relation to requirements described in division (B) of this
section.
      (1)   Name of the manufactured home park (approval required by Planning &
Community Development Department) and complex identification signage.
      (2)   Location and dimensions of every manufactured home space, including
total number of spaces.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of every street (street names approval
required by the Planning & Community Development Department) as well as
accommodations for service and emergency vehicles.
      (4)   Location of required signage as described in division (B) of this
section.
      (5)   Location of designated mail space as described in division (B) of
this section.
   (B)   General requirements of manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Entrance sign. There shall be at least one entrance sign
identifying the park which complies with the requirements of §
156.407.
      (2)   Mail service. There shall be a designated space on the grounds for
mail service for the residents of the manufactured home park.
      (3)   Minimum size. A manufactured home park site shall be a minimum of
two acres and have a minimum of five spaces for initial development. Adding
spaces after initial approval shall require new special use permit approval.
      (4)   Lot size. Each manufactured home space shall be a minimum of 80
feet by 100 feet and there shall be no more than five manufactured home spaces
per acre of park area.
      (5)   Placement. All manufactured homes shall be placed parallel to the
public street. As determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, manufactured
home park layout shall be designed to 1) prevent public view into property; 2)
provide resident privacy; and 3) provide appurtenance screening.
      (6)   Appearance. Homes should meet the appearance criteria in §
156.515.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Spaces. All manufactured home spaces must be set back at least
20 feet from all public rights-of-way and adjoining property lines.
         (b)   Home setbacks. Setbacks for manufactured homes in relation to
individual space boundaries as shown on the detailed plan are as follows:
            1.   Front setback: 25 feet.
            2.   Side setbacks: 10 feet.
            3.   Rear setback: 20 feet.
      (8)   Accessory structures. Structures shall be located a minimum of 25
feet from any residential unit within the park and a minimum of 25 feet from
any property line.
   (C)   Streets and signage.
      (1)   Streets shall be graded and surfaced with pavement and be a minimum
width of 18 feet. If a street is proposed for dedication to the town, it must
meet North Carolina Department of Transportation specifications.
      (2)   Each manufactured home park shall have a complex identification
sign located at entrance.
      (3)   All streets in the manufactured home park intersecting another
street shall have a stop sign that conforms to the North Carolina Department of
Transportation specifications.
      (4)   Each street shall have a permanent street sign installed with an
approved designated E911 name.
      (5)   Permanent dead end streets shall have a cul-de-sac. Cul-de-sacs
shall be designed to accommodate emergency response and service vehicles.
   (D)   Access.
      (1)   All entrances/exits of the manufactured home shall have steps and/
or ADA compliant ramp.
      (2)   Each manufactured home space shall have direct vehicular access to
an internal private street, however; no manufactured home space shall have
direct vehicular access to a public or private street outside of the
development.
   (E)   Parking.
      (1)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided within each
manufactured home space and cannot be located between the front of the home and
the public street. Parking spaces must be at least four feet away from unit.
      (2)   On-street parking areas may be utilized if the street within the
manufactured home park is designed and constructed to accommodate on-street
parking.
      (3)   To meet the two parking space requirement, a combination of off-
street and on-street parking is allowed.
   (F)   Sanitation, water and sewer.
      (1)   Sanitation. Parks must provide sanitation service that consists of
either each home having its own container, or a dumpster provided for the
entire development. Dumpsters must be screened from public view and shall be
maintained to avoid accumulation of rubbish outside of the container.
      (2)   Water. An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water
shall be provided in each manufactured home park. Where an approved public
water supply is available, connection shall be made there and its supply used.
When a public water supply is not available, adequate water supply shall be
developed in accordance with the Wilkes County Health Department standards.
      (3)   Sewer. Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be
provided in all manufactured home parks. Collection systems and sewage
treatment plants shall be in compliance with the requirements of the North
Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources. Individual septic
tank systems can be considered, if soil, topography, and ground water
conditions are favorable, and approval is granted by the Wilkes County
Environmental Health Department.
   (G)   Landscaping/buffering. Certain land uses may create an adverse impact
when developed adjacent to other less intensive land uses. Buffers shall
provide screening between a proposed development and a dissimilar existing land
use or zoning designation to provide a transition between them. A buffer is a
strip of land together with some form of screening such as existing vegetation,
planted vegetation, a landscaped earthen berm, a fence, a wall, or a
combination of the above.
      (1)   Landscaped buffer must be a minimum width of 15 feet and no less
than six feet in height at maturity. Total number of plants required for every
100 linear feet shall equal or exceed 18.
      (2)   Grade changes in areas to be included in the landscaped buffers
shall not exceed 5% from the pre-development profile, except wherein an earthen
berm is incorporated as part of the landscaped area.
      (3)   All dumpsters, loading docks, or utility structures visible from a
public street or adjacent property line shall be screened unless already
screened by an intervening building or buffer. Landscaping shall not interfere
with the access and operation of any such structure or facility. All unenclosed
outdoor storage areas greater than 25 square feet shall also be screened from
adjacent properties and streets.
   (H)   Recreation area. Each manufactured home park shall have a minimum of
8% of the total area set aside and developed for recreation purposes. Land set
aside for recreation must be suitable for such purposes. Steep slopes and other
unsuitable area shall not be counted towards the 8% minimum. Recreation areas
shall be maintained by property owner in a safe and sanitary manner and
available to all residences of the park.
   (I)   Park register. The park operator must maintain a register containing a
record of all occupants. The register must contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and space number of each occupant; and
      (2)   The date the manufactured home entered the park.
   (J)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Grounds and buildings of the manufactured home park shall be kept
free of debris, trash, and litter to prevent the infestation of rodents, flies,
mosquitos, and other pests.
      (2)   Grounds within the manufactured home park shall have proper
drainage to prevent the accumulation of water.
      (3)   All maintenance is responsibility of property owner.
   (K)   Lighting. All streets in the manufactured home park shall be
adequately illuminated from sunset until sunrise as determined by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. The minimum size street light shall be a 175 watt mercury
vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen class), or its equivalent, spaced at intervals
not more than 400 feet.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.515 MANUFACTURED HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   Setup.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be set up in accordance with the standards
established by the North Carolina Department of Insurance;
      (2)   All transportation lights and towing apparatus shall be removed.
   (B)   Roof.
      (1)   A roof shall have a minimum vertical rise of two feet for each 12
feet of horizontal run;
      (2)   A roof shall be shingled or metal construction.
   (C)   Siding.
      (1)   Wood, hardwood, aluminum, or vinyl comparable in composition,
appearance, and durability to the exterior siding common in standard
residential construction;
      (2)   In no case shall aluminum or vinyl siding exceed the reflectivity
of glossy white paint.
   (D)   Skirting.
      (1)   Skirting shall be masonry or stucco and the reflectivity when
painted shall in no case exceed that of glossy white paint;
      (2)   Skirting shall be continuous under all sides of the home except for
required ventilation and access;
      (3)   Skirting shall be installed no later than 60 days after the set-up
of the home.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.516 MINI-STORAGE UNITS - RESERVED.
§ 156.517 MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   B-1 – Central Business.
      (1)   Dwelling unit. A dwelling will only be permitted within the B-
1 district if it is in a structure in which the primary store front is used
exclusively as a non-residential use.
      (2)   Parking. A dwelling unit will only be permitted within the B-
1 district if it can provide private, off-street parking in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   B-2 – General Business & B-3 – Limited Business.
      (1)   Dwelling unit. A dwelling unit will only be permitted within the B-
2 and B-3 districts if it is in a structure in which commercial uses are also
present. The structure cannot be used exclusively for residential uses. Street-
facing units at ground-level must be used for commercial purposes.
      (2)   Parking. A dwelling unit will only be permitted within the B-2 and
B-3 districts if it can provide private, off-street parking in accordance with
this chapter.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.518 MODULAR UNITS - RESERVED.
§ 156.519 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY SHOP - RESERVED.
§ 156.520 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Applicable standards described in this section apply to new construction,
whether such construction constitutes a new development or an expansion of an
existing development. Multi-family dwelling units in mixed-use buildings are
governed by §
156.517 Mixed Use Residential.
   (A)   Livability space ratio. A livability space ratio of 0.35 must be
established for multi-family developments. A maximum of one-third of the
livability space required for a development may be impervious surface. Fifty
percent of the required livability space shall be designated to a defined area
exclusively for ground floor units. This space must consist of a shared yard
with accompanying private outdoor space for each ground-level unit or
individual yards contiguous with the unit served. Either configuration must
provide direct access from all ground floor units. The remaining livability
space shall be designated for the development's use as a whole and shall be
located to provide direct auditory, visual, and physical access from the
dwelling units served.
   (B)   Recreation space.
      (1)   Recreation spaces shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary
manner. A minimum of 10% of the parcel’s livability space shall be provided as
recreation space for residents of the development. Each recreation space shall
have a minimum area of 2,500 square feet. Recreation space requirements can be
reduced at the discretion of the Zoning Board of Adjustment if any of the
following are applicable: 1) a portion of the recreation space is a suitably
improved roof area or enclosed floor area; 2) the anticipated needs of the
residents require smaller or unique facilities; or 3) dedication of a greenway
easement is provided by the developer when deemed reasonable.
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling projects shall include one playground
consisting of a minimum 2,500 square feet defined area for children aged two
through 12 for each 75 units. If the project is close to an existing recreation
facility or park, alternative compliance can be agreed to at the discretion of
the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Multi-family projects in the B1 – Central
Business District are exempt from the recreation space and playground
provision.
   (C)   Sidewalks and greenway connections. If an existing or planned greenway
or sidewalk is near the project site, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may
require connection to said right(s)-of-way via private trail, sidewalk, or
conveyance of a public easement.
   (D)   Garbage disposal, outdoor storage, and screening. All solid waste,
recycling, and outdoor storage shall be located along the side or the rear of
the principal structure and screened to minimize any negative impact on persons
occupying the development, neighboring properties, or public rights-of-way.
Screening shall be architecturally compatible with the main buildings on site.
Screening materials may include fences, walls, and landscaping and shall
provide an opaque area screening.
   (E)   Building separation and orientation. No building shall be closer than
20 feet from any other building. Separate buildings shall not be arranged in
straight rows.
   (F)   Building height. No building shall exceed the maximum building height
specified in the zoning district.
   (G)   Access and adjoining streets. All developments shall have direct
primary access to a publicly maintained street.
      (1)   Any development with more than 50 dwelling units shall provide a
certified traffic engineering report. The aforementioned report shall be
required as a condition of an approved special use permit.
         (a)   The report shall evaluate the capability of the adjoining street
system to carry the traffic generated by the development and necessary
improvements (i.e., widening, curb and gutter, acceleration/deceleration lanes,
etc.).
         (b)   Improvements to adjoining streets (i.e., widening, curb and
gutter, acceleration/deceleration lanes, etc.) shall be required if it is
determined that the impact of the development warrants such improvements.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the
developer to obtain the traffic report prior to approval of the special use
permit by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (H)   Parking. Surface parking shall be located away from each public street
to the extent possible and, if practical, to the rear and sides of the
principal building(s). In no case shall parking extend beyond the front
building setback line. Parking shall be provided at a rate of no less than one
space per unit, nor more than one space per bedroom, and a designated parking
area for visitors shall be included. At the discretion. of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, alternative compliance may be agreed to when supported by a parking
demand analysis or report completed by a competent agent.
   (I)   Design standards. Reserved.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 156.521 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. Planned unit developments, as defined in this division, are
recognized as being desirable in the town in order that the public health,
safety morals and general welfare be furthered in an era of increasing
urbanization and of growing demand for housing of all types and design; to
provide for necessary commercial and educational facilities conveniently
located to such housing and to other areas of the community which require such
facilities; to encourage innovations in residential and commercial development
so that the growing demands of the population may be met by great variety in
type, design and layout of the buildings and by the conservation and more
efficient use of open space, and so that greater opportunities for better
housing and recreation and shops, conveniently located to each other, may
extend to all citizens and residents of the town; to encourage a more efficient
use of land and of public services, or private services in lieu thereof, and to
reflect changes in the technology of land development so that resulting
economies may inure to the benefit of those who need home, to lessen the burden
of traffic on streets and highways; to encourage the building of new
developments incorporating the best features of modern design; to conserve the
value of land; and, in aid of these purposes, to provide a procedure which can
relate the type, design and layout of residential and commercial development to
the particular site and the particular demand for housing and other facilities,
including the foregoing, at the time of development in a manner consistent with
the preservation of the property values within established residential area,
and to ensure that the increased flexibility of substantive regulations over
land development authorized herein is subject to such administrative standards
and procedures as shall encourage the disposition of proposals for land
development without undue delay.
   (B)   Area requirements: uses and density regulations.
      (1)   Minimum area requirements.
         (a)   Planned unit developments comprising less than 30 acres shall
contain residential uses only.
         (b)   All other planned unit developments comprising 30 acres or more,
may contain all uses permitted by division (B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Regulations of uses.
         (a)   Permitted uses. Subject to division (B)(1) of this section, a
planned unit development may contain any uses permitted in the R-20 Suburban
Residential District, R-8 Single Family Residential District, R-6 General
Residential District, and B-2 General Business District.
         (b)   No more than 5% of the gross planned unit development acreage
shall be used for commercial purposes. Additional permitted uses in any
residential zone include: cluster homes, zero lot line houses, town houses and
condominiums.
      (3)   Density limitations and open space requirements. The residential
density in a planned unit development shall not exceed that defined in §
156.302.
   (C)   Open space, common open space.
      (1)   Open space. Planned unit developments shall provide open space as
follows:
         (a)   Not less than 20% of the gross acreage when the development is
100 acres or less, and
         (b)   Not less than 25% of the gross acreage when the development
exceeds 100 acres.
      (2)   Common open space; for the collective enjoyment of the residents of
the development, shall comprise at least 50% of the open space.
   (D)   Street design. All single family attached and detached dwelling units
on individually platted lots shall have access to a street constructed to State
DOT Standards in accordance with the Wilkesboro Subdivision Ordinance.
   (E)   Common parking.
      (1)   May be allowed in conjunction with multi-family structures.
      (2)   The land for such shall not be subdivided from the land, which
contains the multi-family, structures it serves.
      (3)   Lots for such shall be built to the construction standards for
public streets.
   (F)   Maximum building height. Maximum building height shall be controlled
by the zoning district regulations in which the development is occurring.
   (G)   Setbacks.
      (1)   All structures shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from the
project's perimeter boundaries.
      (2)   Single family (attached or detached) and two-three-and four-family
requirements.
         (a)   Twenty feet minimum front yard setback and 25 feet minimum
length of paved driveway.
         (b)   Twenty feet between exterior sides.
         (c)   Thirty feet between exterior side wall of one dwelling unit and
the rear of another.
         (d)   Fifty feet between the rear of one dwelling unit and the rear of
another.
         (e)   No building shall be closer than ten feet from any parking area.
         (f)   Fifty feet outside side yard at street intersections.
      (3)   Multi-family (five or more) requirements.
         (a)   Twenty feet front yard setback.
         (b)   Twenty feet between exterior sides.
         (c)   Thirty feet between an exterior side of one dwelling unit and
the rear of another.
         (d)   Fifty feet between the rear of one dwelling unit and the rear of
another.
         (e)   Fifty feet outside side yard at street intersections.
   (H)   Maximum frontage. A townhouse type structure, whether multi-family or
otherwise, and attached, shall not contain more than eight dwelling units
unless recommended by the Planning Board and approved by the Town Board.
   (I)   Buffer strips and landscape screening. Landscaping and buffer strip
requirements are established to improve the appearance of vehicular use are
established to improve the appearance of vehicular use areas, outdoor storage
yards, and utility areas; to required buffering between incompatible land uses;
to protect the character and value of surrounding areas; and to reduce noise
pollution, air pollution, heat and artificial light glare.
      (1)   Buffer strip required between residential districts and between
residential districts and general business districts. Where any residential
district shall abut property in a business district, the owner or developer of
the business property or his agent, shall cause to be planted on the common
boundary an evergreen buffer strip at least ten feet in width consisting of one
row of evergreen trees not more than 15 feet apart and one row of dense shrubs
at not more than five feet apart. The trees shall be at least five feet in
height and the shrubs two feet in height at the time of installation. Existing
vegetation may be substituted for this requirement with Planning Board approval
as per division (I)(3) of this section.
      (2)   Landscaping shall be required along any front or side property line
that abuts the right-of-way of a street, road or highway. Such landscaping
shall be provided as follows:
         (a)   A landscaping strip of six feet in depth shall be located
between the abutting right-of-way and any off-street parking, loading or other
vehicular use areas, except where driveway openings are to be provided.
         (b)   There shall be a landscaping strip planted between the right-of-
way and the off-street parking and the town engineer shall approve it.
      (3)   Existing vegetation. The developer should make every reasonable
effort to preserve existing vegetation. By preserving existing vegetation,
potential erosion and sedimentation are minimized and vegetated buffer zones
for the use of the residents are provided. Existing vegetation may be
substituted for the requirement of division (I)(1) of this section.
      (4)   Fences. If fencing is to be used in the project, a schematic
fencing plan shall be incorporated in the development plan and shall clearly
illustrate the types of fencing to be used.
   (J)   Off-street parking. Two spaces, exclusive of carport or garage, for
each dwelling unit are required.
   (K)   Lighting. The plan to be used for lighting shall be submitted as part
of the final plat for each phase of project, as warranted.
   (L)   Requirements for development. Master land use plan. All applications
for approval of a planned unit development shall be accompanied by a
preliminary plat and a master land use plan which shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   The number and types of residential dwelling units;
      (2)   Planned primary and secondary traffic circulation patterns
including an analysis of anticipated traffic;
      (3)   Planned parks, playgrounds, and open areas to be developed or
preserved.
      (4)   Planned means of providing for the organizational arrangements for
the ownership, maintenance and preservation of common open spaces;
      (5)   Relationship of the planned unit development to the surrounding
land use;
      (6)   Plans for water and wastewater systems to be constructed in
accordance with town standards;
      (7)   Plans for the access of firefighting and refuse disposal equipment;
to include the method of refuse disposal such as compactors, dumpsters, and the
like;
      (8)   Plans for all utilities (including cablevision) wherever reasonable
possible all planned unit developments shall provide for underground
installation of utilities in both public ways and private extension thereof, in
accordance with the specifications and policies of the respective utility
companies;
      (9)   Plans for an adequate storm drainage system to be constructed in
accordance with town standards;
      (10)   The delineation of areas to be constructed in phases of sections
and the sequential order that will be followed in development including a
written statement from the applicant indicating the date for beginning each
phase of construction and the estimated date of completion;
      (11)   Drafts of any covenants which create a homeowners association for
the maintenance of all privately owned common areas, including, but not limited
to streets, parking areas, easements, and the like; and
      (12)   Drafts of any proposed declarations to be recorded pursuant to the
North Carolina Unit Ownership Act (G.S. Ch. 47A).
   (M)   Detailed site plan and construction drawings. After approval of the
master land use plan, the developer shall submit a final plat which shall in
addition, contain the following:
      (1)   Detailed engineering and construction plans of all necessary on-
site and off-site improvements in accordance with town standards that may be
submitted in phases as approved by Town Council.
      (2)   Final copies of all necessary covenants and declarations.
      (3)   Detailed plans that specify the types of erosion and sedimentation
control practices that are to be employed during all phases of construction so
required by the Sedimentation and Pollution Control Act of 1973 (G.S. Ch. 113A,
Art. 4), as amended.
      (4)   In areas where the soil types and slope are such that the Planning
Board deems it advisable, a report sealed by a North Carolina Register
Professional Engineer practicing in the soils or geo-technical field describing
the suitability of on-site soils for the proposed development.
      (5)   The Planning Board may, when it deems advisable, require greater
detail on any of the items enumerated in division (M) of this section.
   (N)   Procedures.
      (1)   Review by the Planning Board.
         (a)   The master land use plan and the detailed engineering and
construction drawings shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Planning Board
and forwarded to the Town Council with any necessary recommendations.
         (b)   The Planning Board shall consult with the recreation commission,
town engineer, fire chief and other persons and boards to make a recommendation
to the Town Council.
         (c)   The Planning Board may engage a certified engineer and/or
planning consultant, with demonstrated experience in large scale residential or
planned unit developments, to conduct an independent review of the proposed
PUD, and report findings and recommendations to the Planning Board and Town
Council prior to the approval of the PUD master plan or any phases thereof.
         (d)   A notice of public hearing shall be given in the same manner as
for amendments to this chapter.
      (2)   Approval by the Town Council. No permit for construction of any on-
site or off-site improvements in a planned unit development shall be granted
prior to final approval of the planned unit development by the Town Council.
      (3)   Revisions of approved plans. No phases or section of an approved
planned unit development shall be revised, enlarged or amended without first
resubmitting that phase or section to the Planning Board and the Town Council
as provided for in division (N) of this section.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.522 PRECIOUS METALS DEALER - RESERVED.
§ 156.523 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   In residential zones, public works and public utility facilities such
as distribution lines, transformer stations, transmission lines and towers,
electric substations, water tanks, and telephone exchanges, should be essential
to the service of the immediate area and there should be no vehicles or
equipment stored or any offices located on the property. The entire lot shall
be landscaped properly and furnished with a densely planted buffer at least six
feet in height.
   (B)   Service and storage yards for public works or public utility
facilities are only permitted in an M-1 or M-2 district.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.524 RV PARK AND CAMPGROUND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section shall set forth the minimum
requirements for the application, development, operation and maintenance of
permanent RV parks and campgrounds in the Town of Wilkesboro Planning and
Zoning Jurisdiction. The provisions of this section shall not affect policies
or agreements in respect to town or county property. Campgrounds that are non-
profit and/or privately used are subject to the special use process described
in this section. However, the Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Zoning
Administrator will use discretion in these cases to determine which standards
and conditions are applicable.
   (B)   Review and approval procedures. Application for site plan approval for
the development of RV parks and campgrounds, if applicable, shall be made with
the Zoning Administrator. The information listed and required under division
(C) of this section shall be included with any application. The applicant is
bound by the design and specifications shown on the final approved drawings.
   (C)   Required site plan information.
      (1)   Twelve copies of drawings to a readable scale, showing the
following:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the subject tract or parcel;
         (b)   Topography;
         (c)   Number, location, design and layout of all campsites;
         (d)   Layout of interior roads and parking areas;
         (e)   Location and size of all structures to be included in the
campground;
         (f)   Type and placement of screening;
         (g)   Buffer zones;
         (h)   Landscaping;
         (i)   Placement of refuse containers and waste disposal sites; and
         (j)   Plan for park lighting.
      (2)   Three copies of the detailed specifications for the following:
         (a)   Water supply and system;
         (b)   Sewage disposal system;
         (c)   Drainage plan;
         (d)   Construction plans for interior roads, parking areas and
buildings; and
         (e)   Existing vegetation and vegetation proposed to be retained.
      (3)   Area map showing the subject property in relation to adjacent
parcels of land;
      (4)   Plat or title certificate obtained or updated within two weeks
prior to making application;
      (5)   Lease agreement, if land is to be leased for RV park development;
      (6)   List of the property owners of record, within 300 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the subject property;
      (7)   Traffic study by a certified engineer (may be required at the
option of the town);
      (8)   Areas within floodway, floodplain or shorelines must obtain
appropriate permits;
      (9)   Other information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   Application process. RV park and campground development applications
shall be processed in the same manner as special use permits. In addition to
those requirements specified for the processing of special use permits, the
following criteria shall be applied to the review of RV parks and campgrounds:
      (1)   General operation and maintenance requirements.
      (a)   The proposed development will not result in the obstruction of or
interference with existing traffic patterns in the area;
         (b)   The proposed development will not generate congested or undue RV
traffic through residential, urban residential, or town center zones;
         (c)   The proposed development shall cause minimum disturbance to the
natural environment;
         (d)   Development must retain site in as natural a state as is
feasible;
         (e)   An attendant must be on duty or on-call at all times during
operation, unless described and agreed to during special use permit hearing
with Zoning Board of Adjustment. Signage indicating contact information for
attendant must be displayed;
         (f)   Registration records must be kept on the occupancy of all RV
parks. As a minimum, the registration form must have space for name, date, and
permanent mailing address;
         (g)   Upon request, park records shall be made available to the town
and/or county government;
         (h)   An inspection and occupancy permit shall be required prior to
the opening of any RV park and/or campground;
         (i)   No camper, including gear and vehicles, shall stay a length of
time which exceeds 90 days sequentially. Additionally, No camper, including
gear and vehicles, shall stay a length of time which exceeds 180 days per
calendar year;
         (j)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter and debris at all times;
         (k)   Service buildings shall be maintained in a sanitary condition at
all times;
         (l)   Animals traveling with campers shall be kept on a leash or
tethered within their campsite at all times;
         (m)   The developer, to whom approval was initially granted, or
approved subsequent developer, or owner, shall be accountable to the town for
adherence to these regulations;
         (n)   Operator shall provide for continued maintenance of landscaping
and buildings.
      (2)   Park size and density restrictions.
         (a)   Minimum parcel size: A minimum parcel of two acres shall be
required for the development of RV parks and campgrounds.
         (b)   Campsite design standards:
            1.   In the location and spacing of campsites, there shall be a
minimum of 12 feet between RVs and/or structures.
            2.   All campsites shall be well drained; stormwater shall be
conveyed to approved detention facilities and/or areas.
            3.   Restroom facilities shall be located within 400 feet of any
campsite. Handicapped access to restroom facilities is required.
      (3)   Traffic circulation and street design.
         (a)   Interior roads shall have a minimum width of 20 feet. One-way
roads may be allowed with a minimum width of 12 feet.
         (b)   Interior roads connecting to public street rights-of-way shall
be paved in accordance with town standards within 50 feet of such rights-of-
way.
         (c)   For traffic safety, acceleration and deceleration lanes may be
required at points of ingress and egress.
      (4)   Parking.
         (a)   A minimum of one auto parking space shall be provided inside the
area of each campsite.
         (b)   One additional auto parking space shall be provided for each
five campsites, to be located elsewhere in the park.
         (c)   Additional parking spaces shall not be provided on interior
roads.
      (5)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory uses are allowed whose primary usage and enjoyment are
for park tenants.
         (b)   Accessory uses shall be placed no closer than 150 feet from any
exterior park boundary.
         (c)   A service building and park office shall be provided in all RV
parks and campgrounds.
      (6)   Restroom requirements.
TABLE 156.524 – RESTROOM REQUIREMENTS
Number of Campsites Toilets Urinals Lavatories Showers
                    M F     M       M F        M F
1-40                1 2     1       1 1        1 1
41-80               2 4     2       2 2        2 2
81-120              3 6     3       3 3        3 3
121-160             5 8     3       4 4        4 4
161-200             6 10    4       4 4        4 4
 
      (7)   Open space. For campgrounds over five acres, open space of 12% is
required. Campgrounds under five acres require 20% open space. Buffers are not
to be included as open space.
      (8)   Buffers, screening, and setbacks.
         (a)   Buffers, screening and setbacks.
            1.   Parks shall require a 50-foot buffer along any property
boundary that is adjacent to any public street right- of-way and a 30-foot
buffer along all other property boundaries.
         (b)   Screening and setbacks.
            1.   View screening shall be required along any property boundary
adjacent to a public street right-of-way. Such screening shall be set back a
minimum of 20 feet from such rights-of-way.
            2.   View screening shall be set back 20 feet from any street
right-of-way.
      (9)   Water supply and sewage disposal. Any RV park or campground having
town sewer or water lines available shall be required to hook up to town water
and sewer systems. In RV parks and campgrounds not having sewer or water lines
available, any alternative systems shall require approval of the Public Works
Director for the town and shall be sufficient in meeting requirements of the
state and county Departments of Environmental and Health Services.
      (10)   Refuse disposal.
         (a)   No campsite shall be located in excess of 200 feet from any
refuse container.
         (b)   Such containers shall be made of heavy and durable material with
lids.
         (c)   Refuse containers shall be stored on platforms which are
elevated at least six inches from the ground and are well drained.
         (d)   Such containers shall have a holding capacity of not less than
30 gallons.
         (e)   At least one two-yard standard dumpster with lid shall be
required to be located near a facility entrance for convenient pick-up. More
than one such dumpster may be required, depending on the number of sites to be
served and the number of weekly pick-ups.
      (11)   Miscellaneous provisions.
         (a)   Any expansion of an existing campground must meet the
requirements of this section.
         (b)   Campsites are to be well marked and numbered.
         (c)   For RV parks, a sanitary waste station shall be provided, unless
all campsites are connected to an approved sewer system.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05 passed 5-6-2024)
§ 156.525 SERVICE STATIONS WITH FUEL SALES.
   Gasoline pumps and other appliances shall be located at least 12 feet behind
the property line.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.526 SINGLE AND MULTI-TENANT RETAIL BUILDINGS GREATER THAN 30,000 SQUARE
FEET.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to encourage visual design
interest and a pedestrian site design for large-scale retail buildings. These
structures shall be designed to reduce the massive scale and uniform,
monolithic appearances. Large retail buildings have the potential to create
adverse traffic, environmental and aesthetic effects and further erode
Wilkesboro's small town character. Therefore, the Town of Wilkesboro wants
careful attention to the local community design issues to promote adaptable
large retail buildings that fit the small-town character of this community.
Building and site design shall also promote a safe and comfortable pedestrian
oriented site with a mixture of uses and sizes of the structures.
   (B)   Applicability. The following design standards shall apply to new
single and multi-tenant retail buildings with a gross floor area equal to or
greater than 30,000 square feet and existing vacant single and multi-tenant
retail buildings equal or greater to 30,000 square feet undergoing renovations
or expansions equal to or greater than 50% of their current assessed value as
listed by the Wilkes County Tax Assessor.
   (C)   General development standards. All design standards contained within
this section shall be applicable unless otherwise specified.
      (1)   Exterior materials. Predominant exterior building materials shall
include wood, brick, limestone, granite, other native stone, or tinted,
textured concrete masonry units, or stucco. Prefabricated metal buildings shall
have a veneer of wood, brick, limestone, granite, other native stone, or
tinted, textured concrete masonry units, or stucco on all sides visible to the
public.
      (2)   Landscaping. Please refer to § 96.14, Landscaping Requirements for
Commercial Development, contained in the Town of Wilkesboro Code of Ordinances
for specific requirements.
      (3)   Articulation. Facades greater than 100 feet in linear length shall
be articulated with recesses or projections, which total at least 25% of that
façade. Each recess or projection shall be a minimum of 2% of the length of
that façade. No uninterrupted length of any façade shall exceed 75 horizontal
feet.
      (4)   Entrances. Large retail establishments over 75,000 square feet
shall be required to have at least two customer entrances. The two entrances
shall be separated by at least one-third of the building.
   (D)   Building design. All new buildings shall incorporate at least five of
the following design features. Renovations and expansions to existing buildings
shall incorporate at least three of the following design features. The Zoning
Board of Adjustment may allow minor deviations to the full requirement of each
chosen item if the petitioner can adequately demonstrate that the overall
intent and spirit of this section continues to be adhered to in the overall
development design:
      (1)   Color. Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral or
earth tone colors. The use of high intensity colors, metallic colors, black or
fluorescent colors is prohibited. Building trim and accent areas may feature
brighter colors, including primary colors.
      (2)   Material and textures. Buildings shall have at least three of the
materials/textures set forth in division (C)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Pedestrian walkways. Covered pedestrian walkway (minimum of eight
feet depth across at least 35% of the façade).
      (4)   Window display. Clear glass window display areas that covers at
least 20% of one façade or 30% of two facades.
      (5)   Animating features. Ground floor facades shall have arcades,
display windows, entryways, awnings, and other such design features on at least
60% of that façade.
      (6)   Integral planters. Integral planters shall be constructed parallel
to the building. The intent is to incorporate such an area that shall be a
minimum of five feet wide and shall cover at least 35% of the façade.
      (7)   Parapets. Raised corniced parapets located over the main entrance
to the building.
      (8)   Outdoor patios. Outdoor patios, which incorporate gathering and
sitting opportunities adjacent to the main entrance or on the front façade
equivalent to 2% of the gross square footage of that building. Such areas shall
include a seating area with benches or tables and chairs.
   (E)   Roofs. The following standards are intended to foster a variation in
rooflines to soften and reduce the massive scale of large buildings. Roofs
shall have the following features:
      (1)   Parapets concealing flat roofs and roof top equipment such as HVAC
units from public view. The height of such parapet shall not exceed one-third
of the height of the support wall. Such parapets shall feature three
dimensional cornice treatments and shall not be of a constant height for a
distance of greater than 150 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-495.png]
 
      (2)   Three or more roof slope planes.
   (F)   Transit stops. Single and multi-tenant retail establishments over
80,000 square feet shall provide an off-street transit stop for customers and
employees if the development is located on an established or planned public
transit route. The location of the transit stop shall be shown on the site
plan. The transit stop may be a freestanding structure or an existing overhang/
awning incorporated in the design of the building.
   (G)   Parking lots and pedestrian circulation. The parking lot design and
pedestrian circulation routes shall provide a safe, convenient and efficient
access for vehicles and pedestrians. Pedestrian circulation via internal public
sidewalks shall be encouraged. The placement of structures shall enhance and
promote pedestrian circulation on the site. All pedestrian and circulation
requirements shall be noted on the site plan.
      (1)   circulation routes shall provide a safe, convenient and efficient
access for vehicles and pedestrians. Pedestrian circulation via internal public
sidewalks shall be encouraged.
      (2)   The placement of structures shall enhance and promote pedestrian
circulation on the site. All pedestrian and circulation requirements shall be
noted on the site plan.
         (a)   Artistic detailing, material changes and paving patterns are
encouraged in pedestrian walkways, plazas, and gathering areas.
         (b)   The number of required parking places may be reduced if the
establishment promotes shared parking and a more pedestrian friendly
environment for the development.
         (c)   At least five-foot-wide walkways shall connect focal points of
pedestrian activity, such as transit stops, street crossings or entry points,
and shall feature adjoining landscaped areas (four foot wide minimum landscape
depth) to provide a separate and pedestrian friendly access route for no less
than 50% of their overall length.
         (d)   All internal pedestrian walkways shall be physically separated
from the drive lanes. Additionally all sidewalks and crosswalks shall be
visually distinct from the driving surfaces.
         (e)   Sidewalks, at least eight feet in width, shall be provided along
any façade featuring a customer entrance, and along any façade abutting public
parking areas. At all times such sidewalks shall maintain at least a five foot
clear pedestrian passage. Additionally, such sidewalks shall connect all
customer entrances to other internal sidewalks. Sidewalks shall meet all ADA
requirements.
         (f)   Where feasible, pedestrian paths and vehicular linkages shall be
made with adjoining properties.
         (g)   Overnight parking of RVs, camper trailers and other vehicles
providing transient residency shall be at the discretion of the property owner
but shall be limited to no more than two days.
   (H)   Miscellaneous site plan requirements.
      (1)   Outdoor shopping cart storage areas shall be provided in the
parking lots and adjacent to the building if they are not available at the
entrance. Additionally, shopping cart storage location shall be clearly defined
on the site plan. Shopping cart locations next to the building shall be located
in an enclosed area.
      (2)   Loading docks, truck parking, outdoor storage, utility meters, HVAC
equipment, trash dumpsters, trash compaction, and other such service functions
shall be incorporated into the overall design of the structure and landscaped
so that the visual and acoustic impacts of these functions are fully contained
and out of the view from the general passersby. If screening material is needed
it shall be the same material as those used on the structure to avoid visual
detection of the service function on and off site.
      (3)   Only areas previously designated and approved for the parking or
storage of trucks, trailers, or containers as accessory outdoor storage shall
be permitted. These designated areas shall be screened from public view. Such
areas are prohibited on any portion of a walkway, drive aisle, parking or
landscaped area.
      (4)   Where applicable, private streets within an existing site shall be
required to be improved to town standards.
      (5)   Any infrastructure improvements needed for existing or proposed
structures shall be the responsibility of the developer/owner.
      (6)   Where applicable, any other site upgrades shall be the sole
responsibility of the developer.
   (I)   Outdoor sales. Permanent and seasonal outdoor sales areas shall be
incorporated into the design of the building and site. Additionally, only
previously designated and approved permanent or seasonal outdoor sales areas
shall be permitted.
      (1)   Non-enclosed areas for the sale and storage of seasonal inventories
shall be permanently defined and separated with walls and/or fences. Walls and
roofs shall conform to the standards defined in divisions (C) and (E) of this
section.
      (2)   If anti-theft devices for the area(s) are provided, they shall be
identified on the site plan.
      (3)   No outdoor display or sales area shall encroach on to any portion
of a walkway, drive aisle, parking or landscaped area.
   (J)   Traffic analysis and plan.
      (1)   NCDOT will review traffic impacts for all single and multi-tenant
retail establishments over 30,000 square feet. The developer shall comply will
all NCDOT requests.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment will review recommendations
submitted by NCDOT for internal and site specific conditions and shall have the
ability to require any recommendations as the Zoning Board of Adjustment deems
appropriate.
      (3)   Where applicable, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may require an
outside firm to prepare a traffic impact analysis study for the development
site. If required, the developer will accrue all costs associated with the
development and town review of the study.
   (K)   Lighting requirements.
      (1)   Lighting of buildings and landscaping. Lighting fixtures shall be
selected, located, aimed, and shielded so that direct illumination is focused
exclusively on the building facade, plantings, and away from adjoining
properties, public or private rights-of-way, and the night sky. All wall pack
fixtures shall be full cutoff fixtures.
      (2)   Lighting in parking lots and outdoor areas.
         (a)   All outdoor area and parking lot lighting fixtures shall be full
cutoff fixtures.
         (b)   The mounting height of all outdoor lighting shall not exceed 30
feet above finished grade.
         (c)   All pole mounted fixtures shall be located in a curbed island
which may or may not be a part of a landscaped island.
   (L)   Signs. Signs shall be appropriate to the design of the structure.
Signs shall be designed for both the pedestrian and the motorist. These
requirements shall be in addition to the sign regulations set forth in §
156.407.
      (1)   Monument signs shall be constructed with materials that are like or
complementary to the principal buildings on the premises where they are
located.
      (2)   Architectural gateway or entrance elements, which identify the
address of the site, do not incorporate any commercial advertising and are less
than five feet in overall height, shall not constitute a freestanding monument
sign.
      (3)   Traffic and parking signs shall comply with the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices. Sign housings and posts shall be designed to be a
visual and design amenity for the site. Creativity in design is encouraged.
      (4)   Signs shall comply with all requirements set forth in §
156.407.
   (M)   Vacant single and multi-tenant retail establishments over 30,000
square feet. Abandoned buildings and blighted sites cause negative visual and
fiscal concerns for the community. Therefore in order to minimize these
instances upon the community, the following shall apply to vacated buildings(s)
or developments reviewed under this section:
      (1)   Exterior surfaces. All exterior surfaces, including but not limited
to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches and trim shall be
maintained in good repair. Exterior wood surfaces, other than resistant
materials shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or other
protective coverage or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be
eliminated and surfaces repaired. All siding and masonry joints shall be
maintained weather resistant and watertight.
      (2)   Exterior walls. Exterior walls of buildings shall be maintained
free from holes, breaks, loose or rotting materials, and graffiti; and shall be
maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated as need to prevent
deterioration.
      (3)   Roofs. Roofs of buildings shall be maintained so that they are
structurally sound and in a safe condition and weather tight, and not have
defects, which might admit rain or cause dampness in the interior portions of a
building. All portions, additions or sections of a roof including, but not
limited to, the fascia, eave, soffit sheathing, rafter tail, barge rafter, vent
screening, gutter, downspout, roof jack, lead or metal flashing, shall be
complete with all trim strips, moldings, brackets, braces and supports attached
or fastened in accordance with common building practices.
      (4)   Windows. All glassed areas, including those in windows and doors
shall be fully supplied and maintained as per the approved plan(s), or covered
with smooth surface boards that are painted to coordinate with the building.
      (5)   Grounds.
         (a)   All landscaped areas as defined in the approved plan(s) shall be
maintained and kept free of trash, old building materials, junk, unlicensed or
inoperative vehicles, and other such material and equipment which, by its
appearance, location or use, makes it incompatible with the principle use or
other uses in the immediate neighborhood. The height of the grass and other
general ground cover shall be kept trimmed to a height of no more than eight
inches. Trees and shrubs shall be kept maintained and trimmed;
         (b)   All driveway, parking loading and outside storage areas shall be
maintained as per the approved plan(s); and
         (c)   All fences, walls, lighting, signs, storage structures, and
other visually physical improvements or appurtenances as per the approved plan
(s) shall be maintained in a safe, working order and in good appearance and
free of graffiti.
      (6)   Storage.
         (a)   No outside storage is permitted on a vacant site.
         (b)   No outdoor sales, such as new or used cars, or mobile carwashes,
shall be allowed on a vacant site unless approved in advance by the Zoning
Administrator and as per the applicable zoning district allowed uses.
         (c)   The site shall have visible signage stating the prohibited uses
on the vacant site.
         (d)   Parking of RVs, camper trailers, storage trailers, storage
containers and the temporary parking of tractor trailers is prohibited on
vacant sites.
      (7)   Active marketing. The Town of Wilkesboro requires active marketing
of a vacant site. Active marketing includes a visible for sale sign and
requires the property to be listed with a realtor of the developer's choice. A
quarterly marketing report shall be submitted to the Planning Department.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.527 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to facilitate the construction,
installation, and operation of solar energy systems (SESs) in the Town of
Wilkesboro in a manner that promotes economic development and ensures the
protection of health, safety, and welfare, while also avoiding adverse impacts
to important areas such as agricultural lands, endangered species habitats,
conservation lands, and other sensitive lands.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section to encourage the development of
SESs that reduce reliance on fossil fuels, bolster local economic development
and job creation, support the diversification of the state’s energy portfolio,
strengthen energy and grid security, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reduce
local air and water pollution, and aid North Carolina in meeting its renewable
portfolio standard. This section is not intended to abridge safety, health or
environmental requirements contained in other applicable codes, standards or
ordinances. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to nullify any
provisions of local, state or federal law.
   (B)   Definition.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to
convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area
of the system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which
extends to any fencing. The term applies, but is not limited to, solar
photovoltaic (PV) systems, solar thermal systems, and solar hot water systems.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section applies to the construction of any new SES within the
corporate and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Wilkesboro.
      (2)   An SES established prior to the effective date of this section
shall remain exempt.
         (a)   Exception: Modifications to an existing SES that increases the
SES area by more than 5% of the original footprint or changes the solar panel
type (e.g., photovoltaic to solar thermal) shall be subjected to this section.
         (b)   Maintenance and repair are not subject to this section.
         (c)   This section does not supersede regulations from local, state or
federal agencies. Some important examples of such regulations include, but are
not limited to:
      (3)   Building/electrical permits required. Nothing in this section
modifies already established building standards required to construct a SES.
      (4)   Onsite wastewater system avoidance. Nothing in this section
modifies already established Department of Health and Human Services
requirements. A SES shall not be constructed over onsite waste water systems
(e.g., septic systems) unless approved by the Department of Health and Human
Services.
      (5)   Stormwater permit required. Nothing in this section modifies the
requirements or exempts any SES of complying with the various stormwater
jurisdictions and regulations established by the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources. North Carolina state statute requires the acquisition of
stormwater permits for construction projects that impact stormwater runoff.
      (6)   Historic districts. Nothing in this section modifies already
established State Historic Preservation Office and/or local historic district
requirements, which may require additional permitting (certificates of
appropriateness) to install SESs in historic districts.
   (D)   Permits required. The types of permits required for an SES are listed
here:
      (1)   Level 1 Solar Energy System (Administrative Permitted Use). Level 1
SESs include the following:
         (a)   Roof-mounted on any code-compliant structure.
         (b)   Commercially ground-mounted on an area of up to 50% of the
footprint of the primary structure on the parcel, but no more than one-quarter
acre. Excludes all residential (R-8, R-6, R-20A and R-20) and Central Business
(B-1) zoning districts.
         (c)   Covering permanent parking lot and other hardscape areas, but no
more than one- quarter acres. Excludes all residential (R-8, R-6, R-20A and R-
20) and Central Business (B-1) zoning districts.
         (d)   Building/architecturally integrated solar (i.e., shingle,
hanging solar, canopy, etc.).
      (2)   Level 2 Solar Energy System (special use permit). Level 2 SESs are
ground-mounted systems not included in Level 1 that meet the area restrictions
listed below:
         (a)   All ground-mounted SESs which do not fall within Level 1;
         (b)   All ground-mounted SESs inside residential (R-8, R-6, R-20A and
R-20) and Central Business (B-1) zoning districts.
   (E)   Decommissioning.
      (1)   A decommissioning plan to ensure it is properly remediated upon the
end of the project life or facility abandonment is required when permitted as a
Level 2 SES and at the discretion of the Wilkesboro Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Prior to issuance of the building permit, an approved
decommissioning plan shall be recorded in the County Register of Deeds.
      (3)   The decommissioning plan shall include:
         (a)   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities;
         (b)   A description of any agreement (e.g., lease) with landowner
regarding decommissioning;
         (c)   An agreement between the applicant and the Town of Wilkesboro
prior to the beginning of construction;
         (d)   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be initiated;
         (e)   A list of the type of panels and material specifications being
utilized at the site;
         (f)   Removal of all structures (including transmission equipment and
fencing) and debris to a depth of three feet, restoration of the soil, and
restoration of vegetation within six months of the end of project life or
facility abandonment;
         (g)   Disturbed earth graded and re-seeded.
      (4)   The decommissioning plan shall state how the facility will be
decommissioned. A professional engineer’s estimated cost is required as part of
the plan. The financial resources to be used to accomplish decommissioning and
the escrow agent with which the resources shall be deposited shall be listed in
the plan.
      (5)   The applicant shall post a performance bond or equivalent financial
instrument for decommissioning. The bond shall be in favor of the Town of
Wilkesboro and shall contain a replenishment obligation. Evidence of the
decommissioning bond shall be in the form of a surety/performance bond or an
escrow account subject to approval of the Town of Wilkesboro Attorney.
      (6)   The Town of Wilkesboro shall have access to the escrow account
funds, performance bond, and/or equivalent financial instrument for the
expressed purpose of completing decommissioning, if not completed by the
applicant within six months of the end of the project life or facility
abandonment as defined.
      (7)   The Town of Wilkesboro is granted the right to seek injunctive
relief to effect or complete decommissioning, as well as reimbursement for
costs in excess of the amount deposited in the escrow account, surety/
performance bond, and/or equivalent financial instrument. The Town of
Wilkesboro may also file a lien against any real estate owned by the applicant
or applicant’s successor.
      (8)   The decommissioning plan and estimated cost of removal shall be
updated every five years, or upon change of ownership, and recorded in the
Wilkes County Register of Deeds.
      (9)   The following types of performance guarantees are permitted:
         (a)   A surety or performance bond that renews automatically;
         (b)   A certified check deposited with the Town of Wilkesboro Finance
Director, as escrow agent, who will deposit the check in an interest-bearing
account with all interest accruing to the applicant.
      (10)   The full amount of the surety/performance bond or certified check
must remain in full force and effect until the solar farm is decommissioned and
any necessary site restoration is completed.
      (11)   The land owner or tenant must notify the Town of Wilkesboro when
the site is abandoned.
      (12)   The landowner can request in writing that access roads and other
infrastructure of value and nonhazardous be left in place and not restored to
original condition.
   (F)   Aviation notification. The requirements below apply only to Level 2
systems over half an acre in size.
      (1)   A map analysis, showing a radius of five nautical miles from the
center of the SES, with any airport operations within this area highlighted,
shall be submitted with permit application.
      (2)   For consideration of potential impacts to low altitude military
flight paths, notification of intent to construct the SES shall be sent to the
NC Commanders Council at least 30 days before the special use permit hearing.
Notification shall include:
         (a)   Location of SES (i.e., map, coordinates, address, or parcel ID);
         (b)   Solar technology (i.e., polycrystalline PV, monocrystalline PV,
cadmium telluride PV, evacuated tube solar thermal, flat plate solar thermal,
etc.);
         (c)   Approximate number of solar modules/panels;
         (d)   System mounting (i.e., fixed-tilt on flat roof, fixed-tilt
ground-mount, one-axis tracking ground-mount, etc.);
         (e)   The maximum height of the array from the ground or roof surface;
         (f)   The maximum height of any new utility poles;
         (g)   Power capacity of the system, in both DC and AC Watts where
applicable;
         (h)   Acreage of array and acreage of total project;
         (i)   How the project will connect? (i.e., net meter, to existing
distribution line, to new-distribution line, to transmission line);
         (j)   Will a substation be constructed? If so, provide location and
size;
         (k)   Airport operations at an airport in the National Plan of
Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS) 12 within five nautical miles of the center
of SES, provide required information to the Federal Aviation Administration’s
(FAA’s) Airport District Office (ADO) with oversight of North Carolina;
         (l)   Is the site within five nautical miles of aviation operations?
If so, provide the required solar glare hazard analysis tool (SGHAT) analysis
results. The latest version of the SGHAT, or equivalent, shall be used per its
user’s manual to evaluate the solar glare aviation hazard. The full report for
each flight path and observation point shall be sent to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment at least 30 days before the special use permit hearing for Level 2
SESs. Proof of delivery of notification and date of delivery shall be submitted
with permit application.
   (G)   Visibility.
      (1)   SESs shall be constructed with buffering as required by the
applicable zoning district or development standards.
      (2)   Public signage (i.e., advertising, educational, etc.) as permitted
by local signage ordinance, including appropriate or required security and
safety signage.
      (3)   If lighting is provided at site, lighting shall be shielded and
downcast such that the light does not spill onto the adjacent parcel or the
night sky. Motion sensor control is preferred.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.528 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES OR COMPLEXES.
   (A)   Purpose and legislative intent.
      (1)   The Telecommunications Act of 1996 affirmed the Town of
Wilkesboro's authority concerning the placement, construction and modification
of wireless telecommunications facilities or complexes. This section provides
for the safe and efficient integration of wireless facilities or complexes
necessary for the provision of advanced wireless telecommunications services
throughout the community and to ensure the availability of reliable wireless
services to the public, government agencies, the economy and associated
businesses and first responders, with the intention of furthering the public's
safety and citizen's general welfare.
      (2)   The Town of Wilkesboro (town) finds that wireless
telecommunications facilities (facilities) and complexes may pose significant
concerns to the health, safety, public welfare, character and environment of
the town and its inhabitants. The town also recognizes that facilitating the
development of wireless service technology can be an economic development asset
to the community and a significant benefit to the economy, guests and/or
residents. In order to assure that the placement, construction or modification
of a facility or complex is consistent with the town's land use policies, the
town hereby adopts a single, comprehensive, wireless telecommunications
facility or complex application and permitting process.
      (3)   The intent of this section is to:
         (a)   Minimize the physical impact of wireless telecommunications
facilities on the community, protect the character of the community to the
extent reasonably possible;
         (b)   Establish a fair and efficient process for review and approval
of applications;
         (c)   Assure an integrated, comprehensive review of environmental
impacts of such facilities; and
         (d)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the town.
   (B)   Severability.
      (1)   If any word, phrase, sentence, part, division, or other portion of
this section or any application thereof to any person or circumstance is
declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason, then such word,
phrase, sentence, part, division, or other portion, or the proscribed
application thereof, shall be severable and the remaining provisions of this
section, and all applications thereof, not having been declared void,
unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and effect.
      (2)   Any special use permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
comprehensive and not severable. If part of a permit is deemed or ruled to be
invalid or unenforceable in any material respect, by a competent authority, or
is overturned by a competent authority, the permit shall be void in total, upon
determination by the town.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, and where not inconsistent
with the context of a particular section, the defined terms, phrases, words,
abbreviations, and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this
section. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense
include the future tense, words used in the plural number include words in the
singular number and words in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
      ACCESSORY FACILITY or STRUCTURE. An accessory facility or structure
serving or being used in conjunction with wireless telecommunications
facilities or complexes, including but not limited to utility or transmission
equipment storage sheds or cabinets.
      AMEND, AMENDMENT and AMENDED. Any change, addition, correction, deletion,
replacement or substitution, other than typographical changes of no effect.
      APPLICANT. Any wireless service provider submitting an application for a
special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
      APPLICATION. All necessary and required documentation that an applicant
submits in order to receive a special use permit or a building permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities.
      ANTENNA. A system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves or radio frequency or other wireless signals.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION or COC. A required document issued by the town
that confirms that all work represented in the application:
         (a)   Was properly permitted;
         (b)   Was done in compliance with and fulfilled all conditions of all
permits, including any final completion deadline;
         (c)   Was fully constructed as approved and permitted; and
         (d)   A final inspection was requested, conducted and the facility or
complex passed the final inspection.
      CO-LOCATION. The use of an approved telecommunications structure to
support antenna for the provision of wireless services.
      COMMERCIAL IMPRACTICABILITY or COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE. The inability
to perform an act on terms that are reasonable in commerce, the cause or
occurrence of which could not have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen and
that jeopardizes the financial efficacy of the project. The inability to
achieve a satisfactory financial return on investment or profit, standing alone
and for a single site, shall not deem a situation to be “commercially
impracticable” and shall not render an act or the terms of an agreement
“commercially impracticable”.
      COMPLETED APPLICATION. An application that contains all necessary and
required information and/or data as set forth in this section and that is
necessary to enable an informed decision to be made with respect to an
application and action on the application.
      COMPLEX. The entire site or facility, including all structures and
equipment located at the site.
      DAS or DISTRIBUTIVE ACCESS SYSTEM. A technology using antenna combining
technology allowing for multiple carriers or wireless service providers to use
the same set of antennas, cabling or fiber optics.
      ELIGIBLE FACILITY. An existing wireless tower or base station that
involves collocation of new transmission equipment or the replacement of
transmission equipment that does not constitute a  substantial modification. An
eligible facility application shall be acted upon administratively and shall
not require a special use permit, but shall require staff administrative
approval.
      FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration, or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
      FACILITY. A set of wireless transmitting and/or receiving equipment,
including any associated electronics and electronics shelter or cabinet and
generator.
      FCC. Means the Federal Communications Commission, or its duly designated
and authorized successor agency.
      HEIGHT. The distance measured from the pre-existing grade level to the
highest point on the tower or support structure, even if said highest point is
an antenna or lightening protection device. As regards increasing the height of
an existing structure, height means the height above the top of the structure
prior to any work related to a wireless facility.
      IN-KIND REPLACEMENT. Replacing a component(s) that is malfunctioning with
a properly functioning component of the same weight and dimensions and that
does not enable an increase in revenue for the service provider or increase the
compensation paid to the owner or manager of the support structure.
      MAINTENANCE. Plumbing, electrical, carpentry or mechanical work that may
or may not require a building permit, but that does not constitute a
modification of the WTF.
      MODIFICATION or MODIFY. The addition, removal or change of any of the
physical and visually discernable components or aspects of a wireless facility
or complex with identical components, including but not limited to antennas,
cabling, equipment shelters, landscaping, fencing, utility feeds, changing the
color or materials of any visually discernable components, vehicular access,
parking and/or an upgrade or change-out of equipment for better or more modern
equipment. Adding a new wireless carrier or service provider to an existing
support structure or tower as a co-location is a modification, unless the
height, profile or size of the compound is increased, in which case it is not a
modification.
      NECESSARY or NECESSITY or NEED. What is technologically required for the
equipment to function as designed by the manufacturer and that anything less
will result in the effect of prohibiting the provision of service as intended
and described in the narrative of the application. Necessary, necessity or need
does not mean what may be desired, preferred or the most cost-efficient
approach and is not related to an applicant’s specific chosen design standards.
      NIER. Non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, estate, trust, partnership, joint
stock company, association of two or more persons having a joint common
interest, or any other entity.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. See WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES or PWS or PERSONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
or PTS. Shall have the same meaning as defined and used in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
      REPAIRS and MAINTENANCE. The replacement or repair of any components of a
wireless facility or complex where the replacement is identical to the
component being replaced, or for any matters that involve the normal repair and
maintenance of a wireless facility or complex without the addition, removal or
change of any of the physical or visually discernable components or aspects of
a wireless facility or complex that will impose new visible burdens of the
facility or complex as originally permitted. Any work that changes the services
provided to or from the facility, or the equipment, is not repairs or
maintenance.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. The official document or permit by which an applicant
is allowed to file for a building permit to construct and use a facility or
complex as granted or issued by the town.
      STEALTH or STEALTH SITING TECHNIQUE. A design or treatment that minimizes
adverse aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property, buildings, and
other facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the same area as
the requested location of such wireless telecommunications facilities, which
shall mean building the least visually and physically intrusive facility and
complex that is not technologically or commercially impracticable under the
facts and circumstances. Stealth technique includes such techniques as:
         (a)   DAS or its functional equivalent; or
         (b)   Camouflage where the tower is disguised to make it less visually
obtrusive and not recognizable to the average person as a wireless facility or
complex.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STRUCTURAL CAPABILITY or STRUCTURAL CAPACITY or STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other standard, code,
regulation or law, up to and not exceeding a literal 100% of the designed
loading and stress capability of the support structure.
      SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. A change or modification that:
         (a)   Increases the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
            1.   More than 10%; or
            2.   The height of one additional antenna array with separation
from the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet; or
         (b)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of the wireless support structure the greater of:
            1.   More than 20 feet; or
            2.   More than the width of the wireless support structure at the
level of the appurtenance; or
         (c)   Increases the square footage of the existing equipment compound
by more than 2,500 square feet.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission and/or reception of audio, video,
data, and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other
electronic or electromagnetic systems.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE. See definition for wireless telecommunications
facility.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE. A structure used primarily to support
equipment used to provide wireless communications or was originally constructed
primarily for such purpose.
      TEMPORARY. Not permanent in relation to all aspects and components of
this section and that will exist for fewer than 90 calendar days.
      TOWER. Any structure designed primarily to support an antenna and/or
other equipment for receiving and/or transmitting a wireless signal and is the
lesser of:
         (a)   More than ten feet taller than the adjacent buildings or trees;
or
         (b)   Taller than 40 feet.
      TOWN. The Town of Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY or FACILITIES (WTF OR WTFS),
FACILITY, SITE, COMPLEX, TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE and PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY
SITE. A specific location at which a structure that is designed or intended to
be used to house, support or accommodate antennas or other transmitting or
receiving equipment is located. This includes without limit, towers and support
structures of all types and kinds, including but not limited to buildings,
church steeples, silos, water towers, signs or any other structure that is used
or is proposed to be used as a support structure for antennas or the functional
equivalent of such. It expressly includes all related facilities and equipment
such as cabling, radios and other electronic equipment, equipment shelters and
enclosures, cabinets and other structures associated with the complex used to
provide, though not limited to, radio, television, cellular, SMR, paging, 911,
personal communications services (PCS), commercial satellite services,
microwave services, internet access service and any commercial wireless
telecommunication service whether or not licensed by the FCC.
      ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Zoning Board of Adjustment of the Town of
Wilkesboro.
   (D)   General policies and procedures for applications under this section.
In order to ensure that the location, placement, construction and modification
of a facility or the components of a complex do not endanger or jeopardize the
town’s health, safety, public welfare, environmental features, the nature and
character of the community or neighborhood and other aspects of the quality of
life specifically listed elsewhere in this section, the town hereby adopts an
overall policy and related procedures with respect to the submittal, review,
approval and issuance of permits or administrative approval granted authority
for wireless facilities for the express purpose of achieving the following
outcomes:
      (1)   Requiring a special use permit for any new complex, facility or any
substantial modification of a facility, complex or for a co-located facility;
      (2)   Requiring administrative approval and a properly issued building
permit for any co-location or modification of a facility or complex that is not
a substantial modification or substantial co-location;
      (3)   Implementing an application process and requirements;
      (4)   Establishing procedures for examining an application and issuing a
special use permit or administrative approval that are fair and consistent;
      (5)   Promoting, and requiring wherever possible, the sharing and/or co-
location of support structures among service providers;
      (6)   Requiring, promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the
placement, height and quantity of attachments to a facility or complex in such
a manner as to minimize the physical and visual impact on the community,
including but not limited to the use of stealth siting techniques;
      (7)   Requiring that the facility and complex shall be the least visually
intrusive among those options that are not technologically impracticable given
the facts and circumstances;
      (8)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment is officially the designated agency
or body of the town to whom applications for a special use permit for a
facility or complex must be made, and that is authorized to make decisions with
respect to granting or not granting or revoking special use permits applied for
under this section;
      (9)   The Wilkesboro Town Council hereby designates the Planning &
Community Development Director or designee as the authority for requests for
anything other than a substantial modification or special use permit, i.e. for
all administrative approvals;
      (10)   (a)   Prior to the submission of an application there shall be a
pre-application meeting for all intended applications. The pre-application
meeting may be held either on site or telephonically as deemed appropriate by
the Planning & Community Development Director or designee. The purpose of the
pre-application meeting will be to address:
            (1)   Issues that will help to expedite the review and permitting
process; and
            (2)   Specific issues or concerns the town or the applicant may
have.
         (b)   Costs of the town’s permitting process and to prepare for and
attend the pre-application meeting will be borne by the applicant and paid for
out of a fee set forth in the town’s Schedule of Fees, which shall have been
paid to the town prior to any site visit or pre-application meeting or any work
related to an intended application preceding the site visit or pre-application
meeting.
      (11)   If there has not been a prior site visit for the requested
facility or complex within the previous six months a site visit shall be
conducted;
      (12)   An applicant shall submit to the town the number of completed
applications determined to be needed at the pre-application meeting. If Zoning
Board of Adjustment action is required, applications will not be transmitted
for consideration until the application is deemed complete;
      (13)   The owner(s) of the support structure to which antennas or related
equipment are to be attached must be an official applicant of record, unless
the owner is the town, in which case, to prevent a conflict of interest, the
town shall not be a party to the application;
      (14)   All applicants shall closely follow the instructions for preparing
an application. Not following the instructions without permission to deviate
from such shall result in the application being deemed incomplete and a tolling
of the time allowed for action on an application until a complete application
is received;
      (15)   Within 30 days of the date of submission of an application the
applicant shall be notified in writing of any deficiencies related to the
completeness of the application. Remediation of deficiencies in an application
shall be deemed an amendment of the application that was received;
      (16)   The town may deny applications not meeting the requirements stated
herein or which are otherwise not complete after proper notice and a reasonable
opportunity to make the application complete has been afforded. Applications
will be deemed abandoned if left incomplete for more than 90 days after the
date of notice of incompleteness;
      (17)   No work of any kind on or at a facility or complex shall be
started until the application is reviewed and approved and the special use
permit or administrative approval, as applicable, has been issued, and a
building permit has been issued in accordance with the Town’s Code;
      (18)   Any and all representations made by the applicant or that are made
in support of the application shall be deemed to be on the record, whether
written or verbal, and shall be deemed to have been relied upon in good faith
by the town. Any verbal representation shall be treated as if it were made in
writing;
      (19)   Other than to remediate non-compliant situations related to
matters of safety or the conditions of a permit, no permits for work at a
facility or complex shall be issued where the facility or complex is not in
full compliance with all applicable local, state and federal laws, rules,
regulations and orders. A facility or complex not in full compliance with this
section shall be required to be brought into full compliance before any permit
of any kind will be issued;
      (20)   An application shall be signed on behalf of the applicant(s) by a
person vested with the authority to bind and commit the applicant attesting to
the truthfulness, completeness and accuracy of the information presented;
      (21)   The applicant must provide documentation to substantiate that it
has the right to proceed as proposed on the site or at the complex in the form
of an executed copy of the lease with the landowner or landlord or a signed
letter of agency granting authorization. If the applicant owns the site or
complex, a copy of the ownership record is required;
      (22)   Applications shall include written commitment statements to the
effect that:
         (a)   The applicant’s facility or complex shall at all times and
without exception be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all
conditions of all permits, as well as all applicable and permissible local
codes, ordinances, and regulations and all applicable town, state and federal
laws, rules, and regulations, unless specifically granted relief by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment in writing; and
         (b)   The construction of the facility or complex is legally
permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that the applicant is
licensed to do business in the state.
      (23)   Where a certification is called for in this section, such
certification shall bear the signature and seal of a professional engineer
licensed in the state;
      (24)   A support structure and any and all accessory or associated
structures shall maximize the use of building materials, colors and textures
designed to blend with the structure to which it may be affixed and to
harmonize with the natural surroundings. This shall include the utilization of
stealth or camouflage or concealment technique as may be required by the town;
      (25)   All utilities at a complex or site shall be installed underground
and in compliance with all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the town,
including specifically, but not limited to applicable electrical codes;
      (26)   At a facility or complex needing vehicular access, an access road,
parking and turn around space for emergency vehicles shall be provided to
assure adequate emergency and service access. Maximum use of existing roads,
whether public or private, shall be made to the extent practicable. Road
construction shall at all times minimize ground disturbance and the cutting of
vegetation. Road grades shall closely follow natural contours to assure minimal
visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion. If the current access road or turn
around space is deemed in disrepair or in need of remedial work to make it
serviceable and safe and in compliance with any applicable regulations as
determined at a site visit, the application shall contain a commitment to
remedy or restore the road or turn around space so that it is serviceable and
safe and in compliance with applicable regulations;
      (27)   All work at a facility or complex shall be done in strict
compliance with all current applicable technical, safety and safety-related
codes adopted by the town, state, or United States, including but not limited
to the most recent edition of the TIA ANSI Code, National Electrical Safety
Code, the National Electrical Code, the Occupational and Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) regulations, recommended practices of the National
Association of Tower Erectors and accepted and responsible workmanlike industry
practices. The codes referred to are codes that include, but are not limited
to, construction, building, electrical, fire, safety, health, and land use
codes. In the event of a conflict between or among any of the preceding the
more stringent shall apply;
      (28)   A holder of a special use permit or administrative approval
granted authority granted under this section shall obtain, at its own expense,
all permits and licenses required by applicable law, ordinance, rule,
regulation or code, and must maintain the same, in full force and effect, for
as long as required by the town or other governmental entity or agency having
jurisdiction over the applicant;
      (29)   Unless such is proven to be technologically impracticable, the
town requires the co-location of new antenna arrays on existing structures, as
opposed to the construction of a new complex or support structure or increasing
the height, footprint or profile of a facility or complex beyond the conditions
of the approved special use permit for a existing facility or complex. In
instances not qualifying as an eligible facility, the applicant shall submit a
comprehensive report inventorying all existing structures more than 50 feet in
height within one-half mile of the location of any proposed new facility or
complex;
      (30)   An applicant intending to co-locate on or at an existing facility
or complex shall be required to document the intent of the existing owner to
permit its use by the applicant.
      (31)   Co-located equipment shall consist only of the minimum antenna
array technologically needed to provide service primarily and essentially
within the town, to the extent practicable, unless good cause is shown in the
form of clear and convincing evidence;
      (32)   A DAS system that is owned or operated by a commercial carrier and
is part of a commercial wireless system, or are used for commercial purposes,
is expressly included in the context of this section, regardless of the
location or whether the facility or any of its components is located inside or
outside a structure or building;
      (33)   The existence of a lease or an option to lease shall not be deemed
justification for not complying with the siting priorities set forth in this
section, as well as other applicable land use and zoning regulations. An
applicant may not by-pass sites of higher siting priority than the priority
chosen solely because the site proposed is under lease or an option to lease
exists. If a site other than the number one priority or attaching to an
existing structure is proposed, the applicant must demonstrate and explain to
the reasonable satisfaction of the town why co-location is technically or
commercially impracticable. Contractual or build-to-suit agreements between
carriers and a proposed tower owner shall not be a valid basis for any claim of
exemption, exception or waiver from compliance with the siting priorities;
      (34)   Any technical information must be provided in such a manner,
detail and form that the content and any conclusions are able to be verified by
a third party using the information used and provided by the applicant;
      (35)   All costs associated with the preparation and submission of an
application and/or necessitated by the requirements for obtaining and
maintaining any and all town permits shall be borne by the applicant or
permittee;
      (36)   Any new wireless facility shall be designed and constructed so as
to be the least visually intrusive, create the least visual impact reasonably
possible and have the least negative impact on nearby property values, provided
that, pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II), compliance with this
requirement does not prohibit or effectively serve to prohibit the provision of
the intended service from one or more facilities;
      (37)   No new facility or antenna array shall be identifiable,
recognizable or discernable as a wireless facility or antenna by a typical lay-
person from a distance of 250 feet or more;
      (38)   The fact that a proposed use satisfies all specific requirements
for a special use permit in a given type of zoning or land use district does
not create a presumption that the use is compatible or in harmony with nearby
properties within 1,000 feet and, in itself, is not sufficient to require the
grant of a special use permit.
   (E)   Responsible party(s). 
      (1)   With the exception of the town itself, the owner(s) of a facility
or complex, any support structure used to accommodate wireless facilities, and
of the land upon which a facility support structure or complex is located,
shall at all times be jointly and individually responsible for:
         (a)   The clean, neat, non-littered and safe condition of the facility
or complex, support structure and all components on the site related to the
facility or complex;
         (b)   Assuring that all activities of owners, users, or lessees
occurring on the site, and all components on the site related to the facility
or complex, are at all times in compliance with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, orders, and permits related to the facility or
complex; and
         (c)   Assuring the proper permitting as required by this section and
other town regulations by all lessees and users of the facility or complex,
including but not limited to any upgrades and/or modifications of equipment.
      (2)   Said owner(s) shall regularly and diligently monitor activities at
the site to assure that the facility or complex is operated in compliance with
this section, other town regulations and any special use permit.
   (F)   Fees. All fees and charges, including but not limited to application
fees, expert assistance fees, and permit fees, shall be as set forth in the
town’s Schedule of Fees. For new towers, support structures or substantial
modifications, the expert assistance fee shall be as set forth in the town’s
Schedule of Fees, and to prevent taxpayer subsidization of the Applicant shall
be $8,000 for new towers, $2,500 for substantial modifications, and $1,500 for
modifications.
   (G)   Existing facilities and complexes.
      (1)   Any legally permitted facility, tower or other support structure or
complex that exists on the effective date of this section of the Town’s Codes
shall be allowed to continue as it presently exists, provided that:
         (a)   All work was properly permitted;
         (b)   The facility or complex is in compliance with all applicable
local, state and federal laws, rules regulations, orders and permit conditions;
         (c)   The site is in compliance with the latest version of TIA ANSI
222 as regards the physical condition of the Site; and
         (d)   A certificate of completion (COC) was issued for the most recent
work performed;
      (2)   Any work not properly previously permitted prior to the adoption of
this section must be properly permitted within 90 days of the effective date of
this section or prior to any modification of, on or at the site or facility.
      (3)   Any new co-location and/or modification of a facility, tower or
other support structure or complex or a carrier’s equipment located on the
tower or facility, must be permitted under this section and the entire facility
or complex and any new co-location or modification shall comply with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations, including obtaining a valid COC.
   (H)   Certificate of completion.
      (1)   No work shall be allowed to be done at or on any facility or
complex, excepting normal repair and maintenance work as defined in this
section, for which the owner cannot produce the coc for the most recent work,
until a final inspection has been conducted and a COC has been issued. The
owner of the facility, tower or other support structure or complex shall pay
for the actual cost of the required final inspection prior to the inspection
being conducted. if the facility or complex does not pass the initial final
inspection, the owner shall be required to pay for any subsequent re-inspection
prior to the re-inspection being conducted. A passing final inspection is
required prior to the issuance of a COC.
      (2)   If no COC can be produced for previously done work, at the
discretion of the Planning & Community Development Director, per day per
violation fines and other penalties as allowed by law may be imposed until the
facility or complex is compliant and the required COC has been issued.
   (I)   Exclusions. The following shall be exempt from this section:
      (1)   Any facilities expressly exempt from the town’s zoning, land use,
siting, building and permitting authority.
      (2)   Any reception or transmission devises expressly exempted under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
      (3)   A facility used exclusively for private, non-commercial radio and
television reception and private citizen’s bands, licensed amateur radio and
other similar non-commercial telecommunications that is less than 100 feet
above ground level.
      (4)   Facilities used exclusively for providing wireless service(s) or
technologies where:
         (a)   There is no charge for the use of the wireless service;
         (b)   The facility or complex does not require a new tower or increase
the height or profile of the structure being attached to; and
         (c)   The service is not intended to be useable more than 75 feet from
the antenna.
   (J)   Application requirements for a new tower, support structure, or a
substantial modification or co-location.
      (1)   All applicants for a special use permit for a new wireless facility
or complex, including for a new tower or other new support structure or that
constitutes a substantial modification, shall comply with the requirements set
forth in this section. In addition to the required information set forth in
this section, all applications for the construction or installation of new
wireless facility or complex or substantial modification shall contain the
information hereinafter set forth prior to the issuance of a special use
permit. Any technical information must be provided in such a manner, form and
with such content that it is able to be verified by a third party using the
information used and provided by the applicant.
      (2)   Ownership and management.
         (a)   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of the person
preparing the application;
         (b)   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of the
property owner and the applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If
the owner of the structure is different than the applicant, the name, e-mail
address and all necessary contact information shall be provided;
         (c)   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
         (d)   A copy of the FCC license(s) applicable for the intended use(s)
of the wireless telecommunications facilities, including all FCC licensed
frequency bands to be used; and
         (e)   The applicant shall disclose in writing any agreement in
existence that would limit or preclude the ability of the applicant to share
any new telecommunication tower or support structure that it constructs or has
constructed for it.
      (3)   Zoning and planning.
         (a)   The Zoning District or designation in which the property is
situated;
         (b)   The size of the property footprint on which the structure to be
built or attached is located, stated both in square feet and lot line
dimensions, and a survey showing the location of all property lot lines;
         (c)   The location, size of the footprint and height of all existing
and proposed structures, enclosures and cabinets on the property on which the
structure is located and that are related to the subject of the application;
         (d)   A site plan to scale, not a hand drawn sketch, showing the
footprint of the Support Structure and the type, location and dimensions of
access drives, proposed landscaping and buffers in compliance with the Town’s
Building or Development Code, including but not limited to fencing and any
other requirements of site plans;
         (e)   Elevation drawings showing the profile or the vertical rendition
of the tower or support structure at the facility or complex and identifying
all existing and proposed attachments, including the height above the existing
grade of each attachment and the owner or operator of each, as well as all
lighting;
         (f)   The type of tower or support structure, the number of antenna
arrays proposed to be able to be accommodated and the basis for the
calculations of the tower’s or support structure’s capability to accommodate
the required number of antenna arrays for which the structure must be designed;
         (g)   Disclosure in writing of any agreement in existence prior to the
submission of the application that would limit or preclude the ability of the
applicant to share any new telecommunication tower that it constructs; and
         (h)   A certified statement of:
            1.   The total cost of construction for the work associated with
the application; and
            2.   The total cost of all equipment of the applicant at the
facility.
         To verify the accuracy of the information, the town reserves the right
to require copies of applicable invoices or other clear and convincing
corroborating evidence.
      (4)   Safety.
         (a)   The age of the tower or support structure and complex stated in
years, including the date of the grant of the original permit;
         (b)   A description of the type of tower, e.g. guyed, self-supporting
lattice or monopole, or other type of support structure;
         (c)   For a tower, the make, model, type and manufacturer of the tower
and the structural design analysis and report, including the calculations,
certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state, proving the tower
or support structure’s capability to safely accommodate the facilities of the
applicant without change or modification;
         (d)   If a substantial co-location, change or modification of a
facility or complex is needed, a detailed narrative explaining what changes are
needed and why they are needed;
         (e)   A complete, unredacted copy of the foundation design and report
for the tower or other structure, including a geotechnical sub-surface soils
investigation report and foundation design for the facility;
         (f)   If substantially modifying or co-locating on an existing tower
or other support structure, a complete, unredacted and certified TIA ANSI 222
Report regarding the physical condition of the complex and all of its
components done within the previous six months. If such report has not been
done within the previous six months, one shall be done and submitted as part of
the application. No building permit shall be issued for any wireless facility
or related equipment where the structure being attached to is in need of
remediation to comply with the requirements of this division and other adopted
standards of the town regarding the physical condition and/or safety of the
facility, unless and until all remediation work that is deemed needed has been
completed, or a schedule for the remediation work has been approved by the Town
Planning Department;
         (g)   In an instance involving a tower with only a single array of
antennas, or for the first antenna array to be attached to a tower where the
array will be 33 feet or more above ground level, and not within 100 feet of
areas to which the public has or could reasonably have or gain access to, in
lieu of a full RF emissions study, if deemed appropriate by the town, signed
documentation in the form of the FCC’s “Checklist to Determine whether a
Facility may be Categorically Excluded” may in certain cases be allowed to be
used and shall be provided to verify that the facility and complex with the
proposed installation will be in full compliance with the current FCC’s RF
Emissions regulations;
         (h)   In certain instances the town may deem it appropriate to have a
post-construction on-site RF survey of the facility or complex done after the
construction or modification and activation of the facility or complex, such to
be done under the direction of the town or its designee, and an un-redacted
copy of the survey results provided, along with all calculations, prior to
issuance of a certificate of compliance. Such study shall reflect the
cumulative effects, readings or levels of all active RF equipment at the site;
         (i)   In the event the town deems it necessary to determine compliance
with the FCC’s maximum permitted exposure (MPE) rules, and in lieu of the
procedure contained in division (J)(4)(h) of this section, the town expressly
reserves the right to request the involvement of the FCC and/or OSHA
(Occupational Safety and Health Administration) to determine or verify
compliance with federal standards and guidelines that the town, itself, may be
prohibited from determining; and
         (j)   If not submitted in a previous application, a signed statement
that the applicant will expeditiously remedy any physical or RF interference
with other telecommunications or wireless devices or services.
      (5)   A written copy of an analysis completed by a qualified individual
or organization to determine if the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility or complex is in compliance with Federal Aviation Administration
Regulation Part 77, and if it requires lighting, including any facility or
complex where the application proposes to increase the height of the existing
tower or support structure.
      (6)   New towers shall be prohibited on private property in residential
districts, historic districts and areas officially deemed to be visual or
sensitive scenic areas within the town’s corporate limits.
      (7)   All applications for a proposed facility or complex applicable to
this section shall contain clear and convincing evidence that the facility or
complex is sited and designed so as to create the least visual intrusiveness
reasonably possible given the facts and circumstances involved. To achieve this
goal the town expressly reserves the right to require the use of stealth or
camouflage siting techniques such as, but not limited to, DAS, a small cell
facility or a functional equivalent as regards size, and such shall be subject
to approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (8)   If proposing a new tower or support structure, or a substantial co-
location or modification of an existing structure, the applicant shall be
required to submit clear and convincing evidence that there is no alternative
solution within the search ring of the proposed site that would be less
visually intrusive and that not to permit the proposed new tower or support
structure, or a substantial co-location or modification would result in the
prohibition of service or the perpetuation of a significant gap in service.
      (9)   An applicant proposing a new tower or support structure shall use
the largest search ring technically possible, and may be required to prove
technically that the search ring used is the largest that could be used.
      (10)   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new tower
or support structure or substantial modification, the applicant shall hold a
“balloon test” prior to the initial public hearing on the application. The
applicant shall arrange to fly, or raise upon a temporary mast, a minimum of a
ten feet in length brightly colored balloon with horizontal stabilizers, at the
maximum height of the proposed new tower or support structure or substantial
modification. Unless conditions at the time preclude it, for reasons of
instability vis-à-vis wind speed, the use of spherical balloons shall not be
permitted.
      (11)   At the option of the Planning & Community Development Director, a
community meeting may be held concurrent with the balloon test, the
notification of which shall be as set forth in division (J)(12)(d) of this
section.
      (12)   At least 14 days prior to the conduct of the balloon test, a sign
shall be erected so as to be clearly visible from the road nearest the proposed
site and shall be removed no later than 14 days after the conduct of the
balloon test. The sign shall be at least four feet by eight feet in size and
shall be readable from the road by a person with 20/20 vision.
         (a)   Such sign shall be placed off, but as near to, the public right-
of-way as is possible.
         (b)   Such sign shall contain the times and date(s) of the balloon
test and contact information.
         (c)   The dates, (including a second date, in case of poor visibility
or wind in excess of 15 mph on the initial date) times and location of this
balloon test shall be advertised by the applicant seven and 14 days in advance
of the first test date in a newspaper with a general circulation in the town
and as agreed to by the town. The applicant shall inform the town in writing,
of the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in advance. The balloon
shall be flown for at least four consecutive hours between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00
p.m. on the dates chosen. The primary date shall be on a weekend, but the
second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date, may be on a
weekday. A report with pictures from various locations of the balloon shall be
provided with the application.
         (d)   The applicant shall notify all property owners and residents
located within 1,500 of the nearest property line of the subject property of
the proposed construction of the tower and facility or complex and of the date
(s) and time(s) of the balloon test. Such notice shall be provided at least 14
days prior to the conduct of the balloon test and shall be delivered by first-
class mail. The Planning & Community Development Director shall be provided an
attested copy of the list of addresses to which notification is provided. The
wireless telecommunications facility or complex shall be structurally designed
to accommodate at least four antenna arrays, with each array to be flush
mounted or as close to flush-mounted as is reasonably possible.
      (13)   The applicant shall provide certified documentation in the form of
a structural analysis and report, including all calculations, showing that the
facility or complex will be constructed to meet all local, state and federal
structural requirements for loads, including wind and ice loads and including,
but not limited to all applicable TIA ANSI 222 guidelines. In the event of a
conflict the more stringent shall apply.
      (14)   The applicant shall furnish a visual impact assessment, which may
be required to include:
         (a)   A computer generated “Zone of Visibility Map” at a minimum of
one mile radius from the proposed structure shall be provided to illustrate
locations from which the proposed installation may be seen, with and without
foliage; and
         (b)   To-scale pictorial representations (photo simulations) of
“before and after” views from key viewpoints inside of the town as may be
appropriate and required, including but not limited to state highways and other
major roads, state and local parks, other public lands, historic districts,
preserves and historic sites normally open to the public, and from any other
location where the site is visible to a large number of visitors, travelers or
residents. Guidance will be provided concerning the appropriate key viewpoints
at the pre-application meeting. In addition to photographic simulations to
scale showing the visual impact, the applicant shall provide a map showing the
locations of where the pictures were taken and the distance(s) of each location
from the proposed structure.
      (15)   The applicant shall provide a written description and a visual
rendering demonstrating how it shall effectively screen from view the bottom 15
feet of the facility or complex and all related equipment and structures
associated with the facility or complex.
      (16)   A building permit shall not be issued for the construction of a
new tower or other support structure until:
         (a)   There is an application for or by a specific carrier that
documents with verifiable technical evidence that the facility or complex is
necessary for that carrier to serve the community and that co-location on an
existing structure is not feasible; or
         (b)   That no owner of an existing structure within the applicant’s
search ring will allow attachment to the owner’s building or other type of
structure.
      (17)   Co-location on an existing structure is not reasonably feasible if
such is technically or commercially impracticable or the owner of the structure
is unwilling to enter into a contract for such use at a fair and reasonable
price. If an applicant feels the price is unreasonable, sufficient
documentation in the form of clear and convincing evidence to support such a
claim shall be submitted to determine whether co-location on a given existing
structure is commercially impracticable or otherwise unreasonable.
   (K)   Requirements for eligible facility co-locations or modifications.
      (1)   For the co-location, modification or upgrade of a wireless facility
that qualifies as an eligible facilities request under applicable law, the
following information shall be required to be contained in an application. Any
technical information must be provided in such a manner, form and with such
content that it is able to be verified by a third party using the information
used and provided by the applicant.
      (2)   Safety.
         (a)   The age of the tower or other support structure in years,
including the date of the grant of the original permit;
         (b)   A description of the type of tower, e.g. guyed, self-supporting
lattice or monopole, or a description of another other type of support
structure;
         (c)   Certified documentation in the form of a structural analysis and
report done by a professional engineer licensed in the State of North Carolina.
Said analysis and report shall include all supporting calculations, showing
that the facility, as it exists, will meet all local, state and federal
structural requirements for loads, including wind and ice loads and including,
but not limited to, the North Carolina Building Code and all applicable TIA
ANSI 222 guidelines. In the event of a conflict, the more stringent shall
apply;
         (d)   A copy of:
            1.   The installed foundation design, including a geotechnical sub-
surface soils investigation report; and, if necessary;
            2.   A foundation remediation design and recommendation for the
tower or other structure.
         (e)   A certified, unredacted report and supporting documentation,
including photographs, regarding the physical situation and physical condition
of all equipment and facilities at the site in the form of a report based on an
onsite inspection done pursuant to and in compliance with the latest version of
TIA ANSI 222. The inspection shall be done by a qualified individual
experienced in performing such inspections and the report shall be signed by an
individual with authority to order any needed remediation or resolution of
issues;
         (f)   A copy of the FCC licenses for each frequency band applicable
for the intended use of the wireless telecommunications transmission and/or
receive equipment;
         (g)   A list of all frequencies, to be used at the facility;
         (h)   The number, type and model of the antenna(s) proposed, along
with a copy of the manufacturer’s specification sheet(s), i.e. cut sheet(s),
for the antennas; and
         (i)   Certification from the owner of the facility certifying that the
facility and all attachments thereto are currently in compliance with the
conditions of the approved special use permit or administrative approval or
identifying any non-compliant situation.
      (3)   Ownership and management.
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
application;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the property owner and
the applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If the owner of the
structure is different than the applicant, the name and all necessary contact
information shall be provided;
         (c)   The Postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
and
         (d)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (4)   Construction.
         (a)   The total cost of construction showing the cost of labor all new
and/or replacement components and equipment.
      (5)   In certain instances the town may deem it appropriate to have an
on-site RF survey of the facility performed after the construction or
modification and activation of the facility, such to be done under the
direction of the town or its designee, and an un-redacted copy of the survey
results provided, along with all calculations, prior to issuance of a
certificate of compliance. Such study shall reflect the cumulative effects,
readings or levels of all active RF equipment at the site.
      (6)   In the event the town deems it necessary to determine compliance
with the FCC’s maximum permitted exposure (MPE) rules, and in lieu of the
procedure contained in division (K)(5) of this section, the town expressly
reserves the right to seek the involvement of the FCC and/or OSHA (Occupational
Safety and Health Administration) to determine or verify compliance with
federal standards and guidelines that the town, itself, may be prohibited from
determining.
      (7)   Attachments to existing structures other than towers.
         (a)   Attachments to buildings: To preserve and protect the nature and
character of the area and create the least visually intrusive impact reasonably
possible under the facts and circumstances, any attachment to a building or
other structure with a facie, the antennas shall be mounted on the facie
without increasing the height of the building or other structure, unless it can
be proven that such will prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the
provision of service, and all such attachments and exposed cabling shall use
camouflage or stealth techniques to match as closely as possible the color and
texture of the structure.
         (b)   Utility poles and light standards: If attaching to a utility
pole or light standard, no equipment may extend more than 10% of the existing
height beyond the top of the structure and no equipment other than cabling
shall be lower than 15 feet above the ground.
         (c)   Attachments to water tanks: If attaching to a water tank, in
order to maintain the current profile and height, mounting on the top of the
tank or the use of a corral shall only be permitted if the applicant can prove
that to locate elsewhere less visually on the tank will prohibit or have the
effect of prohibiting the provision of service or that to do so would be
technologically impracticable.
         (d)   Profile: So as to be the least visually intrusive and create the
smallest profile reasonably possible under the facts and circumstances
involved, and thereby have the least adverse visual effect, all antennas
attached shall be flush mounted or as near to flush mounted as is possible,
unless it can be proven that such would prohibit or serve to prohibit the
provision of service or be technologically impracticable.
   (L)   Location of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   No tower or other new support structure taller than 35 feet shall
be permitted in any existing or planned (i.e. platted) residential
neighborhood, nor within one-half mile of any existing or planned (i.e.
platted) residential neighborhood.
      (2)   If a new telecommunications support structure is proposed to be
located within one-half mile of an existing or planned residential neighborhood
and is proven by clear and convincing technical information to be a technical
necessity for the applicant’s service to be provided in the intended service
area of the proposed facility, irrespective of the type of zoning, the support
structure shall not be taller than ten feet above the tallest obstruction
between the proposed support structure and a residential neighborhood.
      (3)   Applicants shall locate, site and erect all facilities and
associated equipment in accordance with the following priorities, in the
following order:
         (a)   On existing structures without increasing the dimensions or size
of the structure.
         (b)   On existing structures more than one thousand feet from the
nearest boundary of the public right-of-way without increasing the height or
size of the profile of the tower or structure by more than is allowed for an
eligible facility.
         (c)   On existing structures without increasing the height of the
structure by more than is needed, as such need can be proven by clear and
convincing verifiable technical evidence.
         (d)   On properties in areas zoned for commercial use.
         (e)   In designated Renaissance or Historic Districts in the public
right-of-way, but without increasing the height or size of the profile of the
support structure, and only if camouflaged or stealthed to the satisfaction of
the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
         (f)   In areas zoned for residential use, in the public right-of-way,
but without increasing the height of the size or dimensions of the support
structure, and only if camouflaged or stealthed to the satisfaction of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (4)   If the applicant proposes and commits to locate on town-owned
property or structures, the town reserves to right to waive the town
application fee that would otherwise be paid to the town.
      (5)   If the proposed site is not proposed for the highest priority
listed above, then a detailed narrative and technical explanation shall be
provided as regards why a site from all higher priority designations was not
selected. The person seeking such an exception must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Planning & Community Development Director and the Zoning
Board of Adjustment the reason or reasons why a special use permit or
administrative approval should be granted for the proposed facility.
      (6)   Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary, the town may approve
any site located within an area in the above list of priorities, provided that
the town finds that the proposed site is in the best interest of the health,
safety and welfare of the town and its inhabitants and will not have a
deleterious effect on the nature and character of the community and
neighborhood. The town may also direct that the proposed location be changed to
another location that is more in keeping with the goals of this section and the
public interest as determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment and that serves
the intent of the applicant.
      (7)   Notwithstanding that a potential site may be situated in an area of
highest priority or highest available priority, the town may disapprove an
application for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Conflict with safety and safety-related codes and requirements,
including but not limited to setback and fall zone requirements;
         (b)   Non-compliance with zoning or land use regulations;
         (c)   The placement and location of a facility or complex would create
an unacceptable risk, or the reasonable possibility of such, to any person or
entity for physical or financial damage, or of trespass on private property;
         (d)   The placement and location of a facility or complex would result
in a conflict with, compromise in or change in the nature or character of the
adjacent and surrounding area, and expressly including but not limited to loss
in value as measured over the 12 months preceding the application having been
filed;
         (e)   Conflicts with the provisions of zoning or land use regulations;
or
         (f)   failure to submit a complete application within 60 days after
proper notice and opportunity to make the application complete.
      (8)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, for good
cause shown such as the ability to utilize one or more shorter, smaller or less
intrusive facilities elsewhere and still accomplish the primary service
objective, the town may require the relocation of a proposed site if relocation
could result in a less intrusive facility or complex singly or in combination
with other locations, including allowing for the fact that relocating the site
chosen by the applicant may require the use of more than one facility to
provide substantially the same service.
   (M)   Type and height of towers.
      (1)   No new towers of a lattice or guyed type shall be permitted, unless
relief is otherwise expressly granted.
      (2)   Except in the public rights-of-way and in residentially zoned
areas, the maximum permitted total height of a new tower or other proposed
support structure, shall be 100 feet above pre-construction ground level,
unless it can be shown by clear and convincing verifiable technical evidence
from a carrier who has committed to use the tower that such height would
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of service in the
intended service area within the town. The maximum permitted height is
permissive and is expressly not as-of-right.
      (3)   As the policy decision has been made that more facilities of a
shorter and less intrusive height is in the public interest, as opposed to
fewer but taller support structures, spacing or the distance between facilities
shall be such that the service may be provided without exceeding the maximum
permitted height.
      (4)   If proposed to be taller than the maximum permitted height, the
applicant for a new tower or support structure shall submit clear and
convincing technical evidence by a carrier or wireless service provider that
has committed to use the tower or other support structure justifying the total
height requested. If the applicant chooses to provide evidence in the form of
propagation studies, to enable verification of the need for the requested
height such must include all modeling information and support data used to
produce the studies at the requested height and at a minimum of ten feet lower.
The tower or its designee will provide the form that shall be used for
providing the modeling information.
      (5)   The town reserves the right to require a drive test to be conducted
under the supervision of the town or its designee to verify the technical need
for what is requested.
      (6)   At no time shall a tower or other support structure be of a height
that requires lighting by the FAA.
      (7)   Towers shall be structurally designed to support a minimum of four
carriers using functionally equivalent equipment to that used by the first
carrier attaching to a tower or other support structure, so that the height can
be increased if needed.
      (8)   New structures within rights-of-ways – required design
characteristics.
         (a)   Wireless installations shall be consistent throughout the town
limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ);
         (b)   Wireless installations shall be on non-conductive poles;
         (c)   All antennas shall be indiscernible by an average person from
250 feet away;
         (d)   Wireless installations shall utilize a “concealed” design,
including all cabling being inside a hollow pole;
         (e)   All radios, network equipment and batteries will be enclosed in
a pedestal cabinet near the pole, or in a pole-mounted cabinet or under a pole-
mounted shroud;
         (f)   Cabinets should be consistent in size and no larger than
standard DOT streetlight signal cabinets;
         (g)   Unless proven unfeasible by clear and convincing evidence, in
lieu of installing new poles, any wireless installation in the public right-of-
way shall replace a pre-existing distribution pole, secondary pole or
streetlight;
         (h)   Wireless installations shall be on poles that meet or exceed
current National Electrical Safety Code standards and wind and ice loading
requirements of TIA ANSI 222-G;
         (i)   Any new poles installed shall be “green” and not leach any
volatile organic compounds or toxic materials into the ground; and
         (j)   To avoid unsightly rust and corrosion, any new pole installed
shall be certified to be rust resistant and not reinforced concrete.
   (N)   Visibility and aesthetics.
      (1)   No tower or support structure that is not a building and is
constructed after the effective date of this section shall not be tall enough
to require lighting by the FAA.
      (2)   Stealth: All new facilities, including but not limited to towers,
shall utilize stealth or camouflage siting techniques that are acceptable to
the town, unless such can be shown to be either commercially or technologically
impracticable.
      (3)   Finish/color: Towers shall be galvanized and/or painted with a
rust-preventive paint of an appropriate color to harmonize with the
surroundings and shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of
this section.
      (4)   Lighting: Notwithstanding the prohibition of lighting, in the event
lighting is subsequently required by the FAA, the applicant shall provide a
detailed plan for sufficient lighting of as unobtrusive and inoffensive an
effect as is permissible under state and federal regulations. For any facility
or complex for which lighting is required under the FAA’s regulations, or that
for any reason has lights attached, all such lighting shall be affixed with
technology that enables the light to be seen as intended from the air, but that
prevents the ground scatter effect so that it is not able to be seen from the
ground to a height of at least 20 degrees vertical for a distance of at least
one mile in a level terrain situation. Such device shall be compliant with or
not expressly in conflict with FAA regulations. A physical shield may be used,
as long as the light is able to be seen from the air, as intended by the FAA.
      (5)   Retrofitting: In the event a tower or other support structure that
is lighted as of the effective date of this section is modified, at the time of
the first modification of the facility the town reserves the right to require
that the tower be retrofitted so as to comply with the lighting requirements of
division (N)(4) of this section or be reduced to a height that does not require
lighting.
      (6)   Flush mounting: Except for omni-directional antennas, all new or
replacement antennas, shall be flush-mounted or as close to flush-mounted on
the support structure as is functionally possible, unless it can be
demonstrated by clear and convincing technical evidence that such has the
effect of prohibiting the provision of service to the intended service area,
alone or in combination with another site(s), or unless the applicant can prove
that it is technologically impracticable.
      (7)   Placement on building: If attached to a building, all antennas
shall be mounted on the fascia of the building and camouflaged so as to match
the color and, if possible, the texture of the building, or in a manner so as
to make the antennas as visually innocuous and undetectable as is reasonably
possible given the facts and circumstances involved.
   (O)   Security. All facilities shall be located, fenced or otherwise secured
in a manner that prevents unauthorized access. Specifically:
      (1)   All facilities, including antennas, towers and other supporting
structures, such as guy anchor points and guy wires, shall be made inaccessible
to unauthorized individuals and shall be constructed or shielded in such a
manner that they cannot be easily climbed or collided with and shall expressly
include removing the climbing steps for the first ten feet from the ground on a
monopole; and
      (2)   Transmitters and telecommunications control points shall be
installed so that they are readily accessible only to persons authorized to
operate or service them.
   (P)   Signage. Facilities shall contain a sign no larger than four square
feet and no smaller than two square feet in order to provide adequate warning
to persons in the immediate area of the presence of RF radiation. A sign of the
same size is also to be installed bearing the name(s) of the owner(s) and
operator(s) of the antenna(s) as well as emergency phone number(s). The sign
shall be on the equipment shelter or cabinet of the applicant and must be
visible from the access point of the facility or complex and must identify the
equipment owner of the shelter or cabinet. On tower sites, an FCC registration
sign, as applicable, is also to be present. The signs shall not be lighted,
unless applicable law, rule or regulation requires lighting. No other signage,
including advertising, shall be permitted.
   (Q)   Setback and fall zone.
      (1)   All proposed towers and any other proposed Wireless support
structures shall be set back from abutting parcels, recorded rights-of-way and
roads and streets by the greater of the following distances:
         (a)   A distance equal to the height of the proposed Tower or support
structure plus 10% of the height of the tower or other structure, otherwise
known as the fall zone; or
         (b)   The existing setback requirement of the underlying zoning
district, whichever is greater.
      (2)   For any facility located within a fenced compound, any accessory
structure shall be located within the fenced compound as approved in the
special use permit and so as to comply with the applicable minimum setback
requirements for the property on which it is situated. The fall zone or setback
shall be measured from the nearest portion of the tower to the nearest portion
of the right-of-way of any public road or thoroughfare and any occupied
building or domicile, as well as any property boundary lines.
      (3)   The nearest portion of any private access road leading to a
facility shall be no less than ten feet from the nearest property line.
      (4)   There shall be no development of habitable buildings within the
setback area or fall zone.
   (R)   Retention of expert assistance cost to be borne by applicant.
      (1)   To prevent the taxpayers from having to bear the cost related to
the issue of permitting and regulating a commercially used wireless
telecommunications facilities or negotiating agreements to lease or amend or
modify a lease for any town-owned property or structure, an applicant shall pay
to the town fees as set forth in the town’s Fee Schedule. The fees are intended
to cover all reasonable costs of the expert assistance needed by the town in
connection with the review of any application, including both the technical and
non-technical review, and the permitting, inspection, construction or
modification requested, any application pre-approval evaluation requested by
the applicant and any lease negotiations. The payment of the expert assistance
fees to the town shall precede any work being done that is related to the
intended application or lease, including a pre-application meeting or site
visit.
      (2)   The town may hire any consultant of its choice to assist the town
in reviewing and evaluating applications and negotiating leases, provided the
consultant has at least five years of experience working exclusively for the
public sector regulating towers and wireless facilities and negotiating leases,
and has not had a recommendation successfully legally challenged.
      (3)   The total amount of the funds needed for expert assistance as set
forth in the town’s Fee schedule may vary with the scope and complexity of the
application, the completeness of the Application and other information as may
be needed to Complete the necessary technical and non-technical reviews,
analysis and inspection of any construction or modification or the amount of
time spent responding to an applicant’s arguments as regards its application or
the requirements of this section.
      (4)   For a new tower or support structure or a substantial modification,
to prevent taxpayer subsidization the expert assistance fee shall be no less
than $8,000.
      (5)   The town will maintain an accounting record for the expenditure of
all such funds.
      (6)   If an application is amended, or a waiver or relief is requested
from any regulations at any time prior to the grant of the certificate of
completion required under this section, the town reserves the right to require
additional payment for the review and analysis equal to, but not exceeding, the
cost created for the town by the applicant or its application. such amount
shall be paid to the town prior to the issuance of the special use permit or
administrative approval or the certificate of completion, whichever is
procedurally needed next.
   (S)   Procedural requirements for a granting a special use permit.
      (1)   When a special use permit is requested, the following procedures
shall apply.
      (2)   When deemed necessary or otherwise in the public interest, as part
of the process for any new towers or telecommunications support structure, the
town may require a neighborhood meeting with area residents, the applicant, a
representative(s) from the town staff and the town’s consultant to discuss the
proposed facility and the effects of such.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall schedule any required public
hearing(s) once it finds the application is complete and there are no issues of
non-compliance or conflict with applicable law, rule or regulation. The town
shall not be required to set a date for a hearing if the application is not
complete or if there are unresolved issues of non-compliance by the applicant
or a party to the application. The town may, at any stage prior to issuing a
special use permit or administrative approval, require such additional
information as it deems necessary and that is not expressly prohibited from
being required by applicable law as relates to the issue of the siting,
construction or modification of or at a wireless telecommunications facility or
complex.
      (4)   Upon Zoning Board of Adjustment approval, a special use permit
shall be issued for a new tower or substantially modified wireless support
structure or substantial co-location. Notwithstanding the preceding, the
building permit for a new tower or other proposed support structure shall not
be issued until an applicant has provided clear and convincing substantiating
documentation governing the placement of the first antenna array of a carrier
who has committed to use the structure prior to its construction and that
carrier has been properly permitted under this section.
   (T)   Action on an application.
      (1)   The town will undertake, or have undertaken, a review of an
application pursuant to this section in a timely fashion, consistent with its
responsibilities and applicable law, and shall act within the time required by
applicable law.
      (2)   The town may refer any application or part thereof to any advisory
committee or consultant for a non-binding recommendation.
      (3)   (a)   Either after the public hearing if a hearing is required, or
after administrative review for an eligible facility application, and after
formally considering the application, the town may:
            1.   Approve;
            2.   Approve with conditions; or
            3.   Deny for cause a permit or administrative approval.
         (b)   The decision shall be in writing and shall be supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record, which record may be the
minutes of any or all official meetings. Throughout the application and
permitting process, the burden of proof for compliance with this section or the
need for a waiver or relief shall always be upon the applicant.
      (4)   An applicant shall not be permitted to refuse to provide
information needed to establish the substantial written record required under
federal law and applicable case law. Refusal for more than 60 days without
agreement by the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall result in denial of the
application or the application shall be deemed abandoned.
      (5)   Approval notification: If the town approves the special use permit
or administrative approval, then the applicant shall be notified of the
approval of its application, including any conditions, within 30 calendar days
of the town’s action. The special use permit or administrative authorization
shall be issued within 30 days after such approval.
      (6)   Denial notification: If denied, the applicant shall be notified of
the denial of its application at the Zoning Board of Adjustment Meeting, and in
writing within 30 calendar days of the Zoning Board of Adjustment’s action,
which notice shall contain the reason or reasons for the denial.
   (U)   Transfer or assignment. The extent and parameters of a special use
permit or administrative authorization for a facility or complex shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Such special use permit or administrative authorization shall not
be assigned, transferred or conveyed without the express prior written
notification to the town, such notice to be not fewer than 30 business days
prior to the intended assignment, transfer or conveyance.
      (2)   A transfer, assignment or other conveyance of the special use
permit or administrative authorization shall require the written commitment of
the proposed new holder of the special use permit or administrative
authorization to abide by all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including
but not limited to this section.
   (V)   Violations.
      (1)   Following written notice of violation and an opportunity to cure,
any permit or administrative approval granted under this section may be
revoked, canceled, or terminated for a violation of the uncured conditions and
provisions of the special use permit or other applicable law, rule, regulation
or order, and if warranted the payment of a fine(s) as is permissible.
      (2)   If not cured within the time frame set forth in the notice of
violation, a hearing shall be held upon 30 days prior notice to the applicant
citing the violation and the date, time and place of the hearing, which shall
be provided by registered mail to the last known address of the holder of the
special use permit.
      (3)   Following the original notice and an opportunity to cure,
subsequent or repeated violations of a substantially similar nature shall not
require an opportunity to cure prior to the imposition of fines or penalties.
   (W)   Removal and performance security.
      (1)   Removal and performance: The applicant and the owner of record of
any proposed new tower or other support structure or complex shall, at its sole
cost and expense, be required to execute and file with the town a bond or other
form of security that is acceptable to the town as to the type of security and
the form and manner of execution, in an amount of at least $75,000 for a tower
or other support structure and with such sureties as are deemed adequate by the
town to assure the faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this
section and the conditions of any special use permit issued pursuant to this
section. The full amount of the bond or security shall remain in full force and
effect throughout the term of the special use permit and/or, if abandoned,
until any necessary site restoration is completed to restore the site to a
condition comparable to that, which existed prior to the issuance of the
original special use permit. The amount of the bond is, in part, determined by
the current cost of demolition, removal and site restoration multiplied by the
compounding or cumulative effect of a 3% annual cost escalator over a 30-year
projected useful life of the structure.
      (2)   Performance: The owner of any equipment attached to a support
structure or located in a complex shall be required to execute and file with
the town a performance bond or other form of performance security that is
acceptable to the town as to the type of security and the form and manner of
execution, in the amount of $25,000.
   (X)   Reservation of authority to inspect wireless telecommunications
facilities.
      (1)   In order to verify that the holder of a special use permit for a
facility or complex and any and all lessees, renters, and/or licensees of
wireless telecommunications facilities, places, constructs and maintains such
facility in accordance with all applicable technical, safety, fire, building
codes, zoning codes, laws, ordinances and regulations and conditions of any
permit granted under this section, the town or its designee shall have the
right to inspect all facets of said permit holder’s, renter’s, lessee’s or
licensee’s placement, construction, modification and maintenance of such
facilities, including, but not limited to, towers, antennas, buildings and
equipment and connections contained therein, or other structures constructed or
located on the permitted site.
      (2)   Refusal to allow or grant access to the town’s representative upon
reasonable notice shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (Y)   Liability insurance.
      (1)   A holder of a special use permit for a wireless telecommunications
support structure shall secure and at all times maintain public liability
insurance for personal injuries, death and property damage, and umbrella
insurance coverage, for the duration of the special use permit in amounts as
set forth below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death
and property damage: $2,000,000 per occurrence/$5,000,000 aggregate;
         (b)   Automobile coverage: $1,000,000.00 per occurrence/ $3,000,000
aggregate;
         (c)   A $5,000,000 umbrella coverage; and
         (d)   Workers compensation and disability: Statutory amounts.
      (2)   For a facility or complex located on town property, the commercial
general liability insurance policy shall specifically name the town and its
officers, boards, employees, committee members, attorneys, agents and
consultants as additional insureds.
      (3)   The insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or
representative of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and
with an AM Best’s rating of at least A.
      (4)   The insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to furnish the town with at least 30 days prior written
notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
      (5)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered
to the town at least 15 days prior to the expiration of the insurance that such
policies are intended to renew or replace.
      (6)   Before construction of a permitted wireless telecommunications
facility or complex is initiated, but in no case later than 15 days prior to
the grant of the building permit, the holder of the special use permit shall
deliver to the town a copy of each of the policies or certificates representing
the required insurance in the required amounts.
      (7)   A certificate of insurance that states that it is for informational
purposes only and does not confer rights upon the town shall not be deemed to
comply with this section.
   (Z)   Indemnification.
      (1)   Any application for wireless telecommunication facilities that is
proposed to be located on town property shall contain a signed statement fully
and completely indemnifying the town. Such provision shall require the
applicant, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to at all times defend,
indemnify, protect, save, hold harmless and exempt the town and its officers,
boards, employees, committee members, attorneys, agents, and consultants from
any and all penalties, damages, costs, or charges arising out of any and all
claims, suits, demands, causes of action, or award of damages, whether
compensatory or punitive, or expenses arising there from, either at law or in
equity, which might arise out of, or are caused by, the placement,
construction, erection, modification, location, products performance, use,
operation, maintenance, repair, installation, replacement, removal, or
restoration of said facility or complex. Notwithstanding the preceding, there
shall be no claim of indemnification with respect to any act attributable to
the negligent or intentional acts or omissions of the town, or its servants or
agents. With respect to the penalties, damages or charges referenced herein,
reasonable attorneys’ fees, consultants’ fees, and expert witness fees are
included in those costs that are recoverable by the town.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the requirements noted in division (Z)(1) of this
section, an indemnification provision will not be required in those instances
where the town itself, or an agency or department of the town, applies for and
secures a special use permit for a wireless telecommunications facility or
complex.
   (AA)   Fines.
      (1)   In the event of a violation of this section, or any special use
permit or administrative approval issued pursuant to this section, the town may
impose and collect, and the holder of the special use permit or administrative
approval for a wireless telecommunications facility or complex shall pay to the
town, fines or penalties as set allowed by state law or as otherwise
established by the town.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything in this section, the holder of the special
use permit or administrative approval for a facility or complex may not use the
payment of fines, liquidated damages or other penalties, to evade or avoid
compliance with this section or any section of this chapter. An attempt to do
so shall subject the holder of the special use permit to termination and
revocation of the special use permit in addition to the payment of fines. The
town may also seek injunctive relief to prevent the continued violation of this
section without limiting other remedies available to the town.
   (BB)   Default and/or revocation. If a support structure, facility or
complex is repaired, rebuilt, placed, moved, relocated, modified or maintained
in a way that is inconsistent or not in compliance with the provisions of this
section or of the special use permit or administrative approval, then the town
shall notify the holder of the special use permit or administrative approval in
writing of such violation. A permit or administrative approval holder found to
be in violation may be considered in default and subject to fines as permitted
under applicable state law, and if a violation is not corrected to the
satisfaction of the town in a reasonable period of time the special use permit
or administrative approval shall be subject to revocation.
   (CC)   Moving or removal of co-located facilities and equipment.
      (1)   If attached to an existing tower or other support structure, unless
the Zoning Board of Adjustment deems doing so to be in the public interest, it
shall be impermissible for a wireless service provider’s or carrier’s equipment
to be relocated from one structure to another without clear and convincing
evidence that not to do so would, for technical reasons, prohibit or serve to
prohibit the provision of service in the service area served by the existing
wireless facility.
      (2)   (a)   If the lease for the existing attachment and use expires and
is not renewed, thereby forcing the facility to be moved, such move shall be
allowed upon:
            1.   The provision of clear and convincing evidence satisfactory to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the need to move or relocate the facility;
and
            2.   Clear and convincing evidence satisfactory to the Zoning Board
of Adjustment of the lack of impact on the neighborhood or area of the intended
new location.
         (b)   Cancellation or abandonment of a lease by a lessee or refusal to
agree to terms of a lease that are not commercially impracticable shall not be
deemed a permissible reason for relocating.
      (3)   The owner of any facility or complex shall be required to provide a
minimum of 30 days written notice to the Town Clerk prior to abandoning any
facility or complex.
      (4)   Under the following circumstances, the town may determine that the
health, safety, and welfare interests of the town warrant and require the
removal of facilities:
         (a)   A facility or complex that has been abandoned (i.e. not used as
wireless telecommunications facilities) for a period exceeding 90 consecutive
days or a cumulative total of 180 non- consecutive days in any 365-day period,
except for periods caused by force majeure or Acts of God, in which case,
repair or removal shall be completed within 90 days of abandonment;
         (b)   A support structure, facility or complex falls into such a state
of disrepair that it creates a health or safety hazard or is deemed an
attractive nuisance or a visual blight;
         (c)   A support structure or facility or complex has been located,
constructed, or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner not authorized
by, the required special use permit, or administrative approval, and the
special use permit or administrative approval may be revoked.
      (5)   If the town makes a determination as noted in division (CC)(4)(b)
or (CC)(4)(c) of this section, then the town shall notify the holder of the
permit or administrative approval for the facility or complex that said
facility or complex is to be removed.
      (6)   The holder of the special use permit or administrative approval, or
its successors or assigns, shall dismantle and remove the facility or complex
and all associated structures and equipment from the site and restore the site
to as close to its original condition as is reasonably possible, such
restoration being limited only by physical or commercial Impracticability.
Restoration shall be completed within 90 days of the receipt of a written
notice from the town. However, if the owner of the property upon which the
facility or complex is located wishes to retain any access roadway to the
facility or complex, the owner may do so with the approval of the town.
      (7)   If a facility or complex has not been removed, or substantial
progress has not been made to remove the facility or complex, within 90 days
after the permit holder has received notice, then the town may order officials
or representatives of the town to remove or have removed the facility or
complex at the sole expense of the owner or special use permit holder.
      (8)   If the town removes, or causes a facility to be removed, and the
owner of the facility or complex does not claim and remove it from the site to
a lawful location within ten days, the town may take steps to declare the
facility or complex abandoned, and sell all remaining equipment and materials.
      (9)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the town
may approve a temporary use permit/agreement for the facility or complex, but
for no more than 90 days duration, during which time a suitable plan for
removal, conversion, or re-location of the affected facility or complex shall
be developed by the holder of the special use permit, subject to the approval
of the town, and an agreement to such plan shall be executed by the holder of
the special use permit or administrative approval and the town. if such a plan
is not developed, approved and executed within the 90-day time period, then the
town may take possession and dispose of the affected facility or complex in the
manner provided in this section and may utilize the bond in division (W) of
this section.
   (DD)   RF emissions.
      (1)   As may be deemed appropriate from time to time, to assure the
protection of the public health and safety, the town expressly reserves the
right under its police powers to require that a user of a facility or complex
or the owner of the facility or complex, verify compliance with the FCC's
regulations regarding cumulative RF emissions at the site under the observation
of a qualified staff member or the town’s consultant, and that all users of the
facility or complex cooperate with the party responsible for such testing or
verification. Failure to cooperate shall be deemed a violation of this section
and subject the non-cooperating party to all applicable and permissible fines
and penalties.
      (2)   In the event the town deems it necessary to determine compliance
with the FCC’s Maximum Permitted Exposure (MPE) rules, and in lieu of the
procedure contained in division (DD)(1) of this section, the town expressly
reserves the right to request the involvement of the FCC and/or OSHA to
determine or verify compliance with federal standards and guidelines that the
town, itself, may be prohibited from determining.
      (3)   With respect to support structures other than towers, if any
section or portion of the structure attached to or to be attached to is not in
compliance with the FCC’s regulations regarding RF radiation, that section or
portion must be barricaded with a suitable barrier to discourage approaching
into the area in excess of the FCC’s regulations, and be marked off with
brightly colored plastic chain or striped warning tape, as appropriate, as well
as placing RF Radiation signs as needed and appropriate to warn individuals of
the potential danger. As deemed warranted by the town at any time, the right of
the town is expressly reserved to do itself, or order done, an onsite RF
emissions survey.
   (EE)   Relief.
      (1)   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any aspect
or requirement of this section shall address and identify such at the pre-
application meeting. The relief or exemption must be contained in the submitted
application for either a special use permit or administrative approval, or in
the case of an existing or previously granted special use permit or
administrative approval, a request for modification of the facility or complex
and/or equipment. Such relief may be temporary or permanent, partial or
complete.
      (2)   The burden of proving the need for the requested relief, waiver or
exemption shall be solely on the applicant to prove.
      (3)   The applicant shall bear all costs of the town in considering the
request and the relief, waiver or exemption.
      (4)   No relief or exemption shall be approved unless the applicant
demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted, the relief,
waiver or exemption will have no significant effects on the health, safety and
welfare of the town, its residents, guests and/or other service providers.
   (FF)   Adherence to state and/or federal rules and regulations.
      (1)   To the extent that the holder of a special use permit or
administrative approval for a wireless telecommunications facility or complex
has not received relief, or is otherwise exempt, from appropriate state and/or
federal agency rules or regulations, then the holder of such a special use
permit shall adhere to, and comply with, all applicable rules, regulations,
standards, and provisions of any state or federal agency, including, but not
limited to, the FAA and the FCC. Specifically included in this requirement are
any rules and regulations regarding height, lighting, security, electrical and
RF emission standards.
      (2)   To the extent that applicable rules, regulations, standards, and
provisions of any state or federal agency, including but not limited to, the
FAA and the FCC, and specifically including any rules and regulations regarding
height, lighting, and security are changed and/or are modified during the
duration of a special use permit or administrative approval for wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the holder of such a special use permit or
administrative approval shall conform the permitted facility or complex to the
applicable changed and/or modified rule, regulation, standard, or provision
within a maximum of 24 months of the effective date of the applicable changed
and/or modified rule, regulation, standard, or provision, or sooner as may be
required by the issuing entity.
   (GG)   Conflict with other laws. Where this section differs or conflicts
with other local laws, rules and regulations, unless the right to do so is
preempted or prohibited by the town, state or federal government, the more
stringent shall apply.
   (HH)   Effective date. This section shall be effective immediately upon
passage, pursuant to applicable legal and procedural requirements.
   (II)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to applicable authority
granted by the state and federal government.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.529 BREWERIES, BREWPUBS, DISTILLERIES, MICROBREWERIES, AND TAP OR TASTING
ROOMS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   A special use permit is required for microbreweries, breweries, and
distilleries located within 250 feet of a residential use or district.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from the view of adjacent
streets and adjoining properties.
      (3)   Outdoor seating and event areas shall be screened from residential
uses and districts.
      (4)   Lighting for outdoor areas shall be designed to prevent glare onto
adjacent parcels.
      (5)   Drive-through facilities shall not be permitted.
      (6)   The owner must demonstrate the operation will not violate
wastewater discharge and pollution requirements, including emissions, odor, and
noise, per federal, state, and local regulations.
      (7)   The owner must secure all applicable federal, state, and local
permits.
   (B)   B1 Central Business and B2 General Business Districts.
      (1)   In the B1 – Central Business District, shipping for distribution
and receiving stock and supplies is prohibited between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   In the B1 – Central Business District, the front of the building at
street level shall remain open and visible from the sidewalk with a view of the
activities inside.
      (3)   In the B1 – Central Business District, one or more accessory uses,
such as a tasting room, taproom, restaurant, retail, demonstration area, or
training facility, shall be open and accessible to the public. The accessory
use shall account for at least 10% of the gross floor area.
      (4)   All operations and storage of materials used in the manufacturing,
processing, or distribution of goods shall be located within a building.
      (5)   All loading and unloading facilities shall be screened from
adjoining parcels, located in service alleys, or at the rear of the building,
and shall be located off the street.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.530 STORAGE SERVICES.
   (A)   Secondary use. Storage services will only be permitted within the B1 –
Central Business District in a structure in which the primary store front is
used exclusively for commercial use.
   (B)   Parking. Storage services will only be permitted as a secondary use
within the B1 – Central Business District if it can provide private, off-street
parking suitable for loading and unloading in accordance with this chapter.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.531 ROOMING AND BOARDING HOUSES.
   (A)   Quantity and duration. Rooming and boarding houses must not provide
lodging for more than 12 persons. The minimum rental period must not be less
than one week.
   (B)   Maintenance and sanitation. The operator of a rooming house shall be
responsible for the maintenance and sanitation of the premises.
   (C)   Space requirements. Every room shall contain at least 70 square feet
of floor space for individual occupants. Lodging units occupied by more than
one individual must contain at least 50 square feet of floor space per
occupant.
   (D)   Parking. At least one parking space per rented available occupancy
shall be required. Reference division (C) of this section for occupancy
determination.
   (E)   Lavatory requirements. At least one water closet, lavatory basin, and
bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and
in good working condition, shall be supplied for each four occupants within a
rooming house where facilities are shared.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 156.601 AIRPORT OVERLAY.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to restrain influences which
are adverse to the property and safe conduct of airport operations in the
vicinity of Wilkes County Airport, to prevent creation of conditions hazardous
to aircraft operation, to prevent conflict with land development which may
result in loss of life and property, and to encourage development that is
compatible with airport use characteristics within the intent and purpose of
zoning.
   (B)   Airport height limitation zones. In order to carry out the provisions
of this section, there are hereby created and established certain zones which
include all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional
surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the
airport. Such zones are shown on the Official Zoning Map. An area located in
more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with
the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby
established as subclassifications of the Airport Overlay District and are
defined as follows:
      (1)   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (AO-A1). The inner edge
of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is
1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
16,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface.
Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Runway Larger than Utility Visual Approach Surface (AO-A2). The
inner edge of this surface begins at and corresponds with the width of the
primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. This surface rises uniformly at a 20:
1 slope to a width of 1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from
the primary surface along the extended runway centerline.
      (3)   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum as Low as ¾
Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone (AO-A3). The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet at a
horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (4)   Transitional Zone (AO-T). The transitional zones are the areas
beneath the transitional surfaces.
      (5)   Horizontal Zone (AO-H). The horizontal zone is established by
swinging arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
      (6)   Conical Zone (AO-C). The conical zone is established as the area
that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward
therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
   (C)   Airport environs height limitations. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no
tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created under this section to a
height in excess of the applicable height herein established for such zone.
Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones
in question as follows:
      (1)   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (AO-A1). Slopes 50 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally
for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
      (2)   Runway Larger than Utility Visual Approach Surface (AO-A2). The
inner edge of this surface begins at and corresponds with the width of the
primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. This surface rises uniformly at a 20:
1 slope to a width of 1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from
the primary surface along the extended runway centerline.
      (3)   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum as Low as ¾
Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone (AO-A3). Slopes 34 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
      (4)   Transitional Zone (AO-T). Slopes seven feet outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above
the airport elevation which is 1,301 feet above mean sea level. In addition to
the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical
zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach
surface and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90 degree
angles to the extended runway centerline from the edge of the approach surface.
      (5)   Horizontal Zone (AO-H). Established at a height of 150 feet above
the airport elevation or an elevation of 1,451 feet above mean sea level.
      (6)   Conical Zone (AO-C). Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the
airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport
elevation, or an elevation of 1,651 feet above mean sea level.
      (7)   Expected height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the erection, alteration, or maintenance of any
structure or growth of any tree at or to a height which is below the
limitations set forth herein.
   (D)   Regulation related to sanitary landfill location. Due to the increased
attraction of birds in the vicinity of sanitary landfills and the potential
hazards which birds create to aircraft operations, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   No sanitary landfill shall be located within 10,000 feet from a
runway of any airport.
      (2)   Sanitary landfills which are proposed to be located further than
10,000 feet from a runway of any airport but within the conical surface will be
reviewed on a case by case basis by the Town Council, which may in turn consult
with the FAA. If, in the opinion of the Town Board or the FAA, the proposed
landfill poses a threat to safe aircraft operations, then the landfill shall
not be allowed in the proposed location.
   (E)   Use restriction. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
no use may be made of land or water within any zone established hereunder in
such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for
pilots to distinguish between Airport lights and others, result in glare in the
eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or
interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to
use the airport.
   (F)   Legal nonconformities. The owner of any existing nonconforming
structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and
maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by
the town to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall
be installed, operated, and maintained at the town's expense.
   (G)   Permits and variances.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued with respect to any use within this
overlay district unless said use complies with all of the requirements of this
section provided, however, that:
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any use or structure except in
cases where, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such
use or structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such
zones;
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, no
permit shall be required for any use or structure except in cases where such
use or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
approach zones;
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any use or structure except when such use or structure, because of terrain,
land contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones; and
         (d)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree, in excess of any of the height limits
established in §
156.603 Gateway Overlay.
      (2)   Any application for a variance with respect to any use within this
overlay district shall be accompanied by a written determination from the
Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the
operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable
airspace and the airport. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly
found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result
in unnecessary hardship and relief granted will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial
justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this section.
Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this section
may be considered by the Zoning Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the airport manager and the Wilkes County
Airport Board for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the
airport manager and/or the Airport Board does not respond to the application
within 30 days after receipt, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may act on its own
to grant or deny said application.
      (3)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
section, and is reasonable under the circumstances, be so conditioned as to
require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and
maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary.
If deemed proper by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, this condition may be
modified to require the owner to permit the Town of Wilkesboro, at its own
expense, to install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.602 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION OVERLAY.
   (A)   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, and objectives.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of North
Carolina has delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Therefore, the Town Council of Wilkesboro, North Carolina, does ordain as
follows:
      (2)   Findings of fact.
         (a)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Wilkesboro are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
         (b)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
      (3)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
         (a)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging
increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
         (b)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
         (c)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
         (d)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development
that may increase erosion or flood damage; and
         (e)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
      (4)   Objectives. The objectives of this section are to:
         (a)   Protect human life, safety, health and general welfare;
         (b)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
         (c)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         (d)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
         (e)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and
bridges) that are located in flood prone areas;
         (f)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas; and
         (g)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this section shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have
in common usage and to give this section its most reasonable application.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
      ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). an extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this section.
      AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community's FIRM with
base flood depths determined to be from one to three feet. These areas are
located where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be
evident.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the FIS. When the BFE has not been
provided in a SFHA, it may be obtained from engineering studies available from
a federal, state, or other source using FEMA approved engineering
methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the "Freeboard", establishes
the "Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation".
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
      CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
      ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
      ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
      FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
      FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the SFHAs and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if
appropriate), flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FIS report includes
FIRMs and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if published.
      FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
      FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
FIRM that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
      FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
      FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this section, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This section and other sections of
this chapter, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
      FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The BFE plus the freeboard establishes the
"regulatory flood protection elevation".
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(9),
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the US Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a "Certified Local Government (CLG) Program"; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a "Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program". Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the
US Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department
of Natural and Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966 as amended.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this section.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle".
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that
of any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may
be established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
      MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this section, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum
(NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a
reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which
BFEs shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine
datum used.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
      NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the FIS report.
      POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM.
      PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before the effective date of the initial FIRM.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of
the structure is above ground.
      PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety
or health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within SFHAs
designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The BFE plus the "freeboard". In
SFHAs where BFEs have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE. In
SFHAs where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall be at least two
feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
section or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
      RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
      SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage,
collection, and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not
limited to vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any
place at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill,
or any other method.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in
division (C)(2) of this section.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
improvement".
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost  equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this section.
      VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in divisions (D) and (E) of this
section is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level,
of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
      WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to
all SFHAs within the jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions
(ETJs), of Wilkesboro and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose
governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
      (2)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas.
         (a)   The SFHAs are those identified under the cooperating technical
state (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in its FIS
and its accompanying FIRMs, for Wilkes County dated March 2, 2009, which are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this section.
         (b)   The initial FIRMs are as follows for the jurisdictional areas at
the initial date: Wilkes County Unincorporated Area, dated May 15, 1991.
      (3)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
section prior to the commencement of any development activities within SFHAs
determined in accordance with the provisions of division (C)(2) of this
section.
      (4)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
extended, converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance
with the terms of this section and other applicable regulations.
      (5)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This section is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this section and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
      (6)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
section, all provisions shall be:
         (a)   Considered as minimum requirements;
         (b)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
         (c)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
      (7)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural
causes. This section does not imply that land outside the SFHAs or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
section shall not create liability on the part of Wilkesboro or by any officer
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
section or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
      (8)   Penalties for violation. Violation of the provisions of this
section or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance
or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this section or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than
30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Wilkesboro from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer or his/her designee, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain
Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this section.
      (2)   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
         (a)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain
development permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any
development activities located within SFHAs. The following items shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development
permit:
            1.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
               a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
area of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility
systems, grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage
facilities, and other development;
               b.   The boundary of the SFHA as delineated on the FIRM or other
flood map as determined in division (C)(2) of this section, or a statement that
the entire lot is within the SFHA;
               c.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in division (C)(2)
of this section;
               d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s)
as determined in division (C)(2) of this section;
               e.   The BFE where provided as set forth in divisions (C)(2),
(D)(3), or (E)(4) of this section; and
               f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
            2.   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development
within a SFHA including but not limited to:
               a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
               b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be floodproofed; and
               c.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
proposed utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
            3.   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-
65) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
            4.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this section are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
               a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e.,
fill, solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open
foundation on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
               b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces on walls in accordance with division (E)(2)(d)3. of
this section when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30.
            5.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
            6.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located
and constructed to minimize flood damage.
            7.   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
            8.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
divisions (E)(2)(f) and (E)(2)(g) of this section are met.
            9.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation, when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not
shown on plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation.
         (b)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
            1.   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
            2.   The SFHA determination for the proposed development in
accordance with available data specified in division (C)(2) of this section;
            3.   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
            4.   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
            5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
            6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable; and
            7.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-
30.
         (c)   Certification requirements.
            1.   Elevation certificates. A final as-built elevation certificate
(FEMA Form 81-31) is required after construction is completed and prior to
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference level and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
            2.   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an
operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
            3.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-
30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with
the provisions of division (E)(2)(c)2. of this section.
            4.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description
of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional
engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the
flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
            5.   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (D)(2)(c)1. and (D)(2)(c)2.
of this section:
               a.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of division (E)
(2)(f)1. of this section;
               b.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of division (E)
(2)(g) of this section; and
               c.   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of division (E)(2)(h) of this section.
      (3)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within SFHAs to assure that the requirements of
this section have been satisfied.
         (b)   Review all proposed development within SFHAs to assure that all
necessary local, state and federal permits have been received.
         (c)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
         (d)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
maintained.
         (e)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of division (E)
(6) of this section are met.
         (f)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
division (D)(2)(c) of this section.
         (g)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of division (D)(2)(c) of this
section.
         (h)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of division (D)(2)(3) of
this section.
         (i)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure,
obtain certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of divisions (D)(2)(c) and (E)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (j)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the SFHAs, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this section.
         (k)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the
provisions of division (C)(2) of this section, obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any BFE data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data
available from a federal, state, or other source, including data developed
pursuant to division (E)(4)(b)2. of this section, in order to administer the
provisions of this section.
         (l)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment
area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of division (C)
(2) of this section, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data
or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source
in order to administer the provisions of this section.
         (m)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this section and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a), as amended.
         (n)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work
pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain
Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to
ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of this section
and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain
Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
         (o)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this section, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
         (p)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The
Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or
failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain
development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
         (q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the SFHAs within the
jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each member of
his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon presentation of
proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial
jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action.
         (r)   Follow through with corrective procedures of division (D)(4) of
this section.
         (s)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
         (t)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited
to, the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of division (C)(2) of this section, including
any revisions thereto including letters of map change issued by FEMA. Notify
state and FEMA of mapping needs.
         (u)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
      (4)   Corrective procedures.
         (a)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited
in such notification.
         (b)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the
owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action,
the Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified
or registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
            1.   That the building or property is in violation of the
floodplain management regulations;
            2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain
Administrator at a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the
date of the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in
person or by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the
matter; and
            3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
         (c)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held
pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall
find that the building or development is in violation of the flood damage
prevention ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner,
requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not
less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the
Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
         (d)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk
within ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an
appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
         (e)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished at the discretion of the court.
      (5)   Variance procedures.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment as established by Wilkesboro,
hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
         (c)   Variances may be issued for:
            1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
            2.   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in division (B) of this section, provided provisions of
divisions (D)(5)(i)2., (D)(5)(i)3., and (D)(5)(i)5. of this section have been
satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
            3.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the
requirements of this section.
         (d)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
divisions of this section, and:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under division (B) of this section as a functionally dependent
facility, where applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (e)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
         (f)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes
of this section, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
section.
         (g)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to
which the structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE
increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
         (h)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to FEMA and the State of North Carolina
upon request.
         (i)   Conditions for variances.
            1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
            2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway
or non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
            3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
            4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
            5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (j)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in SFHAs provided that all of the following
conditions are met:
            1.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
            2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the SFHA.
            3.   The reference level of any structure is elevated or
floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
            4.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
            5.   The Town of Wilkesboro has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its consideration to
grant a variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   (E)   Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
      (1)   General standards. In all SFHAs the following provisions are
required:
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement of the structure;
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
         (c)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
         (d)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches;
         (e)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         (f)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
         (g)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
         (h)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this section, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this section;
         (i)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this section and located totally or partially within the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no
additional encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this section;
         (j)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in division (D)(5)(j) of this
section. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a SFHA only if the structure or tank is
either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection
elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of division (D)(2)(c)
of this section;
         (k)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
         (l)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (m)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
         (n)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344;
         (o)   When a structure is partially located in a SFHA, the entire
structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and substantial
improvements; and
         (p)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in
a flood hazard risk zone with multiple BFEs, the provisions for the more
restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
      (2)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs where BFE data has been provided,
as set forth in divisions (C)(2) or (E)(4) of this section, the following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of division (E)(1) of this section,
are required:
         (a)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in division (B) of this
section.
         (b)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in division (B) of this
section. Structures located in A, AE, AO, and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed
to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with division (E)(7)(b) of this section. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing
standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided
to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in division (D)(2)(c) of this
section, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
         (c)   Manufactured homes.
            1.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so
that the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in division (B) of this
section.
            2.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
            3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet
the requirements of division (E)(2)(d) of this section.
            4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
         (d)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
            1.   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion of such enclosed area
shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms, except to enclose
storage areas;
            2.   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at
least up to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
            3.   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood openings
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
               b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least
one square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
               c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
               d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no
higher than one foot above the adjacent grade;
               e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
               f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
         (e)   Additions/improvements.
            1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
               a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure.
               b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
            2.   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
            3.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
               a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction.
               b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (f)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
            1.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
            2.   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
         (g)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
            1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
            2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
            3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
            4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
            5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location
outside the SFHA, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
         (h)   Accessory structures.
            1.   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the
like) are to be placed within a SFHA, the following criteria shall be met:
               a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
               b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
               c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood
damage potential;
               d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
               e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with the provisions of division (E)(1)(a) of this section;
               f.   All service facilities such as electrical shall be
installed in accordance with the provisions of division (E)(2)(d) of this
section; and
               g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (E)(2)(d)3. of this
section.
            2.   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet that satisfies the criteria outlined in division (E)(2)(h)1. of this
section does not require an elevation or floodproofing certificate. Elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all other accessory structures
in accordance with division (D)(2)(c) of this section.
      (3)   Reserved.
      (4)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood
elevations. Within the SFHAs designated as Approximate Zone A and established
in division (C)(2) of this section, where no BFE data has been provided by
FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of division (E)
(1) of this section, shall apply:
         (a)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge; and
         (b)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
            1.   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new
construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply
with all applicable provisions of this section and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2);
            2.   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a
federal, state, or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of divisions (E)(2) and (E)(6);
            3.   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with division (C)(2) of this section and utilized in
implementing this section; and
            4.   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
sources, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential)
to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in division
(B) of this section. All other applicable provisions of division (E)(2) of this
section shall also apply.
      (5)   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or nonencroachment areas. Along rivers and
streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available from another source
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a SFHA on
the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
         (a)   Standards of divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section; and
         (b)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is
designated, no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the community.
      (6)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as floodways
or non-encroachment areas are located within the SFHAs established in division
(C)(2) of this section. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in
addition to standards outlined in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section,
shall apply to all development within such areas:
         (a)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
            1.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
            2.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment;
         (b)   If division (E)(6)(a) of this section is satisfied, all
development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of this section; and
         (c)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
            1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of division (E)(2)
(c) of this section; and
            2.   The no encroachment standard of division (E)(6)(a) of this
section.
      (7)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO). Located within
the SFHAs established in division (C)(2) of this section, are areas designated
as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special flood hazards associated
with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel
does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate. In addition to divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section, all
new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following
requirements:
         (a)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the FIRM, in feet, plus a freeboard of two feet,
above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet above the highest
adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
         (b)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (E)(7)(a) of this
section so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with divisions (D)(2)(c) and
(E)(2)(b) of this section.
         (c)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (F)   Legal status provisions.
      (1)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance.
         (a)   This section in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of
the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted December 3,
1973, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact
and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and
may be enforced. The enactment of this section shall not affect any action,
suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance of Wilkesboro enacted on December 3, 1973, as amended,
which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
         (b)   The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for
Wilkes County is November 12, 2002.
      (2)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing
herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this section; provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this section.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.603 GATEWAY OVERLAY - RESERVED.
§ 156.604 HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The historical heritage of our town is one of our most valued
and important assets. The conservation and preservation of historic districts
and landmarks stabilize and increase property values in their areas and
strengthen the overall economy of the town. The purpose of establishing local
historic districts and landmarks is to encourage the restoration, preservation,
rehabilitation and conservation of historically, architecturally, and
archaeologically significant areas, structures, buildings, sites, objects and
their surroundings; and to review new construction design to ensure
compatibility with the character of the district; and to safeguard against any
potentially adverse influences which may cause the decline, decay, or total
destruction of these important assets. In addition, the preservation of
historic districts and landmarks provides for the education, pleasure and
enrichment of the residents of Wilkesboro and the state as a whole.
   (B)   Establishment and jurisdiction. Pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 9,
Part 4, there is hereby established a commission that shall be known as the
Wilkesboro Historic Preservation Commission. Its jurisdiction shall include the
Town of Wilkesboro planning and development regulation jurisdiction as shown on
the official zoning map. The Commission will consist of nine members appointed
by the governing board and will serve without compensation.
   (C)   Membership and organization.
      (1)   Tenure. Members shall be appointed for three-year staggered terms.
A member may be reappointed for additional consecutive terms. In the case of a
vacancy occurring during a term, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of such term.
      (2)   Qualifications. A majority of the members of the Commission shall
have demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history,
architecture, archaeology, or related fields; and all members shall reside
within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the Town of
Wilkesboro.
      (3)   Meetings. The Historic Preservation Commission shall establish a
meeting time, and shall meet at least monthly, unless there is not sufficient
business to warrant a meeting. All meetings of the Commission are subject to
the North Carolina Open Meetings Law (“Meetings of Public Bodies”, G.S. Ch.
143, Art. 33C [§§ 143-318.9 through 143-318.18], as amended).
      (4)   Rules of procedure. The Historic Preservation Commission shall
adopt and publish Rules of Procedure to govern the conduct of its business.
Commission members must take an oath of office before starting his or her
duties pursuant to G.S. § 160D-309. Commission members must abide by conflicts
of interest standards pursuant to G.S. § 160D-109.
      (5)   Meeting minutes. The Historic Preservation Commission shall keep
permanent minutes of all its meetings. The minutes shall record attendance of
its members, resolutions, findings, recommendations, and actions.
      (6)   Minor Works Committee. The Historic Preservation Committee
established the Minor Works Committee to review works of a minor nature
requiring a Certificate of Appropriateness. The committee consists of five
members: Commission Chair, Commission Vice Chair, Commission Member, Planning &
Community Development Director, and Town Planner.
   (D)   Commission powers. The general duties of the Historic Preservation
Commission are to promote, enhance, and preserve the character of the historic
overlay district and designated historic landmarks. The Commission shall
exercise the following powers as part of their duties:
      (1)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance;
      (2)   Recommend to the governing board areas to be designated by
ordinance as "Historic Districts" and individual structures, buildings, sites,
areas, or objects to be designated by ordinance as "Landmarks";
      (3)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included
interest, including options to purchase, to properties within established
districts or to any such properties designated as landmarks to hold, manage,
preserve, restore, and improve such properties, and to exchange or dispose of
the property by public or private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to
covenants or other legally binding restrictions that will secure appropriate
rights of public access and promote the preservation of the property;
      (4)   Restore, preserve, and operate historic properties;
      (5)   Recommend to the governing board that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for cause;
      (6)   Conduct an educational program regarding historic properties and
districts within its jurisdiction;
      (7)   Cooperate with the state, federal, and local governments in
pursuance of the purposes of this section. The governing board or the
commission, when authorized by the governing board, may contract with the
state, or the United States of America, or any agency of either, or with any
other organization provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or
federal law;
      (8)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee, or agent of the commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof;
      (9)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation
element as part of the local government's comprehensive plan;
      (10)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions, or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks, pursuant to this section;
      (11)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area, or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary or appropriate;
      (12)   To publish information, or otherwise inform the owners of property
within the historic districts or of designated landmarks, about matters
pertinent to its duties, organization, procedures, duties, or requirements; and
      (13)   To exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as are
required elsewhere by this section and/or state law.
   (E)   Establishment and amendment procedure.
      (1)   Requests for establishment of an historic district may be made by
the governing board, the Planning Board, Planning & Community Development
staff, or any interested person.
      (2)   All requests shall first be presented to the Historic Preservation
Commission. The requests should include reference to the historical,
architectural, or archaeological significance of the proposed district. The
Commission will conduct a preliminary investigation to determine the
eligibility of the proposed area.
      (3)   If the Commission determines that the proposed area is ineligible
to become an historic district, the Commission shall report such determination
to the entity that requested the designation. Such report shall be made within
30 days of the Commission's consideration of the request. The report may also
include recommendations of if and how the request may be amended in order to
make the area eligible as an historic district.
      (4)   If the Commission determines that a proposed area is eligible to
become an historic district, it shall notify property owners within the area
through first class mail that establishment of an historic district will be
considered by the Commission at a specified date and time. The Commission shall
hold the public informational meetings and receive questions and comments,
after which they shall make refinements to any proposed boundaries.
      (5)   Amendment. The Commission shall prepare and submit a report to the
Planning Board and the governing board. The report shall include, but not be
limited to, the following information:
         (a)   A boundary description of the area;
         (b)   A map at a scale of not less than one inch represents 200 feet
(1" to 200'), showing the boundaries of the proposed area; and
         (c)   A description of the significance of the area, including its
buildings, structures, features, sites, or surroundings.
      (6)   Pursuant to review and comment by the governing board, the report
shall be forwarded to the North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural
Resources who shall make an analysis of and recommendations concerning such
report and description of proposed boundaries to the governing board. Failure
of the Department to submit its written analysis and recommendations to the
governing within 30 calendar days after a written request for such analysis has
been received by the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources shall relieve
the town of any responsibility for awaiting such analysis, and the governing
board may at any time thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend
this chapter.
      (7)   Once all of the previous procedural steps have been met, rezoning
the proposed area to an historic district shall proceed in the same manner as
would otherwise be required for a change to this chapter.
   (F)   Historic district overlay regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. All uses permitted in the underlying zoning
district shall be permitted in the historic overlay district.
      (2)   Regulation of exterior features. No exterior portion of any
building or other structure, nor above-ground utility structure, nor any type
of on-premise sign, nor important landscape, or natural features may be
erected, altered, restored, moved, or demolished within a historic overlay
district until and after a certificate of appropriateness has been approved by
the Historic Preservation Commission according to the requirements of division
(H) of this section.
   (G)   Historic landmarks. Requests for designation of an historic landmark
may be made by the governing board, the Planning Board, Planning & Community
Development staff, or any interested person.
      (1)   All requests shall first be presented to the Historic Preservation
Commission. The requests should include reference to the historical,
architectural, or archaeological significance of the proposed landmark. The
Commission will conduct a preliminary investigation to determine the
eligibility of the landmark.
      (2)   If the Commission determines that the proposed landmark is
ineligible to become an historic landmark, the Commission shall report such
determination to the entity that requested the designation. Such report shall
be made within 30 days of the Commission's consideration of the request. The
report may also include recommendations of if and how the request may be
amended in order to improve it.
      (3)   If the Commission determines that the proposed landmark is eligible
to become an historic landmark, it shall notify property owners within the area
through first class mail that designation of an historic landmark will be
considered by the Commission at a specified date and time. The Commission shall
hold the public informational meetings and receive questions and comments.
      (4)   The Commission shall prepare and submit a report to the Planning
Board and the governing board. The report shall include, but not be limited to,
the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the current property owner;
         (b)   The location of the property proposed to be designated historic,
including the street address and tax map and parcel numbers;
         (c)   The date of construction and of any later alterations, if any;
         (d)   An architectural or archaeological description of the area of
the site or structure proposed to be designated. If outbuildings or other
appurtenant features are proposed for designation, the report shall contain a
description of those features;
         (e)   An assessment and historical discussion of the site or structure
within its type, period, and locality;
         (f)   Photographs that clearly depict the property proposed for
designation, including views of all façades, pertinent details and siting; and
         (g)   A map clearly showing the location and boundaries of the
property, including any outbuildings and appurtenant features.
      (5)   Pursuant to review and comment by the governing board, the report
shall be forwarded to the North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural
Resources who shall make an analysis of and recommendations concerning such
report and description of proposed boundaries to the governing board. Failure
of the Department to submit its written analysis and recommendations to the
governing within 30 calendar days after a written request for such analysis has
been received by the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources shall relieve
the town of any responsibility for awaiting such analysis, and the governing
board may at any time thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend
this chapter.
      (6)   The governing board and Historic Preservation Commission shall hold
a joint legislative hearing on the proposed ordinance. Notice of the hearings
shall be published once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper
generally circulated within the town. Written notice of the hearings shall also
be mailed by the Commission to all owners and occupants of properties. All such
notices shall be published or mailed not less than ten nor more than 25 days
prior to the date set for the public hearing. In computing such period, the day
of publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing shall be
included.
      (7)   Upon adoption of the ordinance or any amendments thereto, the
owners and occupants of each designated historic property shall be given
written notification of such designation. One copy of the ordinance and each
amendment thereto shall be filed by the Historic Preservation Commission in the
office of the County Register of Deeds. Each historic property designated as an
historic landmark in the ordinance shall be indexed according to the name of
the owner of the property in the grantee and grantor indexes in the Register of
Deeds office, and the Historic Preservation Commission shall pay a reasonable
fee for filing and indexing. A second copy of the ordinance and of each
amendment thereto shall be kept on file in the Town Clerk's office and shall be
made available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A third copy of
the ordinance and each amendment thereto shall be given to the Wilkes County
Building Inspector.
      (8)   Upon adoption of the ordinance or any amendments thereto, it shall
be the duty of the Historic Preservation Commission to give notice thereof to
the Wilkes County tax assessor. The designation and any recorded restrictions
upon the property limiting its use for preservation purposes shall be
considered by the assessor in appraising it for tax purposes. The fact that a
building, structure, site, area, or object has been designated an historic
landmark shall be clearly indicated on all tax maps maintained by the county
for such period as the designation remains in effect.
   (H)   Certificates of appropriateness.
      (1)   No exterior portion of any building or other structure (including
masonry, walls, fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other
appurtenant features) nor above-ground utility structure, nor any type of
outdoor advertising sign, nor important landscape and natural features may be
erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished on a landmark or within the
historic district until and after the property owner or his/her agent has
contacted town staff to determine whether the project will require a
certificate of appropriateness.
      (2)   The Town of Wilkesboro and all public utility companies shall be
required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness for landmarks and in the
historic district prior to initiating any changes in the character of street
paving, sidewalks, utility installations, lighting, walls, fences, and
structures on property, streets, or easements owned or franchised by the State
of North Carolina, Town of Wilkesboro, or public utility companies.
      (3)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be issued prior to the
issuance of a zoning and building permit or other permit granted for purposes
of constructing, altering, moving or demolishing structures. Therefore, a
certificate of appropriateness is a prerequisite to the issuance of such a
zoning permit or such other permits. Any zoning permits or such other permits
not issued in conformity with this section shall be invalid. A certificate of
appropriateness shall be required whether or not a building or other permit is
required.
   (I)   Maintenance and repair permitted. No certificate of appropriateness
shall be required for:
      (1)   The routine maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural
feature in an historic district or on an historic landmark that does not
involve a change in design, material, or outer appearance;
      (2)   The Commission shall have no jurisdiction over interior arrangement
and shall take no action unless it is to prevent the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving, or demolition of buildings,
structures, appurtenant features, outdoor advertising signs or other
significant features which would be incongruous with the special character of a
landmark or district;
      (3)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving,
or demolishing of any such feature that the building inspector or similar
official shall certify to the property owner and to the Historic Preservation
Commission is required by the public safety because of an unsafe condition; and
      (4)   The routine maintenance or repair of streets, sidewalks, pavement
markings, utility lines, street signs, traffic signs, and/or replacement of
streetlight fixtures in the event of equipment failure, accidental damage, or
natural occurrences.
   (J)   Minor works. The Historic Preservation Commission may, after adoption
of Design Review Standards, allow the review and approval of a certificate of
appropriateness for minor works by town staff. However, no denial of a
certificate of appropriateness is allowed without formal action by the
Commission.
   (K)   Procedures to obtain a certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Applications. Applications for a certificate of appropriateness
shall be submitted to the town staff no later than 15 business days prior to
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Historic Preservation Commission.
Town staff is responsible for transmitting the application to the Historic
Preservation Commission.
      (2)   Notice and hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings shall be mailed
to the person or entity whose application is the subject of the hearing; to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not
initiate the hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land within 100 feet of
the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons
entitled to receive notice as provided by this chapter. In the absence of
evidence to the contrary, the Historic Preservation Commission may rely on the
county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice.
The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not more than
25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time period, the
Historic Preservation Commission shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. The Commission may continue an evidentiary hearing
that has been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular Commission meeting without
further advertisement. Prior to the issuance or denial of a certificate of
appropriateness, the Historic Preservation Commission will give the applicant
and other affected property owners and/or residents the opportunity to be
heard.
      (3)   Time limit for action. The Historic Preservation Commission shall
act upon the application within 60 calendar days after its filing. If the
Commission fails to act upon the application within this time shall be deemed
to constitute approval and a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued.
      (4)   Decisions. All actions of the Historic Preservation Commission
shall be set forth in writing. The Historic Preservation Commission’s final
action on an application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be by the
passage of a motion to take one of the following actions:
         (a)   Approve the application for a certificate of appropriateness as
proposed, and provide in writing the findings on which the decision is based;
         (b)   Approve the application for a certificate of appropriateness
subject to specific conditions and/or modifications, providing these conditions
of approval in writing; or
         (c)   Disapprove the application for a certificate of appropriateness
as proposed, and provide in writing the findings on which the decision is
based.
   (L)   Time limit on approval. The applicant shall have 180 days from the
date the certificate of appropriateness is approved and issued to procure a
building or demolition permit. Failure to procure the permit in this period
will be a failure to comply with the certificate of appropriateness and it
shall be void. If a building permit is not required, the work must be completed
within the 180-day period. If work is commenced but discontinued for a period
of 180 days or more, the certificate will be void.
   (M)   Reapplication after denial. If the Historic Preservation Commission
determines that a certificate of appropriateness should not be issued, a new
application affecting the same property may be submitted only if substantial
changes are made in plans for the proposed work.
   (N)   Demolition.
      (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
relocation, demolition or destruction of a designated landmark or a building,
structure or site within an historic district may not be denied, except as
provided in division (N)(2) of this section. However, the effective date of
such a certificate may be delayed for a period of up to 365 days from the date
of approval. The Commission shall reduce the maximum period of delay authorized
by this section where it finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or
be permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return from such property
by virtue of the delay. During such period the Commission shall negotiate with
the owner and with any other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving
the building or site.
      (2)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a building, site or structure determined by the
state historic preservation officer as having statewide significance as defined
in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied
except where the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship
or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the
denial.
      (3)   If the Commission has voted to recommend designation of a property
as a landmark or designation of an area as a district, and final designation
has not been made by the governing board, the demolition or destruction of any
building, site or structure located on the property of the proposed landmark or
in the proposed district may be delayed by the Commission for a period of up to
180 days or until the governing board takes final action on the designation,
whichever comes first.
      (4)   In case any building, structure, site, area or object designated as
a landmark or located within the historic district is about to be demolished
whether as a result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially altered,
remodeled, removed or destroyed, except in compliance with this section, the
Commission or other party aggrieved by such action may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful action.
   (O)   Appeals. Any aggrieved party may take an appeal from the actions of
the Historic Preservation Commission to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, whether
the application was approved or denied. The appeal shall be taken within 30
calendar days after the decision of the Commission and shall be in the nature
of certiorari.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 156.605 US HWY 421 OVERLAY - RESERVED.
§ 156.606 WATERSHED PROTECTION OVERLAY.
   (A)   Intent. It is the purpose of this section to protect the quality of
drinking water for the Town of Wilkesboro by setting standards for the
development that occurs within designated public water supply watershed areas.
It is further intended that the establishment of watershed regulations reflect
the protection of critical environmental areas in accordance with the State of
North Carolina's Water Supply Watershed Protection Rules.
   (B)   Authority. The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in G.S.
§ 160A-174, General Ordinance-Making Power, and in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21,
delegated the responsibility or directed local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry.
   (C)   Effective date. The provisions in this section were adopted on
September 7, 1993 and shall become effective on September 30, 1993.
   (D)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this section shall apply within the
areas designated as a Public Water Supply Watershed by the North Carolina
Environmental Management Commission and shall be defined and established on the
Official Zoning Map.
   (E)   Existing development. Any existing development as defined in this
Charter may be continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided
herein. Expansions to structures classified as existing development, must meet
the requirements of this section, however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the density calculations.
   (F)   Watershed areas described.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section the Town of Wilkesboro
extraterritorial jurisdiction is hereby divided into the following areas:
         (a)   WS-IV-Critical Area; and
         (b)   WS-IV-PA (Protected Area).
      (2)   WS-IV-Critical Area.
         (a)   Only new development activities that require an erosion/
sedimentation control plan under state law or approved local programs are
required to meet the provisions of this division when located in the WS-IV
watershed. In order to address a moderate to high land use intensity pattern,
single-family residential uses are allowed at a maximum of two dwelling units
per acre. All other residential and non-residential development shall be
allowed 24% built-upon area. New sludge application sites and landfills are
specifically prohibited.
         (b)   Allowed uses.
            1.   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
Agricultural activities conducted after January 1st, 1993 shall maintain a
minimum ten foot vegetative buffer, or equivalent control as determined by the
Soil and Water Conservation Commission, along all perennial waters indicated on
the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic
maps or as determined by local government studies. Animal operations greater
than 100 animal units shall employ Best Management Practices (July 1, 1994
recommended by the Soil and Water Conservation Commission).
            2.   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest
Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101-.0209).
            3.   Residential.
            4.   Non-residential development, except, the storage of toxic and
hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is implemented; landfills;
and sites for land application of sludge/residuals or petroleum contaminated
soils.
         (c)   Density and built-upon limits.
            1.   Single family residential development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per acre on a project by project basis. No residential lot shall
be less than one-half acre, except within an approved cluster development.
            2.   All other residential and non-residential-development shall
not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis. For the purpose
of calculating the built-upon area, total project area shall include total
acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
      (3)   WS-IV-Protected Area.
         (a)   Only new development activities that require an erosion/
sedimentation control plan under state law or approved local government program
are required to meet the provisions of this division when located in a WS-IV
watershed. In order to address a moderate to high land use intensity pattern,
single-family residential uses shall develop at a maximum of two dwelling units
per acres (2 du/ac). All other residential and nonresidential development shall
be allowed at a maximum of 24% built-upon area. A maximum of three dwelling
units per acre (3 du/ac) or 36% built-upon area is allowed for projects without
a curb and gutter street system.
         (b)   Allowed uses.
            1.   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security
Act of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
            2.   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest
Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 1l.6101-.0209).
            3.   Residential development.
            4.   Non-residential development, excluding the storage of toxic
and hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is implemented.
         (c)   Density and built-upon limits.
            1.   Single family residential development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per acre, as defined on a project-by-project basis. No
residential lot shall be less than one-half acre (or 20,000 square feet,
excluding roadway right-of-way), or one third acre for projects without a curb
and gutter street system, except within an approved cluster development.
            2.   All other residential and Non-Residential-development shall
not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For projects
without a curb and gutter street system, development shall not exceed 36%
built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For the purpose of calculating
built-upon area, total project area shall include acreage in the tract on which
the project is to be developed.
            3.   In addition to the development allowed under divisions (F)(3)
(c)1. and (F)(3)(c)2. of this section, new development and expansions to
existing development may occupy up to 10% of the protected area with up to 70%
built-upon area on a project by project basis, when approved as a special
density allocation (SDA). The Watershed Administrator is authorized to approve
SDA's consistent with the provisions of this section. Projects must, to the
maximum extent practical, minimize built-upon surface area; direct storm
waterways from surface waters and incorporate best management practices to
minimize water quality impacts. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area,
total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the
project is to be developed.
   (G)   Special density allocations.
      (1)   The Watershed Review Board may grant Special Density Allocations
(SDAs) to project sites in the WS-IVPA Watershed Areas. The SDAs may permit up
to 70% built upon area on a project by project basis without requiring
installation of stormwater control devices. No more than 10% of the WS-IV-PA
Watershed Area may be developed under SDAs. At no time may the built upon area
of a SDA project site exceed 70% of the total SDA project site.
      (2)   SDA requests must be submitted to the Watershed Administrator, who
shall preview the request and submit it to the Watershed Review Committee. The
Watershed Review Committee will review the SDA request, and either approve or
deny the request. If the request is denied, the applicant may redesign the
project and resubmit the request.
      (3)   If the request is approved by the Watershed Review Committee, the
Watershed Administrator shall issue a SDA permit. The permit shall be valid for
one year from date of issuance. A record of all SDA permits shall be kept on
file in the Office of the Watershed Administrator.
      (4)   The following review criteria will be used by the Watershed Review
Committee to evaluate SDA requests. The review criteria will be used to
encourage applicants to maximize development in the SDA project areas, as well
as incorporate measures to improve the water quality and aesthetics of the
project area. Projects must have a point total of at least 300 to qualify for a
SDA.
TABLE 156.606 REVIEW CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING SDA REQUESTS
CRITERIA POINTS
TABLE 156.606 REVIEW CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING SDA REQUESTS
CRITERIA                                                                POINTS
Landscaping
Minimum of 8' landscaped area along street-side of property (measured   40
from right-of-way)
Minimum of 8' landscaped area along side of property (measured property 30
line)
Minimum of one landscaped space for every space in parking lot          50
-Landscaped area must have grass or mulch ground cover with trees or shrubs
planted according to the following specifications:
--evergreen shrubs - 6' spacing with 1.5' minimum height at planting
--evergreen trees - 10' spacing with 6' minimum height at planting
--deciduous trees - 20' spacing with 8' minimum height at planting
Easement
Permanent greenway easement, a minimum width of 25', granted to Town of
Wilkesboro along perennial streams or other location approved by the    50
Town of Wilkesboro Planning Board; or, dedication of right-of-way, a
minimum width of 15', along street-side of property for sidewalks
Multi-story building development (excluding basement)                   75
Building development with parking located under building (excluding     75
basement)
Area of project that remains in undisturbed, natural vegetation
50% or more natural vegetation                                          50
25 to 50% natural vegetation                                            25
Erosion Control Plan approved and implemented                           25
Permanent sedimentation/erosion control measures on site (i.e., dry
detention ponds, sand filters, artificial wetlands, infiltration ponds, 25
etc.)
Tax base added by project
$250,000 or less                                                        25
$250,000 to $500,000                                                    50
$500,000 to $1,000,000                                                  75
$1,000,000 or more                                                      100
Employment added by project
1 to 10                                                                 25
11 to 25                                                                50
26 to 75                                                                75
76 or more                                                              100
Planned Unit Development (PUD) approved by                              50
Town of Wilkesboro Planning Board:
Drainage
Surface drainage rather than curb and gutter; or                        40
Drainage through vegetated buffer or grass swale                        60
Percentage of Built-Upon Area
36 to 50%                                                               25
51 to 60%                                                               50
61 to 70%                                                               75
TOTAL POSSIBLE POINTS:                                                  805
 
   (H)   Cluster development. Clustering of development is allowed under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Built-upon area or storm water control requirements of the projects
shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area or balance of watershed,
whichever applies.
      (2)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize storm
water runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated storm
water flow.
      (3)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. Where the development has an incorporated property owner association,
the title of the open space shall be conveyed to the association for
management. Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the Wilkes County Register of Deeds.
   (I)   Buffer areas required.
      (1)   A minimum 30 foot vegetative buffer for development activities is
required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5) minute scale topographic maps or as determined by local
government studies. Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization
is permitted.
      (2)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water
dependent structures and public projects such as road crossings and greenways
where no practical alternative exists. These activities should minimize built-
upon surface area; direct runoffs away from the surface waters and maximize the
utilization of storm water Best Management Practices.
   (J)   Additional requirements for variances within watershed areas.
      (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed. Such notice shall include a
description of the variance being requested. Local governments receiving notice
of the variance request may submit comments to the Watershed Administrator
prior to a decision by the Watershed Review Board. Such comments shall become a
part of the record of proceedings of the Watershed Review Board.
      (2)   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and
if the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance, the
Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and ruling on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (3)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental
Management Commission for its review as follows:
         (a)   If the commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner cannot
secure a reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted; and (2) the variance, if granted, will
not result in a serious threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed, or approve the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision
and send it to the Watershed Review Board. If the Commission approves the
variance as proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the
proposed variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
         (b)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance; or (2) the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Watershed Review Board. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
         (c)   If the application calls for the granting of a minor variance,
then the Watershed Review Board may grant such variance if it determines that
to do so would not result in a serious threat to the water supply.
      (4)   Powers of the Planning Board.
         (a)   To act as the Watershed Review Board on proposed plats of land
subdivision and hear major and minor variance requests related to the
subdivisions within the designated Water Supply Watershed.
         (b)   To hear cases concerning major variances, vested rights,
administrative reviews and appeals regarding this section or decisions of the
Zoning Enforcement Officer in designated Water Supply Watersheds.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022)
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.701 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. If a term
is defined within a section, then the definition listed in that section shall
control.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). An ADU is a second dwelling subordinate in
size to the principal dwelling unit, located in either the principal dwelling
or an accessory structure. The ADU is constructed so as to maintain the
appearance and essential character of a single family dwelling and/or any
existing accessory structures.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a nature,
customarily associated with and clearly subordinate to the principal use or
structure.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS. As defined in G.S. § 14-202.10, except for massage
therapists that meet the provisions of G.S. §§ 90-620 through 90-636.
   ALLEY. A service way providing only a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
   ANTENNA. A device, dish, or array used to transmit or receive
telecommunications signals.
   AWNING. A cloth, plastic, or other nonstructural covering permanently
attached to a building that may be raised or retracted to a position against
the building when not in use.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied structure that is residential in
character and offers overnight lodging and meals for a fee.
   BERM. A mound of earth.
   BOARDING or ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling or group of dwellings, as
distinguished from a motel, containing in combination three or more lodging
units intended primarily for rental or lease for periods of longer than one
week, with or without board for not more than 12 persons.
   BREWERY. An establishment where beer or malt beverages are made on the
premises at an annual rate of over 15,000 barrels per year.
   BREWPUB. An establishment where beer and malt beverages are made on the
premises in conjunction with a restaurant or bar.
   BUFFER. A fence, wall, hedges, landscaped area, additional setbacks, or
combination of the above, designed for the purpose of screening or to set apart
one land use from another.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after setbacks have been
satisfied.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, process, equipment, or
goods.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of
the finished grade along the side of the building or structure to the highest
point of the building or structure.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated.
   CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, metal, plastic, fiberglass or
glass on a support, which is supported in total or in part, from the ground and
providing shelter over, for example, a doorway, outside walk, interior access
drive or parking area.
   CHANNEL LETTERING. A sign design technique involving the installation of
three-dimensional lettering against a background, typically a sign face or
building façade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-501.png]
 
   Example of Channel Lettering
   CLUB or LODGE. An establishment operated by an association or corporation
for social, recreational, fraternal, or charitable purposes, but which is not
operated for profit or otherwise conducted as a business.
   CONDOMINIUM. A residential development of two or more buildings designed and
built for unit ownership according to the North Carolina Unit Ownership Act
(G.S Ch. 47A).
   CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY. A facility composed of residential and congregate
areas and affording health sustaining services to assist the residents. The
residential components shall be considered as self-contained dwelling units as
defined in the North Carolina Building Code. The facility shall also have
congregate areas for use by or service to the residents which may include
dining, recreation and medical areas. In addition, services may be provided
such as custodial care, physical therapy, and social and recreation
coordination.
   CORNICE. An architectural decorative horizontal projecting crown of an
exterior building wall.
   CURB-CUTS. An opening cut in a curb allowing for the construction of a
driveway to a single or multi-retail establishment off a major thoroughfare.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residence purposes and does not change
the character thereof; and in connection with which there is not display and
not person, not a resident on the premises, is employed specifically in
connection with the customary home occupation. Provided further, that no
mechanical equipment is installed or used except such that is normally used for
domestic or professional purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor
space of any structure is used for home occupations.
   DISTILLERY. A manufacturing operation engaged in the production of distilled
beverages.
   DUPLEX, DWELLING. A detached building with two dwelling units which may be
attached side by side or one above the other. The two dwellings shall be
roughly equal in floor area.
   DWELLING. A building designed, arranged, or used for permanent living
quarters for one or more persons.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single independent
habitable unit with facilities used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, cooking, and eating by one family; for owner occupancy or rental,
lease or other occupancy on a weekly or longer basis, and containing
independent cooking, sanitary, and sleeping facilities. Units otherwise meeting
this definition but occupied by transients on a rental or lease basis for
periods of less than one week shall be construed to be lodging units.
   EASEMENT. A grant of rights by a property owner to another individual,
group, or governmental unit to make limited use of a portion of real property
for a specified purpose.
   EAVE. The overhanging lower edge created by the intersection of the of the
roof and wall planes.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. Any business enterprise where persons utilize
electronic machines, including but not limited to computers and gaming
terminals, to conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash,
merchandise or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed,
whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by electronic games
played or by predetermined odds. This term includes, but is not limited to
internet cafes, skill arcades, internet sweepstakes, beach sweepstakes or
cybercafes but specifically excludes any lottery approved by the State of North
Carolina and/any activity of a non-profit that is deemed lawful under state
law.
   ENTRANCE. The front door(s) established as the primary customer access
point. The area of an entrance shall include the area on either side of the
door for a distance of at least ten feet.
   EXTERIOR WALLS. The vertical or nearly-vertical planes which form the
exterior envelope of a building.
   FAÇADE. The portion of any exterior building elevation extending from grade
to the top of the parapet, wall or eaves and extending the entire length of the
building. The FAÇADE includes any artificial or structural elevation which is
primarily visible to the general public.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption living together in a dwelling unit; or a group of not more than three
persons who are not related by blood, marriage, or adoption living together in
a dwelling unit. A FAMILY may include five or fewer foster children.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A facility licensed by the appropriate state agency as a
family care home for one to six unrelated individuals, together with support
and supervisory personnel. FAMILY CARE HOMES shall not be located less that
one-half mile from each other. See also definitions in G.S. § 160D-907.
   FARM, BONA-FIDE. One used for purposes that include the production and
activities relating or incidental to the production of crops, fruits,
vegetables, flowering or ornamental plants, dairy, livestock, poultry, and all
other forms of agricultural products having a domestic or foreign market.
   FASCIA. A horizontal band or board, often used to conceal the ends of
rafters; the front of an object or other structural roof components.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. See SIGN TYPES - (12) SIGN, MONUMENT (OR GROUND).
   FULL-CUTOFF LIGHT FIXTURE. A light fixture that allows no emission of light
above a horizontal plane through the fixture.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage.
   GROUP PROJECT. Two or more buildings constructed on the same zoning lot of
at least two acres not subdivided into the customary streets and lots.
   HEIGHT FREESTANDING SIGN. The vertical distance between the highest part of
the sign or its supporting structure, whichever is higher, and finished grade
at the midpoint of the base of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-499.png]
 
   JUNK. (G.S. § 136-143(3)) Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, trash, rubber, debris, waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked
automobiles, or parts thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or
nonferrous material.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for
maintenance or operation of a motor vehicle graveyard, and the term shall
include garbage dumps and sanitary fills. An establishment or place of business
which stores or keeps for a period of 15 days or more materials within the
meaning of "junk" as defined in G.S. § 136-143(3) which has been created as a
result of industrial activity shall be deemed to be a JUNKYARD within the
meaning of this definition.
   KENNEL. Any facility used for the purpose of boarding animals, excluding
horses, cattle, swine, sheep, goats, geese or peafowl. KENNELS may conduct
other such incidental activities, such as the sale of animals, treatment of the
animals, grooming or cleaning, and the sale of pet supplies.
   LARGE RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS. Any single or multi-tenant retail establishment
with a gross floor area greater than or equal to 30,000 square feet.
   LIVABILITY SPACE. Livability space includes, but is not limited to, natural
areas, lawns and other landscaped areas, walkways, terraces, sitting areas,
outdoor open space, and recreation space. Livability space does not include
areas designated for vehicular use or as public rights-of-way.
   LIVABILITY SPACE RATIO. A ratio where the numerator is the square footage of
livability space, and the denominator is the square footage of the entire
parcel excluding public rights-of-way.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the boundary lines of a lot
exclusive of street or highway rights-of-way and easements or access to other
property.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection, or
upon two parts of the same street, forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees as measured at the centerline of the street. The point of intersection
of the street right-of-way lines, or of the street right-of-way lines as
extended, is the corner.
   LOT COVERAGE. That portion of the lot area, expressed as a percent, that is
covered by impervious surface cover.
   LOT DEPTH. The depth of a lot is the mean distance of the side lines of the
lot measured from the mid-point of the front lot line to the midpoint of the
rear lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A line or series of connected line segments bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line which separates the lot from a street right-of-
way. Corner lots shall have only one FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line that separates the lot from another lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, except in the case of a triangular lot, a line ten feet in
length, entirely within the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from
the front lot line, or a chord thereof if the front lot line is curved, shall
be considered as the rear lot line for purposes of determining the required
rear yard. In cases where neither of these conditions is applicable, the Zoning
Officer shall designate the rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Wilkes County, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lines measured along a line
that is parallel to the front lot line and located the minimum exterior setback
distance from the front line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DWELLING. As provided in G.S. §143-145(7), a structure
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight
body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without permanent foundation.
MANUFACTURED HOME DWELLING includes any structure that is certified by the
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development as a manufactured
home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land under single ownership
which has been developed for the placement of manufactured homes for non-
transient use. This definition shall not include manufactured home sales lots
on which unoccupied manufactured/mobile homes are parking for purposed of
inspection and sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. The land in a manufactured housing development
allotted to or designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
   MATERIALS. Finish materials used on publicly visible walls, freestanding
signage, and pedestrian walkways.
   MICROBREWERY. An establishment where beer or malt beverages are made on the
premises at an annual rate of less than or equal to 15,000 barrels per year.
   MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL. Dwelling units located in commercial districts within
structures in which commercial uses are also present.
   MODULAR HOME DWELLING. Any structure intended to be used as a residential
dwelling unit which is constructed away from the site for which it is
ultimately intended, meets all standards established by the North Carolina
Residential Building Code, is certified as a modular home by the North Carolina
Department of Insurance, is transported to its ultimate destination, assembled,
and placed on a permanent foundation, and is not designed to be readily moved
from that site.
   MOTOR VEHICLE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. Any
establishment or place of business upon which three or more unlicensed, used
motor vehicles which cannot be operated under their own power are kept or
stored for a period of 15 days or more shall be deemed to be a MOTOR VEHICLE
GRAVEYARD within the meaning of this definition (boats and/or parts of boats
are to be included within this definition).
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building arranged to be occupied by three or more
families living independently of each other.
   NONCONFORMITY, LEGAL. A legal use of a building and/or land that antedates
the adoption or future amendments of this chapter and does not conform to the
regulations for the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. A facility for chronic or convalescent patients that is
designed to provide long-term care for persons who require medical or nursing
care. NURSING HOMES require skilled nursing personnel and life-support systems
and are licensed by the State of North Carolina.
   OPEN SPACE. The total gross land area on a development site which is not
covered by buildings or vehicular use areas.
   OUTPARCEL. A freestanding lot developed separately but linked functionally
to a shopping center.
   PARAPET. A portion of a vertical wall or architectural railing of a building
that extends above the roofline.
   PEDESTRIAN SITE PLAN. A plan submitted with a large retail establishment
(over 30,000 square feet) that denotes the location of certain pedestrian
requirements.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing services
generally to individuals, such as dry-cleaning and laundry pick-up facilities,
portrait photographic studios, beauty and barber shops, seamstress shops, shoe
repair shops, and clothing rental shops.
   PILASTER. A vertical projection from a wall generally used for architectural
support, esthetic effect, or ornamental purposes.
   PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDINGS. A building constructed from metal components
manufactured and fabricated off site and assembled on the building site.
   PROJECTION. A portion of the building that extends or juts out from the main
wall to add architectural interest to the façade.
   PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY. Any structure or facility transmitting a service
provided by a government or public utility, including, without limitation, fire
stations, emergency medical service centers, telephone and repeater stations,
pumping substations, and water towers, but not including telecommunication
towers, antennas, and other telecommunication devices.
   QUALIFIED SECURITY PROVIDER. A person who is a criminal justice officer
certified by the North Carolina Education and Training Standards Commission.
   RAFTER. Any of a number of structural components that support a roof
(includes roof trusses).
   RECESSION. A depression in a building facade for the purpose of
architectural detail or plan functionality.
   RECREATION SPACE. A space designated for the development’s use as a whole
and designed to provide formalized recreational opportunities.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use,
including, but not limited to: travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, self-propelled motor homes, personal watercrafts and boats.
   REST HOMES. A facility for the care of the aged and infirm whose principal
need is a home with such sheltered and custodial care as their age and
infirmities require. Medical care is only occasional, such as may be required
in the home of any individual. The residents of such homes will not, as a rule,
have remedial ailments for which continuing skilled planned medical and nursing
care is indicated.
   REVEALS. The side faces of a window or door opening (often known as side
lights and transoms).
   ROOF BOOT. A special piece of flashing designed for installation over a vent
protruding through the roof.
   SALVAGE YARD. A non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure,
including any projection thereof, and a lot line or street right-of-way line,
the measurement to whichever is less.
   SIGN. A communications medium, method, device, structure, or fixture that
incorporates motion, lighting, graphics, symbols, or written copy intended to
promote the sale of a product, commodity, or service, or to provide direction
to or identification of a neighborhood, premises, event or facility.
   SIGN ALTERATION. Any change to the size, shape, illumination, position,
location, or construction of a sign or the supporting structure of a sign.
Maintenance or change of copy which does not entail replacement of the sign
face is not included in this definition.
   SIGN AREA. The size of a sign in square feet as computed by the area of not
more than two standard geometric shapes (specifically circles, squares,
rectangles, or triangles) that encompass the shape of the sign exclusive of the
supporting structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd7382cff2bd0bf81f761f2178349483c0a92f27/
IMAGES/0-0-0-497.png]
 
Example Illustrating Measurement of the Area of an Irregularly Shaped Sign
   SIGN COPY. Any graphic design, letter, numeral, symbol, figure, device or
other media used separately or in combination that is intended to advertise,
identify or notify, including the panel or background on which such media is
placed.
   SIGN FACE. The side or sides of a sign on which a message is placed.
   SIGN ILLUMINATION, TYPES OF.
      (1)   Ambient. Illumination of a sign by light from the sign’s general
surroundings, such as daylight or nearby streetlights.
      (2)   External. Illumination of a sign by a source of light located
exterior to the sign, such as a floodlight.
      (3)   Internal. Illumination of a sign by a source of light contained
within the sign itself.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. A sign legally consistent with the standards in place
at the time of installation but which now does not meet one or more current
standards.
   SIGN TYPES.
      (1)   Sign, Awning. A sign incorporated into or attached to an awning.
      (2)   Sign, Blade (or Projecting). A sign attached to and projecting from
the building façade, typically at right angles to the building.
      (3)   Sign, Canopy. A sign incorporated into or attached to a canopy.
      (4)   Sign, Changeable Copy. A sign or portion thereof designed to
accommodate frequent copy changes through manual, mechanical or digital means.
      (5)   Sign, Directional. An on-premises sign whose message is exclusively
limited to guiding the circulation of motorists or pedestrians entering,
exiting, or on a site, including signs marking entrances and exits, parking
areas, loading zones, or circulation patterns.
      (6)   Sign, Directory. A sign listing the names, uses, or locations of
the discrete uses or activities conducted within a building or group of
buildings that is intended to provide on-site directions.
      (7)   Sign, Exempt. A sign identified in §
156.407(F) that is exempt from the requirements of §
156.407, either conditionally or unconditionally.
      (8)   Sign, Flat (or Wall). A sign attached directly to and generally
parallel with the façade of a building.
      (9)   Sign, Government. A sign installed by an active domestic unit of
government, or by a contracted installer on behalf of the unit of government.
      (10)   Sign, Incidental. A sign, generally informational, whose purpose
is secondary to the use of the premises on which it is located, such as the
date of building erection, the building address, the hours of operation, the
open or closed status of the operation, the credit cards honored, and similar
incidental information, and containing no commercial message.
      (11)   Sign, Machine. A sign attached to a machine such as a gasoline
pump, a drive-through menu kiosk, a soft drink dispensing machine, or an ATM.
      (12)   Sign, Monument (or Ground). A freestanding sign supported by a
structure that is at least as wide as the sign to which it is attached.
      (13)   Sign, Outdoor Advertising (or Billboard). A type of off-premises
sign that contains a commercial message.
      (14)   Sign, Permanent. A sign intended, designed and/or constructed for
permanent display and permitted as such.
      (15)   Sign, Pole. A freestanding sign supported by a structure
consisting of not more than two poles.
      (16)   Sign, Sandwich Board (or A-Frame). A temporary freestanding sign
designed and displayed to provide information to pedestrians.
      (17)   Sign, Snipe. A temporary sign not otherwise defined in this
section that is tacked, nailed, posted, glazed, or otherwise affixed to a light
fixture, utility pole, public building, fence, railing, public telephone pole,
traffic control device, or tree.
      (18)   Sign, Temporary. A sign not intended, designed and/or constructed
for permanent display and permitted as such.
      (19)   Sign, Time and Temperature. A sign that displays time and
temperature information as its only message.
      (20)   Sign, V-Type. An attached sign consisting of two separate faces
arranged in a “V” pattern and having an angle of 120 degrees or less as
measured from the side attached to the building.
      (21)   Sign, Window. A sign attached to a display window or door window
that is intended to be viewed from the exterior. This definition shall include
signs attached to the interior of a display window or door window.
   SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED DWELLING. A one-family dwelling attached to two or
more one-family dwellings by common vertical walls. No dwelling unit may be
located above another unit.
   SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED DWELLING. A dwelling which is designed for and
occupied by not more than one family and surrounded by open space or yards and
which is not attached to any other dwelling by any means.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A document that may be granted by the Wilkesboro Town
Council for a specified land use that is permitted in a given zoning district
under provision of this chapter that authorizes the use when the Council makes
specified findings. The Council is also authorized to attach other reasonable
and appropriate conditions to its permission for the protection of both
neighboring properties and larger public interests.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic
that affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street used or designed to be used for through traffic,
usually on a continuous route, commonly referred to as a thoroughfare.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street whose function consists of both carrying traffic
from local residential streets to thoroughfares and providing access to
abutting properties.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for providing direct access to
abutting property.
   STREET, PRIVATE. One that is privately maintained.
   STREET, PUBLIC. One that has been accepted for maintenance by the State of
North Carolina or the Town of Wilkesboro.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected above grade, the use of which
requires more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to
something having more or less permanent location on the ground (excluding
swimming pools, fences, walkways, and patios).
   TAPROOM or TASTING ROOM. A room or facility that is ancillary to producing
beer or other fermented beverages, distilled spirits, or wine where the public
can purchase and consume beverages produced on-site.
   TEXTURED CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS. Architectural concrete masonry is made up
of various face textures known to the industry as split face block, split
scored, fluted or ribbed and ground face masonry units. These units are
manufactured under controlled conditions in a variety of materials, colors and
texture combination.
   THOROUGHFARE. See STREET, ARTERIAL.
   TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. A single-family dwelling unit in a row of at least three
such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside,
no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other
unit by one or more common fire resistant walls.
   TRAFFIC ANALYSIS/PLAN. A plan that addresses the existing and current
traffic problems with a site and provides solutions to address adverse traffic
conditions.
   VACATED BUILDING(S) OR ABANDONED DEVELOPMENT. A building and/or site vacated
for at least six months without an active renovation/rehabilitation building
permit for either the site or structures.
   VARIANCE. A departure from any provisions of the zoning requirements for a
specific parcel, except use, without amending this chapter or the underlying
zoning of the parcel. A VARIANCE usually is granted only upon demonstration of
hardship based on the peculiarity of the property in relation to other
properties in the same zoning district.
   VENEER. Various nonstructural exterior finishes that are attached to the
exterior of a building for improved aesthetics.
   YARD. An open space, unobstructed from the ground upward, extending fully
across the lot while situated between the front lot line, side lot line or rear
lot line and the established front building line, side building line or rear
building line.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street
right-of-way line and the front line of the building, projected to the
sidelines of the lot.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear
line of the lot and the rear line of the building, projected to the sidelines
of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, situated between the side line of the building and the side line of
the lot, and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line
of the rear yard.
(Res. 2022-23, passed 8-1-2022; Ord. 2024-05, passed 5-6-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference           Code Section
Ch. 7A                   156.602
14-202.10                156.701
Ch. 47A                  156.521,
                         156.701
90-620 - 90-632          156.701
Ch. 113A, Art. 4         156.521
130A-290(a)(6)           156.602
130A-290(a)(9)           156.602
130A-290(a)(35)          156.602
130A-290(a)(36)          156.602
136-18(29)               156.214
136-32.2                 156.407
136-32.2(c)              156.407
136-131.1                156.206
136-131.2                156.206
136-143(3)               156.701
136-1312                 156.206
Ch. 143, Art. 21         156.606
Ch. 143, Art. 33C        156.604
143-143.15               156.602
143-145(7)               156.701
143-318.9 - 143-318.18   156.604
143-755                  156.206
160A-174                 156.606
160A-307                 156.214
                         156.102,
Ch. 160D                 156.202,
                         156.203
Ch. 160D, Art. 2         156.103
Ch. 160D, Art. 9, Part 4 156.604
160D-106                 156.206
160D-108                 156.206
160D-108.1               156.206
160D-109                 156.604
160D-109(d)              156.213
160D-202                 156.208
160D-301(a)(2)           156.217
160D-307                 156.103
160D-309                 156.110,
                         156.604
160D-403(f)              156.206
160D-404                 156.203
160D-405                 156.203,
                         156.206
160D-405(d)              156.203
160D-405(f)              156.203
160D-601                 156.103,
                         156.208
160D-602                 156.204,
                         156.206
160D-602(b)              156.207,
                         156.208
160D-604                 156.217
160D-605(a)              156.204
160D-702(b)              156.214
160D-755                 156.206
160D-755(e)(1)           156.206
160D-755(e)(2)           156.206
160D-755(e)(3)           156.206
160D-907                 156.701
160D-947(e)              156.213
160D-1005                156.204
160D-1111                156.206
160D-1114                156.203
160D-1115                156.206
160D-1116                156.202
160D-1123                156.203
160D-1207(e)             156.203
160D-1208                156.203
160D-1402                156.213
160D-1402(c)             156.213
160D-1402(j)             156.213
160D-1403.1              156.206
160D-1405(d)             156.213
                         
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     156.101-
                     156.113,
                     156.201-
                     156.219,
                     156.301-
                     156.303,
2022-23  8-1-2022    156.401-
                     156.415,
                     156.501-
                     156.531,
                     156.601-
                     156.606,
                     156.701
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     156.303,
                     156.405,
                     156.501,
2024-05  5-6-2024    156.508,
                     156.520,
                     156.524,
                     156.701
2024-06  8-5-2024    156.502
2024-08  11-4-2024   156.407,
                     156.504
2025-01  4-7-2025    156.303
                    
 
