ZEBULON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. Pamphlet #6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
MAYOR                                Robert S. Matheny
COMMISSIONER                         Shannon Baxter
COMMISSIONER                         Beverly W. Clark
COMMISSIONER                         Larry Loucks
COMMISSIONER                         Annie Moore
COMMISSIONER                         Glenn York
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN MANAGER                         Joseph M. Moore, II
FINANCE DIRECTOR                     Bobby Fitts
FIRE CHIEF                           Chris Perry
HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR/ TOWN CLERK Lisa M. Markland
PLANNING DIRECTOR                    Michael Clark
POLICE CHIEF                         Jacqui Boykin
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR                Chris Ray
 
CHARTER
Section
   
1.   Chapter 386, Session Laws of 1973.
ARTICLE I.
INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
   
1.1.   Incorporation and General Powers.
ARTICLE II.
CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
   
2.1.   Existing Corporate Boundaries.
   
2.2.   Extension of Corporate Boundaries.
ARTICLE III.
MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
   
3.1.   Composition of Board of Commissioners.
   
3.2.   Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore.
   
3.3.   Terms; Qualifications; Vacancies.
ARTICLE IV.
ELECTION PROCEDURE
   
4.1.   Regular Municipal Elections.
   
4.2.   Elections To Be By Nonpartisan Plurality Method.
ARTICLE V.
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
   
5.1.   Form of Government.
   
5.2.   Town Manager.
   
5.3.   Attorney.
   
5.4.   Town Clerk.
   
5.5.   Town Finance Officer.
   
5.6.   Tax Collector.
   
5.7.   Consolidation of Functions.
   
5.8.   Chief of Police.
   
5.9.   Fire Chief.
   
5.10.   Town Departments.
ARTICLE VI.
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS
FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
   
6.1.   Authority to Make Local Improvements.
   
6.2.   Separate Proceedings Not Required.
   
6.3.   Definitions.
   
6.4.   Improvements Described.
   
6.5.   Water and Sewer Mains Between Streets; Assessment.
   
6.6.   Inclusion of More than One Improvement in Single Proceeding.
   
6.7.   Resolution Ordering Improvements; Publications.
   
6.8.   Details of Construction; Contracts for Construction.
   
6.9.   Determination as to Cost of Improvements.
   
6.10.   Corner Lot Exemptions.
   
6.11.   Preliminary Assessment Roll, Contents, Publication, Posting, Serving or
Mailing.
   
6.12.   Hearing; Revision; Confirmation; Lien.
   
6.13.   Appeal to Superior Court.
   
6.14.   Error in Assessment; Power to Correct; Procedure.
   
6.15.   Reassessment.
   
6.16.   Publication of Notice of Confirmation of Assessment Roll.
   
6.17.   Payment of Assessments in Cash or by Installments.
   
6.18.   Procedure to Enforce Payment; Mandamus Against Railroads and State
Agencies; Foreclosure Against Individuals.
   
6.19.   Assessment of Cost of Water Main and Sewer Extensions.
   
6.20.   Apportionment of Assessments.
   
6.21.   Change of Ownership.
   
6.22.   Lands Subject to Assessment.
   
6.23.   Proceedings in Rem.
   
6.24.   Grass Plot and Driveway Maintenance.
   
6.25.   Abeyance of Certain Water and Sewer Assessments.
   
6.26.   Abutting Property Outside City Limits.
   
6.27.   Acreage Charges for Water and Sewer Connections.
   
6.28.   Site Plan Approval.
   
6.29.   Road or Drainage Projects Fees.
   
6.30.   Open Space Project Fees.
   
6.31.   Recreation Project Fees.
   
6.32.   Implementing.
ARTICLE VII.
EMINENT DOMAIN
   
7.1.   Condemnation; Authority and Procedure.
ARTICLE VIII.
REGULATORY POWERS
   
8.1.   Subdivision; Require Installation of Improvements.
   
8.2.   Applicable to Public Service Corporations.
   
8.3.   Planning Jurisdiction.
ARTICLE IX.
MISCELLANEOUS POWERS
   
9.1.   Powers Additional to Other Powers.
   
9.2.   Regulation of Business on Sundays.
   
9.3.   Operation of Motor Vehicles Upon Certain Premises.
   
9.4.   Forbidding Entry Upon Certain Premises.
   
9.5.   Cemetery Lots; Sale.
ARTICLE X.
CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN
   
10.1.   Presentation of Claims; Suit Upon Claims.
ARTICLE XI.
CHARTER AMENDMENTS
   
11.1.   Incorporation of Amendments.
 
   
2.              
   
3.               
   
4.               
   
5.               
   
6.               
   
7.               
   
8.               
   
9.               
SEC. 1 CHAPTER 386, SESSION LAWS OF 1973.
   An act to revise and consolidate the Charter of the Town of Zebulon and to
repeal prior Charter Acts.
(Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
SEC. 1.1. INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The inhabitants of the Town of Zebulon, within the corporate limits as now
or hereafter established shall be, and continue as they have heretofore been, a
municipal body politic and corporate, under the name of the Town of Zebulon.
The Town of Zebulon shall have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and
immunities conferred and imposed on cities by the Constitution, by the general
laws of the State of North Carolina and by this Charter. The enumeration of
particular powers by the Charter shall not be deemed to be exclusive, and it is
intended that the Town of Zebulon shall have and exercise all powers which,
under the Constitution and the laws of the State of North Carolina, it would be
competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
SEC. 2.1. EXISTING CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate limits of the Town shall be those existing at the time of the
ratification of this Charter and as the same may be altered from time to time
in accordance with law.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 2.2. EXTENSION OF CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
SEC. 3.1. COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall consist of five members to be elected by
the qualified voters of the Town voting at large in the manner provided in
Article IV.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 3.2. MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The Mayor shall be elected by and from the qualified voters of the Town at
large in the manner provided in
Article IV. The Board of Commissioners shall choose one of its members to act
as Mayor Pro Tempore, and he shall perform the duties of the Mayor in the
Mayor’s absence or disability. The appointment of the Mayor Pro Tempore shall
be done at the organizational meeting of the board.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 3.3. TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town of
Zebulon as set forth in Chapter 386 of the 1973 Session Laws of North Carolina,
as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the members of the Town
Board of Commissioners shall hereafter be elected for four-year terms on a
staggered basis as follows: at the regular municipal election to be held in
1977, the two candidates who receive the highest number of votes shall be
elected for four-year terms, while the three candidates who receive the next
highest number of votes shall be elected for two-year terms. Beginning at the
regular municipal election to be held in 1979, and every four years thereafter,
three members of the Board of Commissioners shall be elected to serve for four-
year terms. Beginning at the regular municipal election to be held in 1981, and
every four years thereafter two members of the Board of Commissioners shall be
elected to serve for four-year terms. Beginning at the regular municipal
election to be held in 1977 and every four years thereafter the Mayor of the
Town of Zebulon shall be elected for a four-year term.
   In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of commissioner, the board
shall, by a plurality vote, appoint some qualified person to fill the vacancy
until the next general election, and the person appointed to fill the vacancy
shall serve only until an elected successor takes office. The seats will be
filled as follows from the votes cast at the election: the seats would be
filled by plurality and the seats that would normally be up for election shall
be filled first based on the highest numbers of votes equal to the number of
seats to be filled for full terms and the unexpired term shall be based on the
next highest number of votes.
(This section changed by a vote of the legislature.)
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. passed 2-7-77; Ord. 2004-45, passed
4-5-2004)
ARTICLE IV. ELECTION PROCEDURE
SEC. 4.1. REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Elections shall be held biennially in odd-numbered years on the day set by
general law for municipal elections.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 4.2. ELECTIONS TO BE BY NONPARTISAN PLURALITY METHOD.
   Elections for Mayor and Board of Commissioners shall be by the nonpartisan
plurality method set out in North Carolina General Statute 163-292. All
elections and referendums of the Town of Zebulon shall be held and conducted as
provided by the applicable General Statutes of North Carolina.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE V. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 5.1 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the Town of Zebulon shall be known as the
“council-manager form of government,” as set forth in the General Statutes of
North Carolina subject to the modifications of this charter. Nothing contained
in this charter shall be construed to prevent the form of government of the
Town of Zebulon from being changed as provided by law.
(Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 5.2. TOWN MANAGER.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint an officer whose title shall be
Town Manager and who shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city
government. The Town Manager shall be chosen by the Board of Commissioners
solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with
special reference to actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practice
in respect to the duties of his office as hereinafter prescribed. The Town
Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners and shall
receive such salary as the Board of Commissioners shall fix. In case of absence
or disability of the Town Manager, the Commissioners may designate a qualified
administrative officer of the Town to perform the duties of the Manager during
such absence or disability.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
Editor's note:
   The Town Manager shall exercise those duties set forth in G.S. § 160A-148,
as well as those established by the town from time to time
SEC. 5.3 ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town attorney who shall be an
attorney at law licensed to engage in the practice of law in North Carolina and
who need not be a resident of the Town during his tenure.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 5.4 TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Manager shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Commissioners and maintain in a safe place all
records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the Town, and to perform
such other duties as may be required by law or by the Board of Commissioners or
as may be directed by the Town Manager. The Town Clerk shall receive such
compensation as determined by the Town Manager.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386; Session Laws of 2017, Chapter 386) (Ord.
2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 5.5. TOWN FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Town Manager may appoint, suspend or remove a Town Finance Officer,
whose powers and duties shall be as defined in 'The Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act' of the general laws of North Carolina.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
Editor's note:
   For bond requirements, see G.S. § 159-29
   For provisions concerning the office of Finance Officer, see G.S. § 159-24
SEC. 5.6. TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Board of Commissioners may appoint a Tax Collector whose powers and
duties shall be as defined in Chapter 105 of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 5.7. CONSOLIDATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   The Board of Commissioners may consolidate any two or more of the positions
of Town Manager, Town Clerk, Tax Collector, and any other appointive position,
or may assign the functions of any one or more of these positions to the holder
or holders of any other of these positions.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 5.8. CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the police force
and shall enforce discipline therein.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
Editor's note:
   The Chief of Police is appointed by the Town Manager and is responsible for
the efficiency and discipline of the Police Department, with approval of the
Town Manager
SEC. 5.9. FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be responsible for the efficiency and
discipline of the fire department. The Fire Chief is appointed, suspended or
removed by the Town Manager and is responsible for the efficiency and
discipline of the Fire Department, with approval of the Town Manager.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 5.10. TOWN DEPARTMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may establish such departments to serve the Town
as they deem appropriate.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE VI. LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SEC. 6.1. AUTHORITY TO MAKE LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have authority to make the local
improvements described in this Charter, as in its discretion it may deem
appropriate with or without any petition so to do and to assess the total cost
against the abutting property. The procedure set forth in this Article shall
not be exclusive, but shall be in addition to any other procedure provided by
law.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.2. SEPARATE PROCEEDINGS NOT REQUIRED.
   One or more local improvements may be made in a single proceeding, and
assessments for one or more local improvements may be combined.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.3. DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words and phrases will be used with the following meanings with
reference to local improvements, unless some other meaning is plainly intended.
   (a)   A street is the entire width between property or right-of-way lines of
every way or place, of whatever nature, when any part thereof is dedicated or
open to the use of the public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular
or pedestrian traffic, and whether such portion devoted to traffic be divided
by any railroad, or other utility right-of-way, parkway or in any other manner.
   (b)   A sidewalk is the part of a street which is used or to be used for
pedestrian traffic.
   (c)   A storm sewer is a conduit above or below ground for the passage of
storm water and may include a pumping station and outlet where deemed necessary
and may also include the building of culverts over or the enclosing of streams
where needed to carry off storm water.
   (d)   A sanitary sewer is a conduit, preferably underground, for the passage
of sewage and may include a pumping station and outlet.
   (e)   A water main is a pipe for the passage of Town water for public
hydrants and private and public use and consumption.
   (f)   A lateral is a pipe connecting a storm or sanitary sewer or water main
with the line of adjacent property or the curb line, being either a sewer
lateral or water lateral, but does not include a building connection, that is,
a pipe extending from a lateral at the property line or curb line to the house
or plumbing fixture to be served.
   (g)   A roadway is the part of a street which is used or to be used for
vehicular traffic.
   (h)   The word sewer includes both sanitary and storm sewers unless a
contrary intention is shown.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.4. IMPROVEMENTS DESCRIBED.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have authority to make the following local
improvements:
   (a)   Roadway paving improvements, which include the grading, regrading,
paving, repaving and widening of roadways, or the improvement thereof with any
treatment designed to provide an improved wearing surface with necessary
drainage, sewer inlets, manholes and catch basins and the construction or
reconstruction of retaining walls made necessary by any change of grade
incident to such improvement, and, in any case where the improvement is made,
if the Board so directs, it may include the construction or reconstruction of
curbs, gutters, drains and sidewalks.
   (b)   Water main improvements, which include the laying or construction of
water mains, the relaying where necessary of parts of paved roadways and
sidewalks torn up or damaged by the laying or construction of such mains, and,
in any case where the improvement is made and the Board so directs, the laying
of water laterals.
   (c)   Sanitary sewer improvements, which include the laying or construction
of sanitary sewers, the relaying where necessary of parts of paved roadways and
sidewalks torn up or damaged by the laying or construction of such sewers, and,
in any case where the improvement is made and the Board so directs, the laying
of sanitary sewer laterals.
   (d)   Storm sewer improvements, which include the laying or construction of
storm sewers, the relaying where necessary of parts of paved roadways and
sidewalks torn up or damaged by the laying or construction of such sewers, and,
in any case where the improvement is made and the Board so directs, the laying
of storm sewer laterals.
   (e)   Sidewalk improvements, which include the grading, regrading,
construction, reconstruction and repair of paved or other improved sidewalks,
reconstruction of retaining walls made necessary by the incident to such
improvements, and in any case where the improvement is made, if the Board so
directs, it may include the construction or reconstruction of curbs, gutters
and drains, and the construction or reconstruction of all such portions of
driveways as in the judgment of the Board ought to be laid in the street area.
   (f)   Grass plot improvements, which include the grading and planting of
grass plots in the street.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.5. WATER AND SEWER MAINS BETWEEN STREETS; ASSESSMENT.
   Whenever the Board finds it in the public interest, and it will be more
economical and the interest of the property owners will best be served by
construction of either water or sanitary sewer mains, or both, between streets
rather than in a street, they may be constructed between streets. The cost of
the construction of such water or sewer mains and laterals shall be assessed
according to the street frontage in the same manner and to the same extent that
it would be assessed if the improvements were constructed in a street.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.6. INCLUSION OF MORE THAN ONE IMPROVEMENT IN SINGLE PROCEEDING.
   (a)   Uniformity of cost and kind. Any proceeding may include one or more
local improvements on one or more streets, but all improvements included in one
procedure shall be practically uniform in cost and kind. A proceeding may
include improvements on only one side of a street.
   (b)   Assessment of Costs, Manner and Method. The proceeding may provide for
making any one or more local improvements in or on a street or streets and for
the assessment of the cost thereof, except the Town's portion, wholly against
the property abutting one side of such street or streets or otherwise against
such abutting property as may be designated in the petition, if one, and if not
in the resolution ordering the proceeding, in any of the following cases: (1)
In any case, where there is a park land or unimproved land abutting one side or
a part of one side of a street; or (2) where the land abutting one side or a
part of one side of a street is of such nature or is devoted to such purpose
that a special assessment against it cannot be made, or, if made would probably
exceed the value of the land assessed; or (3) where the owners of all the
property to be assessed agree thereto.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.7. RESOLUTION ORDERING IMPROVEMENTS; PUBLICATIONS.
   (a)   After the Board determines to make the improvements proposed, it shall
adopt a resolution which shall contain:
      (1)   If the improvements are to be made by petition, a finding by the
Board as to the sufficiency of the petition, which finding shall be final and
conclusive.
      (2)   If the improvements are to be made without petition, a finding by
the Board of such facts requiring authorization of improvements without
petition.
      (3)   A general description of the improvements to be made, and the
designation of the street or streets or parts thereof where the work is to be
done.
      (4)   If the improvement directed to be made includes the construction of
water mains or sewers, and in order to provide the mains or sewers in the
street or streets to be improved, it is necessary to extend them beyond the
limits of the street or streets, the resolution shall contain a provision for
the necessary extension of such mains or sewers, and a further provision that
the cost of such extension shall be assessed against the lots or parcels of
land abutting the street or streets in which such extensions are made, but that
assessments shall not be made until such time as the Board shall thereafter
determine by appropriate resolution.
      (5)   If the improvement directed to be made is the paving of a roadway
or part thereof, or the construction of sidewalks, the resolution may, but need
not, contain a direction that the owner of each lot abutting the part of the
street to be improved connect his lot by means of laterals with water mains,
gas or sewer pipes, or any one or more thereof, located in the street adjacent
to his premises in accordance with the requirements governing the laying of
laterals, and that unless the owners cause laterals to be laid on or before a
date specified in the resolution, the date to be not less than 30 days after
the date of the resolution, the Board will cause the same to be laid.
      (6)   A designation of the proportion of the cost of the improvements to
be assessed against abutting property, and of the number of equal annual
installments in which assessments may be paid.
   (b)   Publication and Posting of Notice. The resolution after its passage
shall be published at least once in some newspaper of general circulation in
the Town which is qualified to carry legal notices, or if there be no such
newspaper, the resolution shall be posted in three public places in the Town
for at least five days, except that in any case where the Board directed that
the notice should be served or mailed instead of being published, the
resolution ordering the improvements need not be either published or posted.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.8. DETAILS OF CONSTRUCTION; CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   The Board shall have power to determine the character and type of
construction and of material to be used and to determine any other details of
plan or construction necessary to be determined in making any local
improvements and to determine whether any work to be done by the Town shall be
done by contract or by the Town. The Board shall have power, also, unless
otherwise limited, to determine the number of water, sewer and gas laterals
that shall be laid to any lot on any street to be improved. If the work or any
part thereof is to be done by contract, the Board may let all of the work in
one contract, or it may divide it into several contracts and may let contracts
separately.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.9. DETERMINATION AS TO COST OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Upon completion of the improvements, the Board shall ascertain the total
cost. In addition to other items of cost there may be included therein the cost
of all necessary legal services, the amount of interest paid during
construction, the amount of damages paid or to be paid for injury to property
by reason of any change of grade or drainage, including court costs and other
expenses incidental to the determination of damages, and the cost of retaining
walls, sidewalks or fences built or altered in lieu of cash payment for
property damage, including the cost of moving or altering any building. The
determination of the Board as to the total cost of any improvement shall be
conclusive.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.10. CORNER LOT EXEMPTIONS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have authority to establish schedules of
exemptions from assessments for corner lots when a project is undertaken along
both sides of such lots. The schedules of exemptions shall be based on
categories of land used (residential, commercial, industrial, or agricultural)
and shall be uniform for each category. The schedule of exemptions may not
provide exemption of more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the frontage of
any side of a corner lot, or 150 feet, whichever is greater.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.11. PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT ROLL, CONTENTS, PUBLICATION, POSTING, SERVING
OR MAILING.
   The Board shall cause to be prepared a preliminary assessment roll, on which
shall be entered a brief description of each lot or parcel of land assessed,
the amount assessed against each lot, the name or names of the owner or owners
of each lot as far as the same can be ascertained; provided that a map of the
improvements on which is shown the frontage and location of each affected lot,
together with the amount assessed against each lot and the name or names of the
owner or owners thereof as far as the same can be ascertained, shall be a
sufficient assessment roll. If the resolution directed the making of more than
one improvement, a single preliminary assessment roll for all the improvements
authorized by such resolution shall be sufficient, but the cost of each
improvement to each lot affected shall be shown separately. After the
preliminary assessment roll has been completed, it shall be filed in the office
of the Town Clerk, and there shall be published in some newspaper of general
circulation in the Town which is qualified to carry legal notices, or if there
be no such newspaper, the Town Clerk shall cause to be posted in three public
places in the Town a notice of the completion of the assessment roll, setting
forth a description in general terms of the improvements, and stating the time
fixed for the meeting of the Board for the hearing of objections to the special
assessments, such meeting to be not earlier than ten days after the first
publication or from the date of posting of said notice. Any number of
assessment rolls may be included in one notice. In any case where the
preliminary notice was served or mailed instead of being published, this notice
need not be published or posted but may be served or mailed. The serving or
mailing of notices shall be completed not less than five days prior to the date
fixed for the hearing of the assessment roll, and the return of the person
serving or mailing the same shall, in the absence of fraud, be conclusive that
the same were served or mailed.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.12. HEARING; REVISION; CONFIRMATION; LIEN.
   At the time appointed for that purpose or at some other time to which it may
adjourn, the Board shall hear objections to the preliminary assessment roll of
all persons interested who may appear and offer proof in relation thereto. Then
or thereafter, the Board shall either annul or sustain or modify in whole or in
part the assessment, either by confirming the preliminary assessment against
any or all lots or parcels described thereon, or by cancelling, increasing or
reducing the same. If any property is omitted from the preliminary roll, the
Board may place it on the roll and levy the proper assessment. The Board may
thereupon confirm the assessment roll. Whenever the governing body shall
confirm assessments for local improvements, the Town Clerk shall enter on the
Board minutes and on the assessment roll the date, hour and minute of
confirmation, and from the time of confirmation the assessment shall be a lien
on the property assessed of the same nature and to the same extent as county
and city taxes and shall be superior to all other liens and encumbrances. After
the assessment roll is confirmed, a copy of the same shall be delivered to the
Town Tax Collector.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.13. APPEAL TO SUPERIOR COURT.
   If the owner of, or any person interested in, any lot or parcel of land
against which an assessment is made is dissatisfied with the amount of the
assessment, he may, within 10 days after the confirmation of the assessment
roll, give written notice to the Board that he takes an appeal to the Superior
Court of Wake County, in which cases he shall within 20 days after the
confirmation of the assessment roll serve on the Mayor or Town Clerk a
statement of facts upon which he bases his appeal. The appeal shall be tried as
other actions at law. The remedy herein provided for any person dissatisfied
with the amount of the assessment against any property of which he is the owner
or in which he is interested shall be exclusive.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.14. ERROR IN ASSESSMENT; POWER TO CORRECT; PROCEDURE.
   If it shall appear after confirmation of any assessment roll that an error
has been made, the Town Clerk shall cause to be published one time in some
newspaper of general circulation in the Town, or if there be no such newspaper,
the Town Clerk shall cause to be posted at three public places in the Town a
notice referring to the assessment roll in which the error was made, naming the
owner or owners of the lot or parcel of land affected by the error if the same
can be ascertained, and naming the time and place fixed for a hearing by the
Board for the correction of the error, such meeting not to be earlier than 10
days from the publication or from the date of the posting of the notice. At the
time fixed in the notice or at some subsequent time to which the Board may
adjourn, the Board, after giving the owner or owners of the property affected
and other persons interested therein an opportunity to be heard, may proceed to
correct the error, and the assessment then made shall have the same force and
effect as if it had originally been properly made. No notice and hearing shall
be necessary if the correction does not increase an assessment against any
property not owned by the Town, or if all the property owners affected by the
correction waive notice in writing.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.15. REASSESSMENT.
   The Board shall have the power, when in its judgment there is any
irregularity, omission, error or lack of jurisdiction in any of the proceedings
relating thereto, to set aside the whole of the local assessment made by it and
thereupon to make a reassessment. In such case there shall be included, as a
part of the cost of the improvements involved, all interest paid or accrued on
notes or certificates of indebtedness or bonds issued by the Town to pay the
expenses of such improvement. The proceeding shall, as far as practicable, be
in all respects as in the case of original assessments, and the reassessment
shall have the same force as if it had originally been properly made.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.16. PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF CONFIRMATION OF ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   After the expiration of 20 days from the confirmation of the assessment
roll, the Town Clerk shall cause to be published one time in some newspaper of
general circulation in the Town which is qualified to carry legal notices, or
if there be no such newspaper, shall cause to be posted at three public places
in the Town a notice of confirmation of the assessment roll, and that
assessments may be paid at any time before the expiration of 30 days from the
date of publication or posting of the notice without interest from the date of
confirmation of the assessment roll, but that if such assessment is not paid in
full within said time, all installments thereof shall bear interest until paid
at the rate fixed in the assessment resolution, but not more than eight percent
(8%) per annum from the date of confirmation of the assessment roll.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.17. PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS IN CASH OR BY INSTALLMENTS.
   The property owner assessed shall have the option of paying for improvements
in cash or in not less than two or more than five equal annual installments as
may have been determined in the resolution ordering the improvements. If paid
in installments, installments shall bear interest at the rate fixed in the
assessment resolution, but not more than eight percent (8%) per annum from the
date of confirmation of the assessment roll. If any assessment is not paid in
cash, the first installment with interest shall become due and payable 30 days
after the publication or posting of the notice of confirmation, and one
subsequent installment and interest shall be due and payable on the same day of
the same month in each successive year until the assessment is paid in full;
provided, however, that if the Board shall so direct installments shall become
due and payable on the same date when property taxes of the Town are due and
payable. If any installment with interest is not paid when due, it shall be
subject to the same penalties as are now prescribed by law for unpaid taxes, in
addition to the interest herein provided for. The whole assessment may be paid
at any time by the payment of the full amount due with accrued interest.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.18. PROCEDURE TO ENFORCE PAYMENT; MANDAMUS AGAINST RAILROADS AND STATE
AGENCIES; FORECLOSURE AGAINST INDIVIDUALS.
   Upon the failure of any property owner to pay any installment when due and
payable, all of the installments remaining unpaid shall immediately become due
and payable, and property and rights-of-way may be sold by the Town under the
same rules, regulations, rights of redemption and savings as are now prescribed
by law for the sale of land for unpaid taxes. Unpaid assessments, interest and
penalties owned by railroad companies and the State of North Carolina, its
agencies or subdivisions, may be collected by writs of mandamus issued by the
Superior Court of Wake County. Collection of assessments with interest and
penalties may also be made by the Town by proceedings to foreclose the lien of
assessments as a lien for mortgages is or may be foreclosed under the laws of
the State, and it shall be lawful to join in any bill for foreclosure any one
or more lots or parcels of land, by whomsoever owned, if assessed for an
improvement ordered by the same resolution, after default in the payment of any
installment. The payment of said installment, together with interest and
penalties due thereon and any advertising and legal costs already incurred,
before the lot or parcel of land against which the same is a lien is sold or
said lien is foreclosed, shall bar the right of the Town to sell land or to
foreclose the lien by reason of default.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.19. ASSESSMENT OF COST OF WATER MAIN AND SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   If the resolution ordering the making of any improvement or improvements
included a provision for any necessary extension of a water main or sewer or
sewers beyond the limit of a street or streets, at such time after the
completion of said extension or extensions as in the judgment of the Board
circumstances justify the assessment of the cost thereof, the Board shall cause
a preliminary assessment to be made, and the procedure thereafter to be
followed with respect to such assessment and the force and effect thereof shall
be as already prescribed for other assessments.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.20. APPORTIONMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   In any case where one or more special assessments have been made, and
property has been or is about to be subdivided, and it is desirable that the
assessments be apportioned among the subdivisions of such property, the Board
may, upon application by the owner or owners, apportion the assessments among
the subdivisions. Thereafter, each subdivision shall be relieved of any part of
the original assessment except the part apportioned to the subdivision, and the
part of the original assessment apportioned to any subdivision shall be of the
same force and effect as the original assessment.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.21. CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   No change of ownership of any property or interests therein after the
passage of a resolution ordering the making of a local improvement shall affect
subsequent proceedings, and the improvement may be completed and assessments
made therefor as if there had been no change in ownership.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.22. LANDS SUBJECT TO ASSESSMENT.
   No lands in the town including railroad company lands and rights-of-way and
property of the State of North Carolina, its agencies or subdivisions, shall be
exempt from special assessments except lands belonging to the United States
which are exempt under the provisions of Federal Statutes, and the council and
the officers, trustees or boards of all incorporated or unincorporated bodies
in whom is vested the right to hold and dispose of real property shall have the
right by authority duly given to sign the petition for any local improvements.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.23. PROCEEDINGS IN REM.
   All proceedings for special assessments shall be proceedings in rem, and no
mistake or omission as to the name of any owner or person interested in any lot
or parcel of land affected thereby shall be regarded as a substantial mistake
or omission.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.24. GRASS PLOT AND DRIVEWAY MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner to maintain
any grass plot or driveway between the property line and the curb of a paved
street.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.25. ABEYANCE OF CERTAIN WATER AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   Determination by board; effect. The Board of Commissioners may provide
by resolution that assessments levied against abutting lots or parcels of land
for water main improvements or sanitary sewer improvements, when in its opinion
such improvements may not presently be used by the owner or owners of the
abutting lots or parcels of land, may be held in abeyance without the payment
of any interest thereon until such time as the Board shall determine that any
such assessments shall be paid in accordance with the terms set out in the
confirming resolution. A part of the assessments levied for the improvements
herein set out on a street or streets or portion thereof may be held in
abeyance as herein provided without holding all of said assessments in
abeyance.
   (b)   Statutes of limitations suspended. All statutes of limitations are
hereby suspended during the time that any assessment is held in abeyance
without the payment of interest as provided in subsection (a). Such time shall
not be a part of the time limited for the commencement of action for the
enforcement of the payment of any such assessment, and such action may be
brought at any time within 10 years from the date of the adoption of a
resolution by the Board determining that such assessment shall be paid in
accordance with the terms set out in the confirming resolutions.
   (c)   Retroactive construction prohibited. Nothing herein shall be construed
to revive any right of action which has heretofore been barred by the Statute
of Limitations.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.26. ABUTTING PROPERTY OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   If any lots or parcels of land abutting any local improvements are located
outside the city limits, the Board shall have the power to levy assessments
against such property as if said property were located inside the Town limits,
but may continue and delay the levy of assessments against such property until
the Town limits are extended to include such property, or the Board may provide
that no water or sewer service connections shall be made to such property,
pending the annexation thereof, until all assessments thereon are paid. Upon
annexation, if not paid prior thereto, the Board may levy assessments for such
local improvements against such property, and the procedure therefor shall be
the same as provided in this Charter. Nothing contained in this section shall
be construed to prohibit or restrict the Board of Commissioners and a property
owner from entering into an agreement for payments in lieu of assessments.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.27. ACREAGE CHARGES FOR WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The Board of Commissioners may establish and collect acreage charges for
making connections to the Town water and sewerage systems, both within and
outside the corporate limits, to aid in the financing of new water mains and
sewer outfalls and the replacement or enlargement of existing mains and
outfalls. Such charges shall apply uniformly to all properties to which water
or sewer service is extended subsequent to the establishment of such charges;
provided, the Board may establish higher acreage charges for property to be
developed for commercial, institutional, or industrial use than those
established for property to be developed for other uses, may base acreage
charges for residential development on the number of dwelling units per acre of
land, and may establish higher acreage charges for property located outside the
corporate limits than for property within the corporate limits.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 6.28. SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (a)   Site Plans. The Board of Commissioners may as part of its zoning
regulations require that a site plan be submitted, and approved prior to the
issuance of a building permit for new construction, excluding renovation and
repair of existing structures, and excluding accessory uses and their
structures, unless such renovations and repairs and accessory uses shall cause
an increase in the off-street parking requirement or a change in occupancy as
occupancy is defined by the North Carolina State Building Code. Such local law
shall specify the elements to be included in site plans submitted for approval
in accordance with standards of zoning code; such elements may include, where
appropriate, those relating to off-street parking, driveway access, internal
circulation, screening, signs, landscaping, architectural features, locations
and dimensions of buildings, topography and grading, utilities, drainage
structures, street and sidewalk improvements, loading and service areas, fire
hydrants, and such other elements as may reasonably be related to the health,
safety and general welfare of the community.
   Where appropriate, approval of site plans may be conditioned to include that
street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to or reserved by the public, or
street and utility improvements be made to the same extent as required by the
local subdivision regulations. This provision shall not apply to additions of
less than five percent (5%) of gross floor area on an annual basis unless such
addition causes an increase in the off-street parking requirements or a change
in occupancy as occupancy is defined by the North Carolina State Building Code.
The Board of Commissioners shall prescribe procedures for review and approval
of such site plans to insure that development of property shall conform to
applicable zoning or other relevant laws or regulations, with approvals by
designated Town staff, or the Board of Commissioners. Appeals shall lie from
the staff to the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may require
that site plans be in conformity with previously approved subdivision plans for
the same property; further, in the event of conflict between a requirement for
site plan approval and requirements for previously approved subdivision plans,
the latter shall control.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 9-2-2014)
SEC. 6.29. ROAD OR DRAINAGE PROJECTS FEES.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words in this section are defined as
follows, unless the contrary clearly appears from the context:
      (1)   Capital costs means costs spent for developing new road or public
storm drainage projects or road or public storm drainage improvements; such
costs may include land acquisition, design, and construction, and no other.
      (2)   Road or drainage project mean improvements provided or established
by the Town or in conjunction with other units of government which are required
in addition to those required by the subdivision regulations.
      (3)   Developer means an individual, corporation, partnership,
organization, association, firm, political subdivision, or other legal entity
constructing or creating new construction.
      (4)   Road or drainage project fee means the charge imposed upon new
construction pursuant to the grant of regulatory authority contained herein.
      (5)   New construction means any new development, construction, or
installation that results in real property improvement or which requires a
building permit. This term shall include the installation of a mobile home and
factory built and modular housing. This term shall not include fences,
billboards, poles, pipelines, transmission lines, advertising signs, or similar
structures and improvements, or renovations and repairs, which do not generate
the need for additional or expanded road or drainage projects upon completion
of the new construction.
   (b)   Subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, the Town of Zebulon,
following the adoption of an ordinance or ordinances, may impose and collect a
regulatory fee defined herein as a road or drainage project fee on all new
construction within its Town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (c)   Requirements and limitations.
      (1)   No road or drainage project fee shall be enacted until the Board of
Commissioners has caused to be prepared a report containing: (I) a description
of the anticipated capital costs to the Town of each additional or expanded
road or drainage project; (ii) a description of the relevant characteristics of
construction which give rise to additional or expanded road and drainage
projects, such as population, trip generation, storm water runoff, and flow
characteristics; (iii) a plan for providing one or more road or drainage
projects.
      (2)   Before adopting or amending any road or drainage project fee
ordinance authorized by this section, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a
public hearing. A notice of the public hearing shall be given so as to conform
with G.S. § 160D-601, as it may be amended from time to time. No such ordinance
shall be adopted or amended without receiving the planning commission
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. If the planning commission shall
fail to return a recommendation within 60 days of submittal of an ordinance,
the ordinance shall be returned to the Board of Commissioners and deemed to
have a favorable recommendation as submitted to the planning commission.
      (3)   The amount of each fee imposed and collected hereunder shall be
based upon reasonable and uniform considerations of capital costs to be
incurred by the Town as a result of new construction and shall bear a
reasonable relationship to such capital costs. In addition, the fee shall be
rationally related to and no greater than the amount roughly proportional to
the impact reasonably expected to be generated by the new construction. Such
fee shall be based upon reasonable classifications and rates which shall be
uniformly applied to all members of a class; however, the fees may differ
within zones which may be established depending on the special needs and costs
of road and drainage projects in such zones. To the extent that the developer
installs and dedicates road or public storm drainage improvements for which the
use of the fee is designated, which immediately become the property of the Town
or another unit of government, and which are not otherwise reimbursed by the
Town, the fee shall be reduced by an amount equal to the value of the
improvements or dedications.
      (4)   All monies from fees collected hereunder shall be placed in a
separate trust fund. No expenditures from such trust fund shall be made for any
purpose other than a road or drainage project undertaken by the Town, or by the
Town in conjunction with other units of government. All expenditures from the
trust fund for any road or drainage project shall be in accordance with the
general laws of the State of North Carolina. Road or drainage project fees
shall be spent for those community service facilities authorized by this
section within 10 years after its collection.
(Session Laws of 2015, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2015-09, passed 9-2-2014)
SEC. 6.30. OPEN SPACE PROJECT FEES.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words in this section are defined as
follows, unless the contrary clearly appears from the context:
      (1)   Capital costs means costs spent for the purchase only of land for
open space but not for development thereof.
      (2)   Open space project means the acquisition of any space or area which
is predominantly undeveloped land whose existing openness, natural condition,
or present state of use, if retained, would enhance the present or potential
value of abutting or surrounding urban development.
      (3)   Developer means an individual, corporation, partnership,
organization, association, firm, political subdivision, or other legal entity
constructing or creating new construction.
      (4)   Open space project fee means the charge imposed upon new
construction pursuant to the grant of regulatory authority contained herein.
      (5)   New construction means any new development, construction, or
installation that results in real property improvement or which requires a
building permit. This term shall include the installation of a mobile home and
factory built and modular housing. This term shall not include fences,
billboards, poles, pipelines, transmission lines, advertising signs, or similar
structures and improvements, or renovations and repairs, which do not generate
the need for additional or expanded open space projects upon completion of the
new construction.
   (b)   Subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, the Town of Zebulon,
following the adoption of an ordinance or ordinances, may impose and collect a
regulatory fee defined herein as an open space project fee on all new
construction within its town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (c)   Requirements and limitations.
      (1)   No open space project fee shall be enacted until the Board of
Commissioners has caused to be prepared a report containing: (I) a description
of the anticipated capital costs to the town of each additional or expanded
open space project; (ii) a description of the relevant characteristics of
construction which give rise to additional or expanded open space projects;
(iii) a plan for providing one or more open space projects.
      (2)   Before adopting or amending any open space project fee ordinance
authorized by this section, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public
hearing. A notice of the public hearing shall be given so as to conform with
G.S. § 160D-601, as it may be amended from time to time. No such ordinance
shall be adopted or amended without receiving the planning commission’s
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. If the planning commission shall
fail to return a recommendation within 60 days of submittal of an ordinance,
the ordinance shall be returned to the Board of Commissioners and deemed to
have a favorable recommendation as submitted to the planning commission.
      (3)   The amount of each fee imposed and collected hereunder shall be
based upon reasonable and uniform considerations of capital costs to be
incurred by the town as a result of new construction and shall bear a
reasonable relationship to such capital costs. In addition, the fee shall be
rationally related to and no greater than the amount roughly proportional to
the impact reasonably expected to be generated by the new construction. Such
fee shall be based upon reasonable classifications and rates which shall be
uniformly applied to all members of a class; however, the fees may differ
within zones which may be established depending on the special needs and costs
of open space projects in such zones. To the extent that the developer acquires
and dedicates open space for open space projects for which the use of the fee
is designated, which immediately becomes the property of the town, or another
unit of government, and which is not otherwise reimbursed by the Town, the fee
shall be reduced by an amount equal to the value of the open space dedications.
      (4)   All monies from fees collected hereunder shall be placed in a
separate trust fund. No expenditures from such trust fund shall be made for any
purpose other than an open space project undertaken by the Town, or by the Town
in conjunction with other units of government. All expenditures from the trust
fund for any open space project shall be in accordance with the general laws of
the State of North Carolina. Open space project fees shall be spent for those
community service facilities authorized by this Section 6.30 within 10 years
after its collection.
(Session Laws 2015) (Ord. 2015-09, passed 9-2-2014)
SEC. 6.31. RECREATION PROJECT FEES.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words in this section are defined as
follows, unless the contrary clearly appears from the context:
      (1)   Capital costs means costs spent for the purchase of land and
development of such land for the recreational needs of the citizens.
      (2)   Recreation project means the acquisition of land and development of
the same in those areas needed as a result of new construction and development
in order to enhance the present and potential value of abutting or accessible
property surrounding such urban development and provide a more wholesome place
to live.
      (3)   Developer means an individual, corporation, partnership,
organization, association, firm, political subdivision, or other legal entity
constructing or creating new construction.
      (4)   Recreation project fee means the charge imposed upon new
construction pursuant to the grant of regulatory authority contained herein.
      (5)   New construction means any new development, construction, or
installation that results in real property improvement or which requires a
building permit. This term shall include the installation of a mobile home and
factory built and modular housing. This term shall not include fences,
billboards, poles, pipelines, transmission lines, advertising signs, or similar
structures and improvements, or renovations and repairs, which do not generate
the need for additional or expanded recreational projects upon completion of
the new construction.
   (b)   Subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, the Town of Zebulon,
following the adoption of an ordinance or ordinances, may impose and collect a
regulatory fee defined herein as recreational project fee on all new
construction within its town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (c)   Requirements and limitations.
      (1)   No recreational project fee shall be enacted until the Board of
Commissioners has caused to be prepared a report containing: (I) a description
of the anticipated capital costs to the town of each additional or expanded
recreational project; (ii) a description of the relevant characteristics of
construction which give rise to additional or expanded recreational projects;
(iii) a plan for providing one or more recreational projects.
      (2)   Before adopting or amending any recreational project fee ordinance
authorized by this section, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public
hearing. A notice of the public hearing shall be given so as to conform with
G.S. § 160D-601, as it may be amended from time to time. No such ordinance
shall be adopted or amended without receiving the planning commission’s
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. If the planning commission shall
fail to return a recommendation within 60 days of submittal of an ordinance,
the ordinance shall be returned to Board of Commissioners and deemed to have a
favorable recommendation as submitted to the planning commission.
      (3)   The amount of each fee imposed and collected hereunder shall be
based upon reasonable and uniform considerations of capital costs to be
incurred by the town as a result of new construction and shall bear a
reasonable relationship to such capital costs. In addition, the fee shall be
rationally related to and no greater than the amount roughly proportional to
the impact reasonably expected to be generated by the new construction. Such
fee shall be based upon reasonable classifications and rates which shall be
uniformly applied to all members of a class; however, the fees may differ
within zones which may be established depending on the special needs and costs
of recreational projects in such zones. To the extent that the developer
acquires and dedicates recreational land or recreational facilities for which
the use of the fee is designated, which immediately become the property of the
town, or another unit of government, and which are not otherwise reimbursed by
the Town, the fee shall be reduced by an amount equal to the value of the land
and recreational facilities so dedicated.
      (4)   All monies from fees collected hereunder shall be placed in a
separate trust fund. No expenditures from such trust fund shall be made for any
purpose other than recreation projects undertaken by the town, or by the town
in conjunction with other units of government. All expenditures from the trust
fund for any recreation project shall be in accordance with the general laws of
the State of North Carolina. Recreation project fees shall be spent for those
community service facilities authorized by this Section 6.31 within 10 years
after its collection.
(Session Laws 2015) (Ord. 2015-09, passed 9-2-2014)
SEC. 6.32. IMPLEMENTING.
   (a)   The town is authorized to enact ordinances, regulations, and rules
that are reasonable, necessary or expedient to carry into execution and effect
the authority given by Sections
6.28 through
6.31 of this Charter.
   (b)   The powers conferred by Sections
6.28 through
6.31 of this Charter shall be in addition to all other powers and procedures
authorized by any other general or local law. Assessments, charges, fees, or
rates authorized by any other general or local law shall not be affected by the
provisions of this section and Sections
6.28 through
6.31 of this Charter.
   (c)   The powers conferred by this section and Sections
6.28 through
6.31 of this Charter shall apply to the areas within the Zebulon Town Limits
and the said town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 9-2-2014)
ARTICLE VII. EMINENT DOMAIN
SEC. 7.1. CONDEMNATION; AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE.
   If at any time the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Zebulon should need
to purchase any land within or without the Town limits, deemed necessary for a
public use of the city, or for other purposes authorized by this Charter or
other applicable law, and cannot agree with the owner of such land as to the
compensation to be paid therefor, then the Board of Commissioners of the Town
of Zebulon is hereby specifically authorized and empowered to, in the name of
the Town, condemn either the fee or an easement in any such land, whether the
land be owned by any private person, firm or corporation, or whether it be
owned by any railroad company, power company, telephone company, gas company or
other quasi-public corporation, or whether the land be devoted to private or
public use. The proceedings utilized by the Board of Commissioners for such
condemnation and determination of the compensation to be paid may be any of the
alternative proceedings provided municipalities by the general laws of the
State of North Carolina or those prescribed by Article 9 of Chapter 136 of the
North Carolina General Statutes; provided that the Town of Zebulon shall
possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring the fee or any
lesser interest in properties already devoted to the public use and owned by a
public service corporation, including public utilities as defined in Chapter 62
of the General Statutes, and electric and telephone membership corporations,
only if such acquisition will not prevent or unreasonably impair the continued
devotion to the public use of such properties, and their operation by such
public service corporation.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE VIII. REGULATORY POWERS
SEC. 8.1. SUBDIVISIONS; REQUIRE INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (a)   In connection with subdivision or platting controls, the Board of
Commissioners may require the improvement and grading of streets and the
construction and installation of street pavements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
and water, sewer, surface water drainage and other utility mains as a condition
precedent to approval of the plat. The requirements may provide for tentative
approval of the plat previous to such improvement and installation, but any
such tentative approval shall not be entered on the plat. The requirements may
provide that in lieu of completion of the work and installations prior to final
approval of the plat, the Board may accept a bond, in an amount and with surety
and condition satisfactory to it providing for and securing to the Town the
actual construction and installation of the improvements and utilities within a
period specified by the Board and expressed in the bond. The Town is empowered
to enforce the bond by all appropriate legal and equitable remedies.
Requirements adopted hereunder may be applied throughout the area over which
the Town is authorized by law to exercise platting or subdivision controls.
   (b)   The requirements may provide, in lieu of the completion prior to the
final approval of a plat of such work and installation on land within the area
over which the Town is authorized by law to exercise platting or subdivision
control, for an assessment under this Charter or under Article 8, Chapter 160D
of the General Statutes or other statutory authorization whereby the Town may
do the work and make the installations at the cost of the owners of the
property within the subdivision.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 8.2. APPLICABLE TO PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATIONS.
   All of the provisions of this Article and of any other laws granting
planning, zoning and building regulatory powers to the Town of Zebulon,
together with any ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners of the Town
in the exercise of such powers, shall be applicable to and enforceable against
all public utilities and other public service corporations.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 8.3. PLANNING JURISDICTION.
   The Town of Zebulon shall have jurisdiction for planning and regulation of
development as set forth in Article 2 of Chapter 160D of the North Carolina
General Statutes and may exercise the powers granted by said Article within an
area defined pursuant to G.S. 160D-201extending not more than one mile beyond
the corporate limits of the Town of Zebulon.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE IX. MISCELLANEOUS POWERS
SEC. 9.1. POWERS ADDITIONAL TO OTHER POWERS.
   In addition to the powers now or hereafter granted to municipalities under
the general laws of the State of North Carolina, the Town of Zebulon shall have
the following expressed powers hereby enumerated in the succeeding sections of
this Article.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 9.2. REGULATION OF BUSINESS ON SUNDAYS.
   The Town of Zebulon shall have the power to regulate or prohibit by
ordinance the conduct of business activities on Sundays.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 9.3. OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES UPON CERTAIN PREMISES.
   The Town of Zebulon shall have the power to regulate, by ordinance, the
speed and manner of operation of motor vehicles upon the grounds and premises
of service stations, drive-in theaters, supermarkets, stores, restaurants,
office buildings, or other business or municipal establishments, providing
parking space for customers, patrons, or the public within the corporate limits
of the Town of Zebulon.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 9.4. FORBIDDING ENTRY UPON CERTAIN PREMISES.
   Upon the owner or other person in legal possession of the grounds and
premises of any service station, drive-in theater, supermarket, store,
restaurant, office building, or other business or municipal establishment,
providing parking space for customers, patrons, or the public within the
corporate limits of the Town of Zebulon, providing to the Police Department of
the Town of Zebulon such written authority, any member of the police force of
the Town of Zebulon shall have the authority to forbid any person to remain,
go, or enter upon said grounds and premises to the same extent as the said
owner or other person in legal possession of said premises could do himself.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SEC. 9.5. CEMETERY LOTS; SALE.
   The Town may sell cemetery lots in the Town cemeteries, subject to the rules
and regulations adopted by the Board of Commissioners. All deeds or instruments
conveying title to such lots shall be signed by the Town Manager and need not
be attested.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE X. CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN
SEC. 10.1. PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS; SUIT UPON CLAIMS.
   (a)   All claims or demands against the Town of Zebulon arising in tort or
in contract shall be presented to the Board of Commissioners in writing, signed
by the claimant, his attorney or agent, within 90 days after the claim or
demand is due or the cause of action accrues, and no suit or action shall be
brought thereon within 30 days or after the expiration of 12 months from the
time said claim or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or demand is so
presented within 90 days after the cause of action accrues, and unless suit is
brought within 12 months after the claim or demand is presented, any action
thereon is barred.
   (b)   No action shall be instituted against the Town for damages to or
compensation for real property taken or used by the Town for any public
purpose, or for the ejectment of the Town therefrom, or to remove a cloud upon
the title thereof, unless, within two years after such alleged use, the owner,
his executor, administrator, guardian, or next friend, shall have given notice
in writing to the Board of Commissioners of the claim, stating in the notice
the date that the alleged use commenced, a description of property alleged to
have been used, and the amount of the damage or compensation claimed.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six months after the
termination of his incapacity; provided, that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three years after the occurrence or the infliction of the injury complained of;
or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that renders it
impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if notice of
claim is given on his behalf within six months after termination of the
incapacity, or within three years after the occurrence or the infliction of the
injury complained of, whichever is the longer period. The Town may at any time
request the appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a
potential claim against the Town and known to be suffering from physical or
mental incapacity.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
ARTICLE XI. CHARTER AMENDMENTS
SEC. 11.1. INCORPORATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   As soon as possible after the adjournment of each General Assembly,
the Town Attorney shall present to the Board of Commissioners copies of all
local laws relating to the property, affairs and government of the Town of
Zebulon that were enacted by such General Assembly, whether or not amending in
terms of this Charter, and recommend formal changes in this Charter. Such
recommendations may include suggestions for renumbering or rearranging the
provisions of such laws for providing titles and catch lines, and for such
other changes in arrangement and form that do not change the law, as may be
thought necessary to implement the purposes of this section.
   (b)   After considering the recommendations of the Town Attorney, the
Commissioners may provide for the incorporation of such laws into this Charter.
   (c)   The purpose of this section is to enable the Town to maintain at all
times a current and accurate Town Charter, organized in clear and orderly
fashion and embracing all pertinent local laws relating to the property,
affairs and government of the Town.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 2.
   The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of Zebulon and
to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the property, affairs, and
government of the Town. It is intended to continue without interruption those
provisions of prior acts, which are consolidated into this act, so that all
rights and liabilities that have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 3.
   This act shall not be deemed to repeal, to modify, nor in any manner to
affect any acts validating, confirming, approving, or legalizing official
meetings, actions, contracts, or obligations of any kind.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 4.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 5.
   No provision of this act is intended, nor shall be construed, to affect in
any way, any rights or interest (whether public or private):
   (a)   now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of which
might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provisions of law repealed
by this act.
   (b)   derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in reliance
upon, action heretofore taken (including the adoption of ordinances or
resolutions) pursuant to or within the scope of any provision of law repealed
by this act.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 6.
   No law heretofore repealed expressly or by implication, and no law granting
authority which has been exhausted, shall be revived by:
   (a)   The repeal herein of any act repealing such law, or
   (b)   any provision of this act that disclaims an intention to repeal or
affect enumerated or designated laws.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 7.
   (a)   All existing ordinances and resolutions of the Town of Zebulon and all
existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of the Town of Zebulon
not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall continue in full force
and effect until repealed, modified, or amended.
   (b)   No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative, or otherwise) pending at the effective date of this
act by or against the Town of Zebulon or any of its departments or agencies
shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this act.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 8.
   If any provision of this act or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act
are declared to be severable.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
SECTION 9.
   This act shall become effective upon its ratification. In the General
Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 8th day of May, 1973.
(Session Laws of 1973, Chapter 386) (Ord. 2004-45, passed 4-4-2004)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Effect of repealing ordinance
   
10.12   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.13   Amendments to code
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Altering code
 
   
10.98   Enforcement of ordinances
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipality's general ordinance-making power, see G.S. § 160A-175
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The code of the Town of Zebulon, North Carolina”
and may be so cited.
   (B)   The code may also be cited as “Zebulon town code.”
(1985 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   All words, matters and phrases contained in this code shall, except as
herein otherwise provided, be interpreted in the manner provided by the laws of
the State of North Carolina for the interpretation of like words, matters and
phrases occurring therein, and as far as applicable the provisions contained in
the state laws for the construction of the provisions thereof, shall apply to
the provisions of this code.
(1985 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   The captions of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of the sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the captions, are amended or re-enacted.
(1985 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the town.
   BOND. When a BOND is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   COUNTY. The COUNTY of Wake, in the State of North Carolina, except as
otherwise provided.
   IN THE TOWN. Any territory jurisdiction of which the exercise of its
regulatory power has been conferred on the town by public or private law.
   MONTH. A calendar MONTH.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words “swear” and
“sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARDS. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they
shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in
this town.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part OWNER, joint OWNER,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a
part of the building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real property,
as herein defined.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street, between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the town and
shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between abutting property
lines.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TOWN. The Town of Zebulon, in the County of Wake and the State of North
Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. Includes printing, and any other mode of representing
words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise stated.
(1985 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of the ordinances of the town, the following rules shall
be observed unless this construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the ordinance.
   (A)   And. May be read “or,” and “or” may be read “and,” if the sense
requires it.
   (B)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first and including the last day, and if the last
day is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   (C)   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of the persons or officers, unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in
the law giving the authority.
   (E)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular include the plural and
the plural includes the singular number.
   (F)   Tenses. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
(1985 Code, § 10.05)
Statutory reference:
   Rules of statutory construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of
Commissioners that the sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases of
this code are severable.
   (B)   If any phrase, clause, sentence, division or section of this code is
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions
and sections of this code, since the same would have been enacted by the Board
of Commissioners without the incorporation in this code of any like
unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, division or section.
(1985 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of the ordinances included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
(1985 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1985 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1985 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(1985 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 EFFECT OF REPEALING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed or cause of action
arising under the ordinance repealed.
(1985 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall become effective when enacted unless otherwise provided
therein. Resolutions shall become effective when enacted.
(1985 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein.
   (B)   Where chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof are
repealed by subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from
the code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby; the subsequent
ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be
prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until this code is readopted
as a new code of ordinances by the city.
(1985 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(1985 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(1985 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
(1985 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.98 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   This §
10.98 shall control enforcement unless otherwise specifically provided in a
section or title of this town ordinance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this code or any other town ordinance
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty; except, where the General
Statutes of North Carolina provide specific remedies for violations. Such
remedies available by North Carolina General Statutes to the town for
enforcement of this code shall be in addition to the remedies hereinafter
stated. Where no specific penalty is provided, the violation of any such
provision of this code or any such ordinance shall subject the offender to a
fine in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
The provisions of this code and any other town ordinances may be enforced by
one, all, or any combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this
section.
      (3)   In addition to any civil or criminal penalties set out in this
section, any provision of this code or any other town ordinance may be enforced
by an appropriate equitable remedy issued from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
      (4)   In addition to any civil or criminal penalties set out in this
section, any provision of this code or any other town ordinance that makes
unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced
by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice shall
have jurisdiction to issue such orders. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the Town of Zebulon may apply to the appropriate division of the
general court of justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of
abatement commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or
cease the unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all
respects by the laws and rules governing civil proceedings.
      (5)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of this code,
which is a civil penalty, a duly sworn and authorized officer, may utilize
enforcement discretion and issue either a warning citation or a civil citation.
If a warning citation is issued, it shall specify that a second violation will
result in a civil citation and the appropriate penalty.
      (6)   Upon failure of a violator to obey a warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued and served directly on the violator, their duly
authorized agent, or registered agent if a corporation, in person or posted in
the United States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known
address of the violator. The violation for which the citation was issued must
be corrected by the time the citation is paid; otherwise further citations
shall be issued. Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues
until the prohibited activity is ceased or abated.
      (7)   Officers of the Zebulon Police Department are duly authorized, as
noted in division (A) above, to issue either a Town of Zebulon Civil Citation
or a State of North Carolina Uniform Citation for offenses that may be named
both as a violation of this Code of Ordinances or the General Statutes of the
State of North Carolina. Civil penalties shall be as designated in the adopted
fee schedule of the Town of Zebulon.
      (8)   A duly sworn Code Enforcement Officer of the Zebulon Planning
Department may, as authorized by the Board of Commissioners, issue official
warnings or citations for violations of Planning Department related sections of
the Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   A violator that has received a civil citation may appeal the
citation by completing the appeal notice portion of the civil citation and
returning it to the Police Department within ten calendar days of the issuance
of the citation.
      (2)   Appeals will be heard by an Appeal Hearing Board consisting of a
Police appointee (board chair), a Planning Department appointee, a Town Manager
appointee, and a citizen appointed by the other members of the board. In case
of an absence, an alternate board member may be appointed by the Chief of
Police.
      (3)   Appeal Hearing Board members will be asked to serve a term of not
less than one year and not more than three years.
      (4)   The Appeal Hearing Board will meet quarterly as follows: the second
Thursday of February, May, August and November. If the meeting date should fall
on a holiday the hearing would move to the following Thursday.
      (5)   The ruling of the Appeal Hearing Board is final as it pertains to
the Town of Zebulon.
   (C)   Failure to pay civil penalty.
      (1)   Failure to pay or appeal a civil penalty within ten days may result
in the issuance of a state citation, a criminal summons and/or the initiation
of a collection process and/or a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   Failure to pay a civil penalty within ten days after a responsible
finding by the Appeal Hearing Board will be considered Failure to Pay a Civil
Penalty, (see divisions (A) and (C) in this section).
      (3)   Civil citations are public record, however, are not reported to
individual insurance companies or reflected in criminal or driving records.
However, a conviction in criminal court on a state citation or for failing to
pay the civil penalty would result in a recorded conviction.
      (4)   All costs associated with collection of non-payment of fines are
the responsibility of the person receiving the citation.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 2013-08,
passed 7-18-2012)
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160-175
   Establishment of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-174
   Violations of city ordinances, see G.S. §§ 14-4 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN OFFICIALS; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   (RESERVED)
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN OFFICIALS; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
Town Officials
   
30.01   Attorney
   
30.02   Building Inspector
   
30.03   Director of Public Works
   
30.04   Fire Chief
   
30.05   Mayor
   
30.06   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
30.07   Police Chief
   
30.08   Tax Collector
   
30.09   Town Clerk
   
30.10   Town Budget Officer
   
30.11   Town Finance Officer
   
30.12   Town Manager
Board of Commissioners
   
30.20   Composition; election
   
30.21   Presiding officer
   
30.22   Order of business
   
30.23   Conduct of meetings; times
Statutory reference:
   General provisions for elective and appointive offices, see G.S. §§ 160A-59
through 160A-64
TOWN OFFICIALS
§ 30.01 ATTORNEY.
   For provisions concerning the attorney, see Charter §
5.3.
(1985 Code, § 30.01)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Commissioners to appoint attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 30.02 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   For provisions concerning the Building Inspector, see G.S. § 160D-1102.  See
also §
31.20 below.
(1985 Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   For provisions concerning the Director of Public Works, see
Ch. 50.
(1985 Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be responsible for the
efficiency and discipline of the Fire Department.
(Charter § 5.9)
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Town Manager, subject to the
approval of the Board of Commissioners, and shall have general control of the
Fire Department, its personnel, apparatus and fire alarm system, subject to the
supervision of the Town Manager.
(1985 Code, § 30.04)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 33
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 94
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
§ 30.05 MAYOR.
   For provisions concerning the Mayor, see Charter §§
3.2,
3.3 and
4.2.
(1985 Code, § 30.05)
Statutory reference:
   Disability of Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-70
   Election of Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-66
   General powers of Mayor, see G.S. §§ 160A-67, 160A-69, 160A-71
§ 30.06 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   For provisions concerning the Mayor Pro Tempore, see Charter §
3.2.
(1985 Code, § 30.06)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions for Mayor Pro Tempore when Mayor is disabled, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.07 POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief, see
Chapter 34 and Charter §
5.8.
(1985 Code, § 30.07)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization to appoint Police Chief, see G.S. § 160A-281
   Oath of office, see G.S. § 160A-284
   Powers and duties, see G.S. § 160A-285
§ 30.08 TAX COLLECTOR.
   For provisions concerning the Tax Collector, see Charter §
5.6 and §
110.03.
(1985 Code, § 30.08)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, see G.S. § 105-349
   General duties, see G.S. § 105-350
§ 30.09 TOWN CLERK.
   For provisions concerning the Town Clerk, see Charter §
5.4.
(1985 Code, § 30.09)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see G.S. § 160A-171
§ 30.10 TOWN BUDGET OFFICER.
   For provisions concerning the Town Budget Officer, see G.S. § 159-9. Note
that the Town Manager fulfills the duties of the Town Budget Officer.
(1985 Code, § 30.10)
§ 30.11 TOWN FINANCE OFFICER.
   For provisions concerning the Town Finance Officer, see Charter §
5.5.
(1985 Code, § 30.11)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see G.S. § 159-25
   Fidelity bond required, see G.S. § 159-29
   Finance Officer to be appointed, see G.S. § 159-24
§ 30.12 TOWN MANAGER.
   For provisions concerning the Town Manager, see Charter §
5.2. The Town Manager is required to give a faithful performance bond in the
amount of $10,000.
(1985 Code, § 30.12)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, see G.S. § 160A-147
   Powers and duties, see G.S. § 160A-148
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.20 COMPOSITION; ELECTION.
   For provisions concerning the composition and method of election of the
Board of Commissioners, see Charter §
3.1.
(1985 Code, § 30.20)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Commissioners as governing body, see G.S. § 160A-101(3)
§ 30.21 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners. When there is an equal division on any question, or on the
election of officers, he or she shall determine that matter by his or her vote.
   (B)   He or she shall vote in no other case, unless specifically provided
for in the code. In case of his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall
exercise the duties of Mayor.
(1985 Code, § 30.21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Mayor to vote in cases of tie, see G.S. § 160A-101(8)
§ 30.22 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   When a regular meeting is organized, the order of business shall be as
provided in the rules of procedure adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(1985 Code, § 30.22)
Statutory reference:
   Organization, procedures of meetings, see G.S. §§ 160A-68, 160A-71, 160A-72
§ 30.23 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS; TIMES.
   (A)   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of
the Board of Commissioners shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order if not
covered by the Suggested Rules of Procedure For a City Council published by the
School of Government.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners shall be held on the
first Monday in each month at 7:00 p.m., except when the first Monday in a
given month falls on a legal holiday, in which case the regular meeting for
that month shall be held on the day and time specified by the Board of
Commissioners.
(1985 Code, § 30.23) (Ord. 2020-50, passed 6-1-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Meeting times established, see G.S. § 160A-71
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. § 160A-72
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Financial statements required
Board of Adjustment
   
31.10   Provisions generally
Building Inspection Department
   
31.20   Establishment
Planning Board
   
31.30   Establishment
   
31.31   Members and officers
   
31.32   Meetings; quorum; conflicts of interest
   
31.33   Powers and duties
   
31.34   Compensation
Recreation Department
   
31.59   Establishment; authority
   
31.60   Personnel; administration
   
31.61   Duties
Recreation Department Advisory Board
   
31.62   Establishment; authority
   
31.63   Membership
   
31.64   Duties
Tree Board
   
31.80   Establishment
   
31.81   Membership; term of office
   
31.82   Compensation
   
31.83   Duties and responsibilities
   
31.84   Organization; meetings; quorum; voting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED.
   All boards, commissions and the like that receive town funds shall make
written financial statements to the Town Manager quarterly and at other times
as requested by the Town Manager.
(1985 Code, § 31.01)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 31.10 PROVISIONS GENERALLY.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Adjustment, see the Unified
Development Ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 31.10)
BUILDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Building Inspection Department is required to be established under one of
the options set forth in G.S. § 160D-1102.  For provisions concerning the
enforcement of the building regulations of the town, see
Chapter 150.
(1985 Code, § 31.20)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be a Town Planning Board, established and continued under the
authority of G.S. §§ 160D-301 et seq.
(1985 Code, § 31.30)
§ 31.31 MEMBERS AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Planning Board may consist of seven members. Five members shall be
citizens living within the corporate limits of the municipality and two members
shall be residents of the county living within the area of municipal
extraterritorial jurisdiction. The members residing within the municipality
shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the town and the members
residing within the area of municipal extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners, on receipt of a letter from the
Clerk to the Board of Commissioners requesting that the appointments be made.
In the event the County Board of Commissioners fails to make the appointments
requested within 90 days of dispatch of the resolution, the Town Board of
Commissioners shall make the appointments.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed for terms of three years with terms
expiring on June 30. They shall serve until the expiration of their terms or
until their successors have been appointed. There will be no term limits for
those serving on the Planning Board.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and may create and fill
other offices as it may deem necessary. The term of officers shall be one year
or until successors shall have been elected and installed, with eligibility for
re-election.
   (D)   (1)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms
shall be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the Board of
Commissioners of the town if the vacancy is of a member residing within the
municipality and by the Board of Commissioners of the county if the vacancy is
of a member residing within the area of extraterritorial municipal
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Vacancies in officers’ positions prior to expiration of terms shall
be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the Planning Board.
   (E)   Members of the Planning Board shall hold no other official municipal
government position except on a zoning board, zoning board of adjustment or
housing authority board. Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Planning
Board is expected of all Planning Board members.
   (F)   A member may be removed by the Board which appointed the member for
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
   (G)   Regular members of the Planning Board may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners at any time for: failure to attend three consecutive meetings,
failure to attend 70% or more of the meetings within any 12-month period, or
any good cause related to the performance of duties. Upon request of the member
proposed for removal, the Board of Commissioners may hold a hearing on the
removal before it becomes effective.
(1985 Code, § 31.31) (Ord. 2010-36, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2015-29, passed 6-1-
2015; Ord. 2021-36, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 31.32 MEETINGS; QUORUM; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business
and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of its resolutions,
discussions, findings and recommendations. That record shall be a public
record. The Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
   (B)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of actual membership excluding
vacant seats. All members, both those living within the town limits and those
living within the extraterritorial area, shall have voting power on all matters
of business.
   (C)   Any member who is a party in interest to matters under consideration
by the Board shall declare that interest prior to a discussion of the Board on
the question, and shall abstain from voting on the question. However, this
provision shall not prohibit those members from participation in discussions of
the Board on those matters prior to a vote.
(1985 Code, § 31.32) (Ord. 2015-29, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 31.33 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Board to make
comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future
developments. The Board shall prepare those plans for physical, social and
economic development as will best promote the public health, safety, morals,
conveniences and the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the
development of the town. The Board shall have the powers and duties given it by
the General Statutes of the state and the Board of Commissioners of the town,
including but not limited to the power to:
      (1)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      (2)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
      (3)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving objectives;
      (4)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (5)   Advise the legislative body concerning the use and amendment of
means for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners of the
town may direct;
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Commissioners of
the town may direct;
      (8)   Conduct those public hearings as may be required to gather
information necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of a
development plan for the town; and
      (9)   Promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, and to that end it may publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and may employ other means of publicity and education as it may
deem necessary.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have no power to incur any debt or obligation
on behalf of the town nor shall it have any power to make expenditure of funds
of the town unless the funds are specifically provided for in the budget of the
town and appropriation made for those purposes by the Board of Commissioners of
the town, or unless the incurring of another obligation is otherwise approved
by the Board of Commissioners of the town.
(1985 Code, § 31.33)
§ 31.34 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Board shall serve without compensation. Members
or employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Planning Board,
may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning institutes or hearings
on pending planning legislation.
(1985 Code, § 31.34)
RECREATION DEPARTMENT
§ 31.59 ESTABLISHMENT; AUTHORITY.
   There shall be a Parks and Recreation Department for the town, established
and continued under the authority of North Carolina General Statutes.
(1985 Code, § 31.59)
§ 31.60 PERSONNEL; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Parks and Recreation Department shall consist of the
Recreation Director and as many employees of the Recreation Department as the
Town Manager shall from time to time determine, and as many volunteer
assistants as the Town Manager may deem necessary, in his or her judgment, to
appoint for special purposes.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall have general control of the Parks and
Recreation Department, and may at any time for cause, suspend from employment
any member of the Parks and Recreation Department.
   (C)   Establishment of Recreation Department authorized, G.S. § 160A-350 and
§
31.60 of this code.
(1985 Code, § 31.60)
§ 31.61 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Parks and Recreation Department to establish and
conduct a system of supervised recreation that will provide activities that are
diversionary in character and aid in promoting entertainment, pleasure,
relaxation, instruction and other physical, mental and cultural development and
leisure time experiences for the citizens of the town.
(1985 Code, § 31.61)
RECREATION DEPARTMENT ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.62 ESTABLISHMENT; AUTHORITY.
   There shall be a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board for the town,
established and continued under the authority of the general statutes of the
state.
(1985 Code, § 31.62)
§ 31.63 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   The Advisory Board shall consist of seven members. In making the
appointment, the Board should ensure that the diversity of the community is
represented on the Advisory Board taking into consideration gender, age and
racial characteristics of the town community, as well as making sure that
appointees live within the corporate limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the town.
      (2)   Members shall be appointed for terms of three years with terms
expiring on June 30. Appointments to the Board shall be staggered so that no
more than three members’ terms will expire in the same year. They shall serve
until the expiration of their terms or until their successors have been
appointed. The members shall serve without compensation. Vacancies in the
Commission shall be filled by appointment of the Board of Commissioners. There
will be no term limits for those serving on the Parks and Recreation Advisory
Board.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, at its first meeting, shall
appoint from among its members a Chairperson and other officers as may be
deemed proper for the conduct of its business and shall adopt rules and
regulations to govern its procedures.
(1985 Code, § 31.63) (Ord. 2010-36, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 31.64 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board to assist the
Parks and Recreation Department by making recommendations for the most
efficient and improved manner to provide quality recreation for the citizens of
the town.
(1985 Code, § 31.64)
TREE BOARD
§ 31.80 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Town Tree Board under the authority of the
general statutes of the state.
(Ord. 2006-42, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 31.81 MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Membership on the Tree Board shall consist of the membership appointed
to the Planning Board.
   (B)   Members will serve the same term as that of the Planning Board
members.
(Ord. 2006-42, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 31.82 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2006-42, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 31.83 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, develop and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in
parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan will be presented
annually to the Board of Commissioners and upon their acceptance and approval
shall constitute the official comprehensive town tree plan.
   (B)   The Tree Board shall promote and supervise the establishment of a tree
inventory for street and park trees. The inventory shall be updated with the
results of ground inspections every three years.
   (C)   The Tree Board, when requested by the Board of Commissioners shall
consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon special matter
or question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 2006-42, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 31.84 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; QUORUM; VOTING.
   The Tree Board shall have the same organization and requirements as that of
the Planning Board in regard to minutes, quorum and proceedings.
(Ord. 2006-42, passed 4-3-2006)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   General provisions
§ 32.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   For the provisions concerning elections, see Charter §§
4.1 and
4.2.
(1985 Code, § 32.01)
Cross-reference:
   Election of Board of Commissioners, see Charter §
3.1
   Election of Mayor, see Charter §
3.2
Statutory reference:
   Conduct of municipal elections, see G.S. §§ 163-291 et seq.
   Time of municipal elections and primaries, see G.S. § 163-279
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Membership
   
33.02   Duty of Chief and firefighters in case of fire
   
33.03   State Volunteer Fire Department
   
33.04   Rural fire departments
   
33.05   State mandated fire inspections
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief, see §
30.04
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 94
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish Fire Department, see G.S. § 160A-291
   Duties of firefighters, see G.S. § 160A-291
   Firefighters' immunity from prosecution, see G.S. § 160A-293
§ 33.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   Members of the Fire Department shall be selected on a voluntary basis by the
Fire Chief, subject to approval of the Town Manager, and shall be paid the fees
as shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
(1985 Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 DUTY OF CHIEF AND FIREFIGHTERS IN CASE OF FIRE.
   (A)   Whenever a fire shall occur in the town, it shall be the duty of the
Fire Chief or his or her designee to report immediately to the place of the
fire and take active charge of the fighting thereof.
   (B)   It shall in those cases be the duty of the members of the Fire
Department to report immediately to the scene of the fire and participate in
the fighting thereof in accordance with the instructions of the Fire Chief or
his or her assistant.
   (C)   The members of the Fire Department may also provide medical responder
service and vehicle extraction as directed in the Department standard operating
guidelines.
(1985 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 2004-36, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 33.03 STATE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby accepts and endorses the provisions of
G.S. §§ 58-80-1 et seq., inclusive, pertaining to the establishment and
operation of the State Volunteer Fire Department.
(1985 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 RURAL FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby accepts and endorses the provisions of
G.S. §§ 69-25.1 to 69-25.16, inclusive, pertaining to the establishment and
operation of a Rural Fire Department in the town area, and directs that the
Fire Chief and the Fire Department cooperate in the valid operations of the
Rural Fire Department to the extent that cooperation does not interfere with
firefighting and fire protection within the corporate limits of the town.
(1985 Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.05 STATE MANDATED FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for implementation and administration of
the current North Carolina Fire Prevention Code. The inspection schedule shall
be followed in accordance with the requirements of the current North Carolina
Fire Prevention Code.
(1985 Code, § 33.05)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Personnel and administration
   
34.02   Uniforms
   
34.03   Duties
   
34.04   Authority of Chief of Police to appoint reserve police officers
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Police Chief, see Charter §
5.8 and §
30.07
Statutory reference:
   Minimum qualifications for employment as law enforcement officers, see G.S.
Ch. 17C
§ 34.01 PERSONNEL AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief and as many
police officers as the Board of Commissioners shall from time to time
determine, and as many special police officers as the Town Manager may deem
necessary, in his or her judgment, to appoint for special purposes.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall have general control of the Police Department,
and may, at any time for cause suspend from duty any member of the police
force.
(1985 Code, § 34.01)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of police force authorized, see G.S. § 160A-281
§ 34.02 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and other police officers shall wear the uniforms
as shall be prescribed by the Town Manager and the Police Chief and shall keep
them in neat condition.
   (B)   Upon discharge or resignation or dismissal, they shall surrender the
uniforms when the uniforms have been purchased by the town for their use.
(1985 Code, § 34.02)
§ 34.03 DUTIES.
   Duties of police officers shall be as follows:
   (A)   To preserve public peace, prevent crime, detect and arrest offenders,
suppress riots and unlawful gatherings which obstruct the free passage of
public streets, sidewalks, parks and public places;
   (B)   To protect the rights of persons and property;
   (C)   To regulate the movement of pedestrians and vehicles in the streets,
bridges, parks and public squares;
   (D)   To provide proper police attendance at the location of fires as they
may occur in the town;
   (E)   To observe carefully and inspect all places of public amusement and
all places of business having license to carry on the business and to suppress
and restrain all unlawful and disorderly conduct or practices therein;
   (F)   To enforce penalties for the violation of laws and of provisions of
this code and other ordinances of the town;
   (G)   To arrest all persons guilty of violating any law or any provisions of
this code or other ordinances of the town;
   (H)   To prevent as far as possible any injury to town property, buildings,
streets and sidewalks;
   (I)   To report to the Public Works Director any repairs needed by any
public property;
   (J)   To serve all processes issued to them in accordance with the
established procedures and recognized legal requirements in the state; and
   (K)   To perform any and all other duties that may be assigned to them by
the Chief of Police.
(1985 Code, § 34.03)
§ 34.04 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE TO APPOINT RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to appoint certified reserve
police officers. When called to duty by the Chief of Police or the Chief’s
designee, reserve police officers shall have all of the powers and duties of
permanent sworn officers of the Police Department.
   (B)   Reserve police officers shall be subject to all policies and
procedures contained in the rules and regulations pertaining to them, and
otherwise to the rules and regulations pertaining to permanent law enforcement
employees of the Town of Zebulon.
   (C)   Reserve police officers shall receive no compensation for their
services, but will be covered by the North Carolina Workers’ Compensation Act,
being G.S. §§ 97-1 et seq., and general liability insurance policy for actions
or injuries occurring in the line of duty commensurate with the coverage
afforded to permanent full-time employees of the town. Reserve police officers
will be subject to disciplinary action or dismissal by the Chief of Police with
or without cause.
   (D)   The appointment of more than five reserve officers must be approved by
the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2004-49, passed 6-7-2004)
CHAPTER 35: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Authority to purchase apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment
   
36.02   Procedures for disposing of personal property valued at less than
$5,000
   36.03   Petty cash as a form of payment
§ 36.01 AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE APPARATUS, SUPPLIES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Grant of authority. Subject to the restrictions and conditions
hereinafter provided, when purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials or
equipment for use by the town, in addition to the authority as may be provided
by law and/or otherwise delegated by the Board of Commissioners the Town
Manager shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications
setting forth a complete description of the items to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and/or requirements therefor;
      (2)   Include, where appropriate, in specifications for the items to be
purchased an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified personal
property owned by the town;
      (3)   Advertise, or otherwise secure bids, for the items, if required
under applicable law;
      (4)   Award contracts for the purchase of the items and, where
applicable, award contracts for the purchase of the items and the sale of
trade-in property;
      (5)   Reject bids;
      (6)   Readvertise to receive bids;
      (7)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements;
      (8)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements; and
      (9)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract(s).
   (B)   Report. At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners following
the award of any contract pursuant to this section, the Town Manager shall
submit a report to the Board of Commissioners summarizing the bids received and
the contracts awarded. The report shall be included in the minutes of the
meeting at which it is received.
   (C)   Extent of authority. Except in cases of sole source purchases and
cases of purchases from established contracts pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(g),
unless otherwise provided by law, the provisions of this section shall apply to
the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment requiring the
estimated expenditure of municipal funds in an amount not to exceed $30,000 for
any one item or group of similar items.
   (D)   No limitation of other authority. The provisions of this section are
not intended to limit, restrict or revoke, in any manner authority otherwise
granted and/or delegated to the Town Manager by statute, law or action of the
Board or Commissioners.
   (E)   Appropriation required. No purchase shall be made by the Town Manager
under authority of this section unless an appropriation for that purpose has
been authorized in the annual budget, or by supplemental appropriation or
budget appropriation amendment duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Application of General Statutes. In acting pursuant to the authority
delegated by this section, the Town Manager shall comply with the requirements
of G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8, as from time to time amended, modified, supplemented,
revised or superseded, the same extent as would have otherwise applied to the
Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S.
§ 143-129(a).
(1985 Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 PROCEDURES FOR DISPOSING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN
$5,000.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus
personal property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or
her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interest of the town would best be served by disposing of the
property.
   (B)   The Town Manager may dispose of any surplus personal property by any
means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 12. The sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this section and that record shall generally describe the property
sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount
of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(1985 Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.03 PETTY CASH AS A FORM OF PAYMENT.
   The use of petty cash as a form of payment expedites minor purchases and
minimizes accounting costs. Expenditures of $50 or less (including sales tax)
can be made through the use of petty cash. Petty cash shall only be used when
the expenditure is clearly for a public purpose as defined by the North
Carolina Constitution, and the individual initiating its use is certain that
the funds have been appropriated. Petty cash shall not be used for purchases
that exceed the $50 limit without the prior approval of the Finance Director or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 3-6-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
      
51.   (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
50.01   Adoption by reference
§ 50.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Zebulon that
Chapter 50 of the Zebulon code of ordinances be replaced entirely to the extent
necessary to comply with the merger with the City of Raleigh Utility Ordinance
Part 8, Chapter 2, necessary to comply with the merger agreement. This document
is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out
at length herein.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-13-2006)
CHAPTER 51: (RESERVED)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   (RESERVED)
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Applicability
   
70.04   Herding and driving animals
   
70.05   Certain emergency vehicles exempted from compliance
   
70.06   Order to move standing vehicle
   
70.07   Obedience to police
   
70.08   Authority of police in special cases
   
70.09   Traffic-control devices
Motor Vehicle Licenses
   
70.15   Motor vehicle license required
   
70.16   Public utilities
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate traffic, see G.S. § 160A-300
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This code may be known and cited as the Traffic Code of the Town of Zebulon.
(1985 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used in this code have the meaning respectively ascribed
to them by G.S. Ch. 20.
(1985 Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 APPLICABILITY.
   Every person propelling a push cart on a roadway, driving a draft animal,
riding a horse, mule, pony or other mount, riding a bicycle, and operating any
vehicle with or without a motor on the streets and roadways of the town shall
be subject to the provisions of this code, except as to those provisions of
this code which by their nature can have no application.
(1985 Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals, see G.S. § 20-171
§ 70.04 HERDING AND DRIVING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to herd or drive any horse, cattle or other livestock
upon the streets and roadways of the town unless each animal is safely secured
with a halter or otherwise under the control and in charge of an attendant.
(1985 Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
§ 70.05 CERTAIN EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPTED FROM COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this code regulating the operation, standing and
parking of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as enumerated
in G.S. § 20-145, except in the performance of duty an emergency vehicle
operator may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed posted speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger
life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
like vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the
rights and safety of others.
(1985 Code, § 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ORDER TO MOVE STANDING VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to fail to
move it for the convenience of other vehicles passing by, on the order of any
police officer. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of the vehicle
to allow it to stand on the street in a manner and at places so as to cause
obstruction to traffic.
(1985 Code, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer.
(1985 Code, § 70.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Obligation to obey peace officers, see G.S. § 20-114.l
§ 70.08 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when it is necessary to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct
traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter.
(1985 Code, § 70.08)
§ 70.09 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with this code,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions
granted in this code to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals installed as
provided in this code, exhibiting the word “Go,” “Caution,” “Stop,” or
exhibiting different colored lights successively, the following colors and
words, lights and arrows in lights shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   “GO” or a green light. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
proceed straight through, or (unless a sign or arrow in light prohibits the
turn) may turn right or left. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
the signal is exhibited;
      (2)   “CAUTION” or a yellow light, when appearing immediately or
coincidentally with the green or “GO” signal. Vehicular traffic facing the word
or light shall stop and remain until faced by a green or “GO” signal
illuminated alone;
      (3)   “STOP” or a red light. Any person operating a vehicle facing the
word or light shall bring the same to a stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk or boundary of an intersection or at another point as may be
indicated by a limit line, and shall remain standing until a plain green light
or green arrow, or the word “GO” is shown illuminated alone; provided, however,
at certain intersections in the city where signs have not been erected by the
Police Department indicating that a right turn is not permitted on a red light,
it shall not be a violation of this section for a person so operating a motor
vehicle to make a right turn after stopping, but nothing in this division shall
relieve any person operating a motor vehicle from the duty of proceeding with
due caution and circumspection under the conditions then existing to avoid
colliding with any pedestrian or motor vehicle lawfully using the intersection;
and
      (4)   Flashing signals. When a yellow lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles approaching the traffic-control
device shall slow down, and proceed with caution. When a red lens is
illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles approaching the
traffic-control device shall come to a complete stop and shall proceed through
the light only when they can do so in safety.
(1985 Code, § 70.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see
Ch. 74, Sch. III
Statutory reference:
   Authority to erect traffic-control devices, see G.S. § 20-169
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSES
§ 70.15 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Self-propelled motor vehicle cited for ad valorem tax purposes in the
town shall pay an annual fee as set forth by the Town of Zebulon Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The annual payment shall be collected by County Tax Collector and the
tax shall authorize the use of the vehicle from July 1 of the listing year
through June 30 of the following year.
(1985 Code, § 70.15)
§ 70.16 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Any business entity regulated by the state and exempt from listing ad
valorem property tax property with the County Tax Office shall still be liable
for the tax imposed by this code. Any like business shall notify the Revenue
Collector of the town of its exempt status and shall make its license payments
directly to the Revenue Collector.
(1985 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Until July 1, 1986, the violation of any provision of this code, or of
any provisions of any restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by
this code, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 1986, the violation of any provision of this code,
or of any provision of any restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized
by this code (except as provided in division (C)) shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   Effective July 1, 1986, the violation of any provision of this code or
any provision of any restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this
code regulating the operation or parking of vehicles, shall constitute an
infraction punishable upon conviction by a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4) (1985 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Obstruction of traffic
   
71.02   Speed restrictions
   
71.03   Speed restriction on parking lots
   
71.04   Limitation on backing
   
71.05   Turning at channelized intersections
   
71.06   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.07   Riding upon sidewalks
   
71.08   Driving through funeral processions
   
71.09   Riding outside vehicle prohibited
   
71.10   Interference with view and control of driver
Cross-reference:
   Speed of vehicles in cemeteries, see §
92.07
Statutory reference:
   Municipality's authority to exercise control over streets, see G.S. § 160A-
296
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for a driver to enter any intersection or a marked
crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(1985 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway or street at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in excess of 20 mph in any
business district.
(1985 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed restrictions, see
Ch. 74, Sch. IV
Statutory reference:
   Municipality's right to regulate speeds, see G.S. § 20-141
§ 71.03 SPEED RESTRICTION ON PARKING LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive a motor vehicle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing upon the grounds and
premises, including any driveway, road, roadway, street or alley upon any
grounds and premises, of any public or private hospital, school, church,
institution maintained and supported by the state, the town, or any of their
subdivisions, service station, drive-in theater, supermarket, store, shopping
center, restaurant or office building, or any other business or municipal
establishment, providing parking space for customers, patrons or the public,
within the town.
(1985 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 LIMITATION ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection or over
a crosswalk and shall not in any event or at any place back a vehicle unless
the movement can be made in safety.
(1985 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 TURNING AT CHANNELIZED INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 20-169, on a street at any intersection
where traffic has been channelized by lines painted on the street, or direction
of traffic is indicated by arrows painted on the street, drivers of vehicles
shall observe the direction of every like painted sign, and in preparation for
a turn before approaching the intersection shall, with proper regard for the
safety of others using the street, move into the proper allocated lane at least
50 feet before reaching the intersection, and shall make no turn to either
right or left unless within a lane in which the turn is permitted.
(1985 Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to reaching the sidewalk, or the sidewalk
areas extending across any alleyway, and, upon entering the roadway, he or she
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1985 Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 RIDING UPON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands on the handlebars, nor shall any person ride a bicycle upon
any sidewalk, or walkway, within the town.
(1985 Code, § 71.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle may be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols and ambulances, and only if the same are
responding to calls.
(1985 Code, § 71.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give signals as
are by law required, and no person shall hang onto any vehicle whatsoever.
(1985 Code, § 71.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 INTERFERENCE WITH VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than four persons including the driver to ride in the
front or driver’s seat.
(1985 Code, § 71.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.02   Parking near corners in business district
   
72.03   Parking limitations on certain trucks
   
72.04   Automobiles
   
72.05   Parking exceeding time limitations
   
72.06   Handicapped parking regulations
   
72.07   Fire lane violations
   
72.08   Enforcement
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking limitations, see
Ch. 75, Sch. II
Statutory reference:
   Municipality's authority to regulate traffic, see G.S. §§ 160A-301 and 160A-
302
§ 72.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
upon a street, or alley, in a manner or under conditions so as to leave
available for free movement of vehicular traffic less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the
actual unloading of passengers or when necessary to obey traffic regulations or
signs and signals, or signals of a police officer. For purposes of this
division (A) the term TEMPORARILY shall mean for no longer than 15 minutes.
   (B)   Whenever signs authorized by the Board of Commissioners or the Chief
of Police are erected or painted on the street which indicate no-parking zones,
the driver of a vehicle shall obey the regulatory indications.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
on any street within ten feet of the right-of-way of another street, within
five feet along the street in either direction from a fire hydrant, in front of
a driveway, alleyway or theater or within the right-of-way of any railroad.
   (D)   Temporary no parking or other regulatory signs may be authorized by
the Board of Commissioners or the Chief of Police. Violations may be enforced
by the issuance of a civil or state citation.
(1985 Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2013-10, passed 7-18-
2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   No parking, see
Ch. 75, Sch. I
§ 72.02 PARKING NEAR CORNERS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall park any motor vehicle within 20 feet of any corner
within the business district of the town.
   (B)   No part of any motor vehicle when parked shall be within 20 feet of
the street corner.
(1985 Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 2013-10, passed 7-18-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN TRUCKS.
   (A)   A COMMERCIAL VEHICLE is defined as any self-propelled or towed vehicle
that is operated in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise
or any vehicle with lettered signage designating a commercial business.
   (B)   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR) means the value specified by the
manufacturer as the loaded weight of a single motor vehicle.
   (C)   GROSS COMBINATION WEIGHT RATING (GCWR) means the value specified by
the manufacturer as the loaded weight of a combination (articulated) motor
vehicle. In the absence of a value specified by the manufacturer, GCWR will be
determined by adding the GVWR of the power unit and the total weight of the
towed unit and any load thereon.
   (D)    More specifically, commercial vehicles transporting passengers or
property when the vehicle:
      (1)   Has a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more
than 14,000 pounds or a manufacturer’s gross combination weight rating (GCWR)
of more than 26,000 pounds; or
      (2)   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the
driver; or
      (3)   Is of any size and is used in the transporting of materials found
to be hazardous and in amounts requiring the motor vehicle to be placarded.
   (E)   Commercial vehicle restrictions in non-residential districts.
      (1)   Commercial vehicles may park in the front of a business for a
period not to exceed two hours during any 24-hour period for the purpose of
loading and unloading.
      (2)   Overnight parking of commercial vehicles shall be done in areas
designated for commercial vehicles. To the extent possible, commercial vehicles
should park in the rear portion of the business, in an enclosed structure, or
in an area screened from the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Areas with a zoning classification or designation of industrial
shall be exempt from the commercial vehicle restrictions.
   (F)   Commercial vehicle restrictions in residential districts.
      (1)   A maximum of one commercial vehicle that does not exceed the
standards set forth in division (D) above may be parked on any residentially
zoned lot.
      (2)   Moving vans may park in residential areas for a period not to
exceed 48 hours for the purpose of loading and unloading.
      (3)   Commercial vehicles may be parked on any lot in a residential zone
for construction purposes pursuant to a valid development permit.
      (4)   Regardless of size, semi-trucks and/or trailers, dump trucks,
concrete mixer trucks are prohibited from parking at residentially zoned
properties.
   (G)   No person shall park or store a commercial vehicle overnight on a
publicly owned street, within a public right-of-way or within a publicly owned
or operated parking area. This section shall not apply to the parking of
vehicles owned or operated by federal, state, or local government authorities.
   (H)   Commercial vehicles meeting the following parking limitations shall be
exempt:
      (1)   While expeditiously loading or unloading passengers, freight,
materials or merchandise between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Vehicles and equipment engaged in street construction, maintenance
and repair, or the construction, maintenance or repair of public service
utilities;
      (3)   While effecting emergency repairs when a vehicle is so disabled as
to render it unsafe to proceed further; and
      (4)   Vehicles serving as emergency vehicles.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle used, manufactured or designed
for transporting toxic or explosive materials or flammable liquids to park in
any area designated as a residential district on the official zoning map of the
town.
(1985 Code, § 72.03) (Am. Ord. 2009-24, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 2013-10, passed
7-18-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 AUTOMOBILES.
   Whenever evidence that any automobile, truck or other vehicle was found to
be parked in violation of a Town of Zebulon ordinance, it shall be prima facie
evidence that the vehicle was parked and/or left in the space by the person,
firm or corporation in whose name the vehicle is registered and licensed
according to the North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 72.05 PARKING EXCEEDING TIME LIMITATIONS.
   Whenever signs authorized by the Board of Commissioners or the Chief of
Police are erected or painted which indicate a time limitation for parking in a
particular space or area, the driver of a vehicle shall obey regulatory
signage.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 72.06 HANDICAPPED PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle in a space
designated with a legally erected or painted sign designating such parking for
handicapped persons when the vehicle does not display a distinguishing license
plate or temporary windshield placard.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not qualifying for the rights and
privileges extended to handicapped persons to exercise or attempt to exercise
such rights or privileges by the unauthorized use of a distinguishing license
plate or temporary windshield placard.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle so as to
obstruct a curb ramp or curb cut for handicapped persons as provided by the
North Carolina Building Code designated in G.S. § 136-44.14.
   (D)   This section is enforceable in all public vehicular areas.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 72.07 FIRE LANE VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall park or permit to stand any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon any public vehicular area, street, highway or roadway in any
area designated as a fire lane. This includes designated fire lanes in shopping
centers, mall parking lots, and all other public vehicular areas. Persons
loading or unloading supplies or merchandise may park temporarily in a fire
lane as long as the vehicle is not left unattended. The prima facie rule of
evidence noted in §
72.04 shall apply in violations of this section.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 72.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this chapter shall be enforceable in all public vehicular
areas.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2012, violations of §§
72.04 and
72.06 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 2012, unless otherwise provided in §
72.99, violations of
Chapter 72 shall, subject the offender to civil penalties of not more than $50.
Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, all criminal penalties for these violations as set
out in G.S. § 14-4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties may be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the nature of the debt.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 7-18-2012)
CHAPTER 73: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop signs
   
II.   Yield right-of-way signs
   
III.   Traffic-control devices
   
IV.   Speed restrictions
   
V.   No vehicular traffic
   
VI.   No U-turns
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
   When signs have been erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person operating a vehicle to fail to stop at a “STOP” sign as required by
G.S. § 20-158(b) at the following intersections (traffic on the first named
street shall stop before entering the intersection):
Intersections Ord. No.
Intersections                        Ord. No.
Azalea Drive at Pineview Drive       1987-6
Azalea Drive at Spruce Drive         -
Banjo Court at Smokey Mountain Drive -
Barbee Avenue at Wakefield Street    -
Barbee Avenue at Arendell Avenue     -
Bell Street at Judd Street           -
Calvin Street at Sexton Avenue       1983-11
Cambridge Drive at Stratford Drive   -
Cambridge Drive at Wedgwood Avenue   -
Canterbury at US 64 Business         1984-6
Canterbury at Pony Road              1984-6
Cedar Court at Cedar Drive           1984-6
Cedar Drive at Pineview Drive        1984-6
Cedar Drive at Sasswood Lane         -
Church Street at Horton Street       -
Church Street at Vance Street        -
Church Street at Sycamore Street     -
Church Street at Gannon Avenue       -
Church Street at Glenn Street        1987-15
Church Street at Judd Street         -
Coventry Drive at Wedgwood Avenue    -
Coventry Drive at Yates Place        -
Derby Place at Somerset Drive        1984-6
Devon Place at Coventry Drive        -
Dobro Court at Southland Drive       -
 
Intersections Ord. No.
Intersections                             Ord. No.
Dogwood Drive at Arendell Avenue          1999-14
Dulcimer Lane at Southland Drive          -
Emorywood Court at Franklin Street        -
Flowers Avenue at Glenn Street            -
Flowers Avenue at North Street            -
Franklin Street at Arendell Avenue        -
Franklin Street at Church Street          -
Franklin Street at Lee Street Extension   -
Franklin Street at Parkside Place         -
Franklin Street at Wakefield              1987-11
Gill Street at NC 97                      -
Gill Street at North Street               -
Gill Street at Sycamore Street            -
Glenn Street at Wakefield Street          -
Glenn Street at Church Street             -
Glenn Street at Arendell Avenue           -
Gordon Street at Sexton Avenue            1983-11
Hempstede at Lanier Lane                  1987-23
Hendricks Drive at Highway 96             1999-16
Highway NC 97 at Old US #64               -
Horton Street at Wakefield Street         -
Hospital Road at 64 Business              -
Hospital Road at Pony Road                -
Judd Street at Arendell Avenue            -
Judd Street at Old US #64                 -
Lakeside Circle at Franklin Street        -
Lanier Lane at Gannon Avenue (NC Hwy. 97) 1987-6
Lee Street at Wakefield Street            -
Lee Street at Arendell Avenue             -
 
Intersections Ord. No.
Intersections                                    Ord. No.
Lee Street at Church Street                      -
Lee Street Extension at Judd Street              -
Leeds Place at Wedgwood Avenue                   -
Liberty Street at Gannon Avenue                  -
McIver Street at Arendell Avenue                 -
McIver Street at Church Street                   -
McIver Street at Lee Street Extension            -
McIver Street at Wakefield Street                -
Mandolin Lane at Smokey Mountain Drive           -
Mandolin Place and Southland Drive               -
Naomi Street at Horton Street                    1984-6
Naomi Street at NC Hwy 97 East                   1984-6
North Street at Wakefield Street                 -
North Street at Church Street                    -
North Street at Arendell Avenue                  -
North Street at Old US #64                       -
North Street at Whitley Street                   -
Oak Street at Primrose Place                     1983-15, 1984-6
Oak Street at Wakefield Street                   -
Old US 64-NC 97 Junction Street at Old US #64    -
Old US 64-NC 97 Junction Street at NC 97         -
Parkside Place at Franklin Street                -
Pineview Drive at Gannon Avenue (NC Hwy 97)      1984-6
Pineview Subdivision                             2000-16
   Banjo Drive at Smokey Mountain Drive       -
   Dobro Court at Southland Drive             -
   Dulcimer Court at Southland Drive          -
   Fiddle Court at Smokey Mountain Drive      -
   Golden Slipper Court at Smokey Mountain Dri-e
   Harmonica Drive at Spruce Drive            -
   Mandolin Place at Smokey Mountain Drive    -
   Mandolin Place at Southland Drive          -
   Piney Glen Lane at Smokey Mountain Drive   -
Pitt Street at North Street                      -
 
Intersections Ord. No.
Intersections                              Ord. No.
Pitt Street at Stronach Avenue             -
Pitt Street at NC 97                       -
Pony Road at NC 97                         -
Poplar Street at Vance Street              -
Poplar Street at Horton Street             -
Poplar Street at Sycamore Street           -
Poplar Street at Old US #64                -
Poplar Street at NC 97                     -
Poplar Street at North Street              -
Primrose Place at Barbee Avenue            1983-15
Primrose Place at Wakefield Street         1983-15, 1984-6
Privette Street at Stronach Avenue         -
Rotary Drive at Horton Street              1981-14
Rotary Drive at Sycamore Street            1981-14
Rotary Drive at Gannon Avenue              1981-14
Sasswood Lane at Azalea Drive              -
Sexton Avenue at Gannon Avenue (NC Hwy 97) 1983-11
Shannon Street at Pony Road                1984-6
Shannon Street at US 64 Business           1984-6
Silver Street at Primrose Place            1983-15, 1984-6
Smokey Mountain Drive at Southland Drive   -
Somerset Drive at Cambridge Drive          1984-6
Somerset Drive at Wedgewood Drive          1984-6
Spruce Drive at Pineview Drive             1987-6
Stratford Drive at Wedgwood Avenue         -
 
Intersections Ord. No.
Intersections                                  Ord. No.
Stratford Drive at NC 97                       -
Stronach Avenue at Gill Street                 -
Stronach Avenue at Whitley Street              -
Stronach Avenue at Old US #64                  -
Sycamore Street at Arendell Avenue             -
Sycamore Street at Wakefield Street            -
Sycamore Street at Whitley Street              1983-2, 1984-6
Vance Street at Wakefield Street               -
Vance Street at Whitley Street                 -
Wakefield Street at Gannon Avenue              -
Wakefield Street at Glenn Street               1987-15
Wakefield Street at Judd Street                -
Wedgwood Avenue at NC 97                       -
Wellington Drive at Stratford Drive            -
Whitley Street at NC 97                        -
Whitley Street at Horton Street                -
Worth Hinton Road at Gannon Avenue (NC Hwy 97) 1984-6
Zebulon High School Driveways at Old US #64    -
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   When signs have been erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to fail to yield the right-of-way at a “YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY” sign as
required by G.S. § 20-158 at the following intersections (traffic on the first
named street shall yield the right-of-way to traffic on the second named
street).
 
Yield Street Intersection Ord. No.
-            -            -
 
   (RESERVED)
(1985 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. II)
SCHEDULE III: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Traffic-control devices shall be installed at the following street
intersections.
 
Intersections                    Ord. No.
Arendell Avenue at Gannon Avenue -
Arendell Avenue at Horton Street -
Arendell Avenue at Vance Street  -
NC 97 at US Business 64          -
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. III)
SCHEDULE IV: SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the town in excess of
20 mph along the following streets.
Description Ord. No.
Description                                              Ord. No.
Arendell Avenue from Gannon Avenue to Barbee Street      -
Cambridge Drive from Wedgwood Avenue to Stratford Avenue -
Cul-de-sac from Vance Street into housing project        -
Horton Street from Church Street to Arendell Avenue      -
Hospital Road from Pony Road to US 64 Business           -
Stratford Avenue from NC 97 to Cambridge Drive           -
Vance Street from Church Street to Poplar Street         -
Wedgwood Avenue from NC 97 to Cambridge Drive            -
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the town in excess of
25 mph along the following streets.
Description Ord. No.
Description                                                      Ord. No.
Azalea Drive                                                     1987-6
Barbee Street from Arendell Avenue to eastern corporate limits   -
Calvin Street in its entirety                                    1983-10
Cedar Court                                                      1987-6
Cedar Drive                                                      1987-6
Church Street from Judd Street to Vance Street                   -
Coventry Drive from Yates Place to Wedgwood Avenue               -
Derby Place in its entirety                                      -
Devon Place in its entirety                                      -
Flowers Avenue in its entirety                                   1983-10
Franklin Street from Stratford Drive to Lee Street Extension     -
Gill Avenue in its entirety                                      -
Glenn Street from western corporate limits to Old US 64 East     -
Gordon Street in its entirety                                    1983-10
Horton Street from Arendell Avenue to Naomi Street               1985-17
Horton Street from the western corporate limits to Church Street -
Judd Street from western corporate limits to Old US 64 East      -
Lanier Lane                                                      1987-6
Leeds Place in its entirety                                      -
Lee Street from Wakefield Street to Poplar Street                -
Lee Street Extension from Poplar Street to Judd Street           -
Liberty Street from North Street to Gannon Avenue                -
McIver Street from Wakefield Street to Lee Street Extension      -
 
Description Ord. No.
Description                                                            Ord. No.
North Street from western corporate limits to eastern corporate limits -
Oak Street from Wakefield Street to Primrose Street                    -
Pineview Drive                                                         1987-6
Pitt Street from Stronach Avenue to NC 97                              -
Poplar Street from Lee Street to Vance Street                          -
Primrose Place in its entirety                                         1983-14
Rotary Drive from Gannon Avenue to Horton Street                       1981-15
Sexton Avenue in its entirety                                          1983-10
Silver Street in its entirety                                          1983-14
Somerset Drive from Wedgwood Avenue to Cambridge Drive                 -
Spruce Drive                                                           1987-6
Stratford Drive from Wedgwood Avenue to Cambridge Drive                -
Stronach Avenue from Old US 64 East to Whitley Street                  -
Sycamore Street in its entirety                                        -
Old US 64 from a point 500 feet south of the southern boundary
property line of Zebulon High School extending to a point 500 feet     -
north of the northern property line of the school: 7:30 through 8:30
a.m. and 2:30 through 3:30 p.m. (school zone)
Vance Street from Wakefield Street to Church Street                    -
Vance Street from Poplar Street to eastern corporate limits            -
Wakefield Street from Judd Street to Gannon Avenue                     -
Wedgewood Drive from Cambridge Drive to the northern corporate limits  -
Wellington Drive in its entirety                                       -
West Franklin Street from Wakefield Street to Statford Drive           -
Whitley Street from Barbee Avenue to NC 97                             -
Whitley Street north from NC 97 to Stonach Avenue                      -
Yates Place in its entirety                                            -
 
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the town in excess of
35 mph along the following streets.
Description Ord. No.
Description                                                           Ord. No.
Arendell Avenue from Gannon Avenue to northern corporate limits       -
Arendell Avenue from southern corporate limits to Barbee Avenue       -
Barbee Street west from Arendell Avenue to Wakefied Street            1999-01
Cemetery Road from Stronach Avenue to the northern corporate limits   -
Horton Street from Naomi Street to the eastern corporate limits       1985-17
Pony Road from western corporate limits to NC 97                      -
NC 97 from NC 96 to eastern corporate limits                          -
NC 97 from US 64 Business to the western corporate limits,            1976-11
approximately 0.15 mile west of US 64 Business
Old US 64 from NC 97 to northeastern corporate limits                 -
US 64 Business from western corporate limits to NC 96                 -
Wakefield Street from Gannon Avenue to the southern corporate limits  -
Whitley Street from Gannon Avenue to Stronach Avenue                  -
Worth Hinton Road from Gannon Avenue to the northern corporate limits 1983-12
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V: NO VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
   When signs have been erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to utilize the following for vehicular traffic.
 
Description                                                        Ord. No.
Alley between Horton Street and Vance Street for a distance of 130 1987-17
feet east and west of Arendell Avenue
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. V) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI: NO U-TURNS.
   When signs have been erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to make a U-turn at the intersection of or at the location of the U-
turn sign.
 
Street                         Location
100 Block of East Vance Street 200 feet west of Poplar Street
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 74, Sch. VI) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking
   
II.   Parking limitations
   
III.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   When signs are erected or painted on the street giving notice of a no-
parking zone, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any
vehicle.
Description Ord. No.
Description                                                     Ord. No.
Upon NC 97 between its intersection with Poplar Street and its  -
intersection with the western corporate limits of the town
Upon Old Highway US 64 between its intersection with NC 97 and  -
its intersection with North Street
Upon the east side of Arendell Avenue for a distance of 270
feet south of its intersection with Gannon Avenue; and upon the 1987-16, 1983-5
west side of Arendell Avenue 190 feet south of its intersection
with Gannon Avenue
Upon Wedgwood Avenue for a distance of 400 feet north of its    -
intersection with NC 97
Upon Stratford Drive for a distance of 400 feet north of its    -
intersection with NC 97
Upon Pony Road between its intersection with Hospital Drive and -
its intersection with NC 97
Upon US 64 Business for a distance of 400 feet west of its      -
intersection with NC 97
Upon Horton Street (SR 2348) from its intersection with Naomi
Street to the intersection with the eastern corporate limits of 1977-13
the town
Upon the south side of Judd Street from the intersection of the
southern right-of-way line of Judd Street and the western
right-of-way line of Church Street (extended) to the            1982-6, 1979-7
intersection of the southern right-of-way line of Judd Street
and the eastern right-of-way line of Bell Street
Upon the south side of Judd Street between its intersection     1982-9
with Wakefield Street and its intersection with Arendell Avenue
Upon Arendell Avenue (North Carolina Highway #96) between its
intersection with Gannon Avenue (North Carolina Highway #97)
and the northern corporate limits of the town. Provided,
however, that funeral vehicles may park within an area located  1980-6
along the eastern right-of-way line of Arendell Avenue between
40 feet and 200 feet from the intersection of Arendell Avenue
and Gannon Avenue for funeral purposes for a period not to
exceed 2 hours
Upon Arendell Avenue (North Carolina Highway #96) for a
distance of 40 feet north of the intersection of the northern   1980-6
right-of-way line of Sycamore Street and the centerline of
Arendell Avenue
Upon Arendell Avenue (North Carolina Highway #96) for a
distance of 40 feet south of the intersection of the southern   1980-6
right-of-way line of Sycamore Street and the centerline of
Arendell Avenue
Upon Privette Street (SR 2380)                                  1981-18
Upon the south side of East Barbee Street from its intersection
with Whitley Street to a point 60 feet east of that             1983-13
intersection
Upon the south side of McIver Street for a distance 76 feet
west of the intersection of McIver Street and North Arendell    2001-39
Avenue
Upon the east side of Church Street for a distance of 217 feet  -
from its intersection with Vance Street
Upon the west side of Church Street for a distance of 165 feet  -
from its intersection with Vance Street
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 75, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: PARKING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   When signs are erected adjacent to parking spaces in each block by the
Police Department giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for
longer than the posted limits or the limitations set by this schedule at any
time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on any day except Sunday,
Independence Day, Labor Day and Christmas on the following streets of the town.
 
Parking Period        Location
Twelve-minute parking Vance Street on the north side in front of the property
                      occupied by the United States Post Office
Thirty-minute parking First 4 parking spaces on north side of Vance Street east
                      of the intersection of Vance Street and Arendell Avenue
                      Along both sides of Arendell Avenue from the intersection
                      of Arendell Avenue and the Norfolk-Southern railway
                      northwardly to the intersection of Arendell Avenue and
Two-hour parking      Gannon Avenue. Also on both sides of Sycamore Street
                      Horton Street and Vance Street for a distance of 200 feet
                      from the intersection of the streets with Arendell Avenue
                      except as set forth in the row above
 
   (B)   Provided, that this schedule shall not authorize parking beside fire
hydrants, in front of alleys, driveways or theaters, or in other spaces not
otherwise authorized by the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   No person shall park his or her vehicle between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on either side of Gill Street from a point located 150 feet
north of the intersection of the northern right-of-way line of Stronach Avenue
and the centerline of Gill Street northward to its terminus.
   (D)   Parking upon the south side of East Vance Street between 95 feet and
105 feet east of the intersection of Vance Street and North Arendell Avenue
shall not be restricted to motorcycle parking.
(1985 Code, Ch. 75, Sch. II) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III: LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any motor vehicle
within the following loading zones during the hours specified below except for
the purpose of commercial loading and unloading of tangible goods.
 
Description                                                      Hours Ord. No.
The area on the south side of West Horton Street beginning at a
point which is 183 feet west of the intersection of the western  -     1987-16
right-of-way line of Arendell Avenue and extending in a westerly
direction 23 feet
 
(1985 Code, Ch. 75, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
96.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
97.   NOISE
      
98.   PARADES; PICKETING; EVENTS
      
99.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
100.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
101.   SUSPENSION OF USE OF PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Declaration of purpose
   
90.02   Administration
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.05   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.06   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
90.08   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.09   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.10   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.11   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.12   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.13   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.15   Exceptions
   
90.16   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Statutory reference:
   Removal, disposal of junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-
303
§ 90.01 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town is authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-193, 160A-303 and 160A-303.2 to
regulate, restrain or prohibit abandoned, nuisance and junked motor vehicles on
public and private property within the town’s ordinance-making jurisdiction.
   (B)   The town finds it necessary and desirable to promote or enhance:
      (1)   The quality of urban attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the
town;
      (2)   The protection of property values throughout the town;
      (3)   The preservation of the liveability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
      (4)   The promotion of tourism, conventions and other opportunities for
economic development for the town;
      (5)   The attractiveness of the town’s thoroughfares and commercial roads
which present the primary, public visibility to visitors and to passers-by of
the town; and
      (6)   The promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
occupants of property in the vicinity of junked motor vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Police Department and Town Manager shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public
streets and highways within the town, and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of abandoned, nuisance or junked
motor vehicles located on private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(1985 Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Manager, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of the
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the town.
(1985 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 2005-16, passed 11-1-2004; Ord. 2007-55, passed 5-
24-2007)
§ 90.04 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(1985 Code, § 90.04)
§ 90.05 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined above,
and order the vehicle removed.
(1985 Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may order the removal of a junked
motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following among other relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(1985 Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.08, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupancy of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first-class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If the names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Town Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(1985 Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. The findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice includes:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the town hereby determines that immediate removal of the
vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(1985 Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform those services
for the town. Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in (A)(1)
through (5) above.
(1985 Code, § 90.09)
§ 90.10 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive the hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(1985 Code, § 90.10)
§ 90.11 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violation of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 90.11)
§ 90.12 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
a like vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(1985 Code, § 90.12)
§ 90.13 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Manager. The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expenses or liability because of the removal,
storage or sale thereof.
(1985 Code, § 90.13)
§ 90.14 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 90.14)
§ 90.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is located in a
bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in
accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.; which is an
enclosed building; which is on the premises of a business enterprise being
operated in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the
operation of the enterprise; or which is an appropriate storage place or
depositor maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(1985 Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.16 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(1985 Code, § 90.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Establishment and composition of the animal control program
   
91.03   General duties of animal control program
   
91.04   Cruelty to animals
   
91.05   Animal(s) at large
   
91.06   Animal(s) creating nuisance
   
91.07   Confinement and control of inherently dangerous mammals
   
91.08   Confinement and control of dangerous animals and dangerous dogs
   
91.09   Requirements for attack training facility
   
91.10   Confiscation of animals
   
91.11   Required notification to animal control program by owners of dangerous
animals or dangerous dogs
   
91.12   Dogs or animals used for sentry or guard duty
   
91.13   Teasing and molesting
   
91.14   Law enforcement dogs excluded
   
91.15   Interference with enforcement of chapter
Rabies Control
   
91.30   Compliance with state law, subchapter as supplement to state law
   
91.31   Inoculation of dogs, cats and other pets
   
91.32   Inoculation tag
   
91.33   Evidence of inoculation of cats
   
91.34   Report and confinement of animals biting persons or showing symptoms of
rabies
   
91.35   Destruction or confinement of animal bitten by rabid animal
   
91.36   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
91.37   Postmortem diagnosis
   
91.38   Unlawful killing, releasing and the like of certain animals
   
91.39   Failure to surrender animal for quarantine or destruction
Impoundment
   
91.50   Generally
   
91.51   Notice to owner
   
91.52   Redemption by owner generally
   
91.53   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal generally
   
91.54   Procedure with respect to redemption or adoption of unvaccinated dog or
cat
   
91.55   Suspected rabid animals not to be redeemed or adopted
   
91.56   Destruction of wounded or diseased animals
   
91.57   Standards of confinement
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Regulation of animals in public, see §
131.06
Editor’s Note:
   Wake County enforces the provisions of this chapter
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when he or she is off
the property of its owner and not under restraint of a competent person.
   ATTACK. An approach to a person by an unrestrained animal in a vicious,
terrorizing or threatening manner or apparent attitude of attack, without the
animal having been teased, molested, provoked, beaten, tortured or otherwise
harmed.
   ATTACK TRAINING FACILITY. Any person, group of persons, partnership or
corporation engaged in boarding, breeding, selling or training dogs or other
animals in mode of attack.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has demonstrated a fierce or dangerous
propensity or tendency to do any act which may endanger persons or property
and/or any nondomesticated animal indigenous to the State of North Carolina
including hybrid animals that are part wild. This would include but not be
limited to any dog which assaults, bites, attacks or inflicts serious injury on
a human being without provocation on public or private property and/or which
has killed or injured a pet or domestic animal without provocation. Exceptions:
No dog is dangerous pursuant to this definition if at the time the threat,
injury or damage was sustained, the person attacked was teasing, tormenting,
abusing or assaulting the dog, or has in the past teased, tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. Nor shall
a dog be considered dangerous pursuant to this definition if it has attacked or
injured a pet or domesticated animal in defense of an attack by another animal
or if it is protecting or defending its young.
   DEALER. Any person who is licensed by the United States Department of
Agriculture as a dealer.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals as horses, sheep, cattle, goats,
hogs, poultry and the like; domesticated by people so as to live and breed in a
tame condition.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person who is licensed by the United States Department of
Agriculture as an exhibitor.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter, if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known
or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS MAMMAL. Any live member of the canidae, felidae or
ursidae families, including hybrids thereof, which, due to their inherent
nature, may be considered dangerous to humans and which include:
      (1)   CANIDAE, including any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, including wolf hybrids
which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog, but not including domestic
dogs (Canis Familiaris).
      (2)   FELIDAE, including any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, but not
including domestic cats (Felis catus).
      (3)   URSIDAE, including any member of the bear family, or any hybrids
thereof.
   KENNEL, DEALER, OR BREEDER. Any person, group of persons, partnership or
corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male animal which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal. The owner is responsible for the care, actions and behavior
of his or her animals. In the event that the owner of an animal is a minor, the
parent or guardian of the minor shall be held liable for non-compliance with
the provision of this chapter.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if it is controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device; on or
within a vehicle being driven or parked; within a secure enclosure; or within
the dwelling house of the owner.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of adequate height, forming or
causing a humane enclosure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
prevent the entry of young children. For purposes of this definition, a home,
mobile home or separate garage do not meet this definition.
   SPAYED. Any female animal which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY. Any dog or cat that appears stray, homeless or unwanted, and any dog
that is not displaying a valid rabies tag unless exempted under §
91.32.
   UNTIMELY. Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(1985 Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Animal Control Program of Wake County,
hereinafter referred to as The Animal Control Program, which shall be composed
of employees and or officials as shall be determined by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   Employees or agents enforcing this chapter shall be designated as
animal control officers. In the performance of their duties, animal control
officers shall have all the powers, authority and immunity granted under this
chapter and by the general laws of this state to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and the General Statutes of North Carolina as they relate to the care,
treatment, control or impounding of animals.
   (C)   Except as may be otherwise provided by statutes, local laws or
ordinances, no officer, agent or employee of the county charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws shall be
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of the duties unless
he or she acts with actual malice.
(1985 Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 GENERAL DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Animal Control Program shall be charged with the responsibility
of:
      (1)   Enforcing, in this county, all state and county laws, ordinances
and resolutions relating to the care, custody and control of animals;
      (2)   Assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard
to animals and especially with regard to vaccination of animals against rabies
and the confinement or controlling of dangerous animals and dangerous dogs;
      (3)   Investigating cruelty or abuse with regard to animals;
      (4)   Making canvasses of the county, including the homes in the county,
as it deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that all animals are
vaccinated against rabies as required by local ordinance or state statute; and
      (5)   Operating, pursuant to policies of the Board of County
Commissioners, the county animal shelter(s).
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Program to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
      (1)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the animal
shelter or shelters;
      (2)   Bite cases, violations and complaints, and investigation of same;
      (3)   All monies belonging to the county which were derived from
impoundment fees, penalties and sales of animals; and
      (4)   All other records deemed necessary.
(1985 Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure the action. The
words TORTURE, and TORMENT shall be held to include every act, omission or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted; but the terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful shooting of
birds, deer and other game for human food; nor to prohibit an animal’s owner, a
veterinarian, the Health Director or Animal Control Program agents from
destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner, nor to
prohibit the lawful use of animals in scientific research.
   (B)   Animal cruelty investigator(s) may be appointed by the Wake County
Board of Commissioners as provided under G.S. § 19A-45. An animal cruelty
investigator(s) have the responsibility for carrying out the defined duties of
an animal cruelty investigator as mandated by G.S. §§ 19A-46 and 19A--47. An
animal control officer may be requested to accompany the investigator on animal
seizures.
(1985 Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ANIMAL(S) AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit an animal to be at large.
The Animal Control Program shall confiscate any animal(s) found to be at large
and impound the animal(s) at the Wake County Animal Shelter in accordance with
the provisions of §§
91.50 through
91.56.
   (B)   An owner may lawfully permit an animal which is not dangerous to be at
large in the course of a show, obedience school, tracking tests, field training
or other events sanctioned or supervised by a recognized organization. Hunting
dogs may be at large in the course of hunting if under the control of the
owner. However, this provision does not exempt an owner from otherwise
complying with §
91.06 or any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Any owner permitting an animal(s) to be at large shall pay a civil
penalty of:
      (1)   First violation: $25 plus shelter reclaim fee;
      (2)   Second violation: $50 plus shelter reclaim fee; and
      (3)   Succeeding violation: $100 plus shelter reclaim fee.
   (D)   The penalty shall be paid within 72 hours of the issuance of a
citation for violation of this section.
   (E)   Effective July 1, 2012, all criminal penalties for violations of this
§
91.05 as set out in G.S. § 14-4 are hereby removed, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
175. Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the
nature of the debt.
(1985 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 2013-07, passed 7-18-2012)
§ 91.06 ANIMAL(S) CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in a manner so as to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The actions of an animal constitute a nuisance when an animal disturbs
the rights of, threatens the safety of or damages a member of the general
public; or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of private or public
property. By way of example and not of limitation, the following acts or
actions by an owner or possessor of an animal are hereby declared to be a
nuisance and are therefore unlawful:
      (1)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly disturbs,
interferes with or annoys human beings;
      (2)   Maintaining an animal that tips over garbage pails or damages
gardens, flowers or vegetables;
      (3)   Failing to confine in a building or secure enclosure a female dog
while in estrus;
      (4)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, howl or yowl in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion, or to make other noise continuously
and/or excessively for a period of ten minutes or more, or who barks, bays,
cries, howls or makes any other noise intermittently for one-half hour or more
to the disturbance of any person at any time;
      (5)   It shall not be a violation of this section if at the time the
animal is barking, baying, crying, howling or making any other noise a person
is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon private property in or upon
which the animal is situated or for any legitimate cause which teased or
provoked the animal;
      (6)   Any resident, owner, occupant or tenant of property upon which the
animal is situated shall be deemed a person in charge or otherwise exercising
control over the animal;
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or continuously loiters on
public places;
      (8)   Maintaining an animal that chases, snaps at, attacks or otherwise
molests pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers or farm stock or
domestic animals; and
      (9)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the health
of the public unless under the care of a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Effective July 1, 2012, all criminal penalties for violations of
this §
91.06 as set out in G.S. § 14-4 are hereby removed, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
175. Civil penalties may, be assessed by citation and recovered in a civil
action in the nature of a debt. If the violation is continued, each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense. Payment of the penalties shall
be made within ten days. In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by
appropriate equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who violates any provision
of this §
91.06 shall be fined a civil penalty of $100.
      (3)   If any dangerous animal or dangerous dog shall, when unprovoked,
attack, assault, wound, bite or otherwise injure or kill a human being, the
owner shall pay a $500 fine and, after a ten day waiting period exclusive of
Sundays and holidays, the dog shall be destroyed by the Animal Control Program.
For each owner’s subsequent violation the owner shall pay a $1,500 civil
penalty for owning or keeping a dangerous animal or dangerous dog which
attacks, assaults, wounds, bites or otherwise injures or kills a human being.
      (4)   If any dangerous animal or dangerous dog shall, when unprovoked,
kill, wound or worry or assist in killing or wounding any domestic animal or
pet, the owner of the dog shall pay a $250 civil penalty and the Animal Control
Program is empowered to confiscate and, after the expiration of a ten day
waiting period exclusive of Sundays and holidays, may destroy the dangerous dog
or animal. For each subsequent violation the owner of the dog or animal shall
pay a civil penalty of $500.
(1985 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 2013-07, passed 7-18-2012)
§ 91.07 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF INHERENTLY DANGEROUS MAMMALS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep an inherently
dangerous mammal within the county.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Any nonprofit institution or exhibitor or dealer which owns or
harbors inherently dangerous mammals for research, provided that the
institution/facility/premises are licensed by the United States Department of
Agriculture or Interior;
      (2)   Traveling fairs, circuses and carnivals shall also be exempt from
this section; and
      (3)   Any inherently dangerous mammal registered with the Animal Control
Program prior to June 3, 1996.
   (C)   Recapturing. The owner of any inherently dangerous mammal shall
reimburse Wake County for all cost incurred while attempting to recapture any
escaped inherently dangerous mammal. If the animal is sheltered or euthanized
by Animal Control, the owner shall also pay these costs.
(1985 Code, § 91.07) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any owner to maintain or harbor unconfined or
unrestrained any dangerous dog or animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults
or otherwise attacks a human being without provocation on public or private
property or injures or kills a pet or domesticated animal and the animal
control officer determines after investigation that the report is supported by
the evidence.
      (2)   The dog or animal shall be deemed dangerous.
   (B)   The owner will be notified in writing to confine the dog or animal in
a humane secure enclosure. The owner shall post a plainly visible sign upon the
secure enclosure warning that a dangerous dog or animal is on the premises. The
sign shall not exceed one foot by two feet or two square feet in area; and,
shall be deemed an incidental sign for the purposes of the Wake County Zoning
Ordinance.
   (C)   The owner shall have 30 days from the date of notification to provide
a humane, secure enclosure. The animal deemed dangerous shall be under constant
restraint on the owner’s property during this period.
   (D)   An animal control officer is empowered to confiscate the dog or animal
and harbor it at the owner’s expense pending the owner’s construction of a
humane secure enclosure. If any dangerous animal or dog is confiscated under
this provision, the owner of the dangerous dog or animal shall be given written
notice at the time of confiscation that if the owner fails to provide a secure
enclosure upon the expiration of 30 days from confiscation Animal Control is
authorized to dispose of the animal. If the owner constructs a secure enclosure
which is approved by Animal Control, and the animal is not being destroyed
pursuant to §
91.99(B) and (D), the animal may be redeemed within 30 days from confiscation
so long as all fees owing to Animal Control for harboring, caring and
maintaining the animal are paid.
   (E)   Dogs or animals trained or being trained in mode of attack are subject
to the provision of divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section.
(1985 Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR ATTACK TRAINING FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons, partnership or
corporation to conduct training in mode of attack for dogs or other animals at
any location unless the training is conducted within a secure enclosure. The
training within a secure enclosure within the meaning of this chapter if it is
performed within a fence or structure of adequate height to prevent the dog or
animal from jumping, climbing or otherwise escaping from the enclosure and the
training is conducted in the presence of the owner(s) or trainer(s) at all
times. Any dog or animal trained or being trained in mode of attack is deemed
to be dangerous and is subject to all the provision of this chapter relative to
dangerous dogs or dangerous animals.
(1985 Code, § 91.09) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 CONFISCATION OF ANIMALS.
   Any dangerous animal or dangerous dog not kept in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter may be confiscated by the animal control officer
and harbored at the owner’s expense until the owner complies with the
requirements of this chapter, or disposed of as provided in §
91.08.
(1985 Code, § 91.10)
§ 91.11 REQUIRED NOTIFICATION TO ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM BY OWNERS OF DANGEROUS
ANIMALS OR DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The owner of a dangerous animal or dangerous dog shall inform the Animal
Control Program, as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours, after the
occurrence of any of the following:
   (A)   An assault, attack or biting upon any human being committed by any
animal in the owner’s care or control;
   (B)   An attack or biting upon any domesticated animal or pet while the
animal is off the owner’s property;
   (C)   The destruction of or damage to property of another by the animal; or
   (D)   The roaming or escape of any animal required to be restrained or
confined to a secure enclosure.
(1985 Code, § 91.11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DOGS OR ANIMALS USED FOR SENTRY OR GUARD DUTY.
   Any person owning, maintaining or harboring a dog or other animal for sentry
or guard purposes must register the dog or animal with the Animal Control
Program. A sign warning that there is a guard or sentry dog or animal on the
premises shall be displayed. The owner shall post a plainly visible sign upon
the secure enclosure warning that a dangerous dog or animal is on the premises.
The sign shall not exceed one foot by two feet or two square feet in area; and,
shall be deemed an incidental sign for the purposes of the Wake County Zoning
Ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 91.12) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 TEASING AND MOLESTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, bait or in any way molest any
animal.
(1985 Code, § 91.13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 LAW ENFORCEMENT DOGS EXCLUDED.
   Any dog used by a law enforcement agency in the investigation of crimes or
as otherwise necessary in the enforcement of the law is excluded from
requirements of this chapter with the exception that they are regulated by the
provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.39 and §§
91.50 through
91.56 of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 91.14)
§ 91.15 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
Animal Control Program agents or officers or veterinarians in the performance
of any duty authorized by this chapter, or to seek to release any animal in the
custody of the agents, except as otherwise specifically provided.
(1985 Code, § 91.15) Penalty, see §
91.99
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.30 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW, SUBCHAPTER AS SUPPLEMENT TO STATE LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(1985 Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 INOCULATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat four months of age
or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the County Health Director, the
Board of County Commissioners, or the State Public Health Veterinarian that
other pets be inoculated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to
control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to
provide current inoculation against rabies for that pet.
   (B)   A rabies inoculation shall be deemed current for a dog and cat if two
inoculations have been given one year apart and booster doses of rabies vaccine
administered every three years thereafter.
(1985 Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 INOCULATION TAG.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provision of §
91.31 of this subchapter, there shall be issued to the owner of the animal
inoculated a numbered metallic tag, stamped with the number and the year for
which issued, and indicating that the animal has been inoculated against
rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide the dog with
a collar or harness to which a current tag issued under this section is
securely attached. The collar or harness, with attached tag, must be worn at
all times, except during the time the dog is hunting or is performing at shows,
obedience trials, tracking tests, field trials, schools or other events
sanctioned and supervised by a recognized organization.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any animal a rabies
inoculation tag issued for an animal other than the one using the tag.
(1985 Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 EVIDENCE OF INOCULATION OF CATS.
   Cats shall not be required to wear the metallic tag referred to in §
91.32 above, but the owner of a cat shall maintain the rabies vaccination
certificates as written evidence to prove that the cat has a current rabies
inoculation.
(1985 Code, § 91.33)
§ 91.34 REPORT AND CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS BITING PERSONS OR SHOWING SYMPTOMS OF
RABIES.
   (A)   Every dog or cat which has bitten any person or which shows symptoms
of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Control Program, and thereupon shall be securely quarantined, at the
direction of the Animal Control Program, for a period of ten days, and shall
not be released from the quarantine except by written permission from the
Animal Control Program.
   (B)   Dogs and cats quarantined under this section shall be confined in a
veterinary hospital, boarding kennel or county animal shelter, at the expense
of the owner; provided, however, that if an animal control officer determines
that the owner of an animal which must be quarantined has adequate confinement
facilities upon his or her own premises, the animal control officer shall
authorize the animal to be confined on the premises. The animal control officer
may not authorize the animal to be confined on the owner’s premises unless the
owner has a fenced-in area in his or her yard and the fenced-in area has no
entrances or exits that are not locked, and the animal is currently vaccinated
against rabies. Proof will be required at the time of investigation. If the
animal is confined on the owner’s premises, the animal control officer shall
revisit the premises for inspection purposes at approximately the middle of the
confinement period and again at the conclusion of the confinement period.
   (C)   In the case of stray dogs or cats whose ownership is not known, the
dogs or cats may be euthanized and the head examined for rabies or kept for the
supervised quarantine period required by this section at the county animal
shelter.
   (D)   If rabies does not develop within ten days after a dog or cat is
quarantined under this section, the dog or cat may be released from quarantine
with the written permission of the animal control program. If the dog or cat
has been confined in the county animal shelter, the owner shall pay any
necessary veterinarian fees and a boarding fee set by the Board of Health and
approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (E)   In the case of any carnivore or bat the animal may be euthanized and
the head examined for rabies.
(1985 Code, § 91.34) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35 DESTRUCTION OR CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL BITTEN BY RABID ANIMAL.
   Unvaccinated animals bitten by a known rabid animal shall be immediately
destroyed. If the animal has a current rabies inoculation, it shall be
revaccinated and return to the owner.
(1985 Code, § 91.35)
§ 91.36 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies, the County
Director of Public Health may order an area-wide quarantine for a period as he
or she deems necessary. Upon invoking of the emergency quarantine, no dog, cat
or other carnivores shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets during that period. During the quarantine, no dog or cat or other
carnivore may be taken or shipped from the county without written permission of
the Animal Control Program, and the Police and Sheriff’s Departments are hereby
directed during the emergency, to impound any dog, cat or other carnivore found
running at large in the county. During the quarantine period, the Animal
Control Program or local health authorities shall be empowered to provide for a
program of mass immunization by the establishment of temporary emergency rabies
vaccination facilities strategically located throughout the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, the period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the County Director of Public Health.
(1985 Code, § 91.36)
§ 91.37 POSTMORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of the
animal shall be submitted to the Wake County Department of Health for shipment
to the State Laboratory of Public Health for rabies diagnosis.
   (B)   The carcass of any animal suspected of dying of rabies shall be
surrendered to the Animal Control Program. The head of the animal shall be
submitted to the Wake County Department of Health for shipment to the State
Laboratory of Public Health for rabies diagnosis.
(1985 Code, § 91.37) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 UNLAWFUL KILLING, RELEASING AND THE LIKE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies,
or any animal biting a human, or to remove the animal from the county without
written permission from the Animal Control Program and the County Director of
Health.
(1985 Code, § 91.38) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR QUARANTINE OR DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction as required in this subchapter, when
demand is made therefore by the Animal Control Program.
(1985 Code, § 91.39) Penalty, see §
91.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.50 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or unwanted, or which is
found to be not wearing a valid rabies vaccination tag, as required by state
law or this chapter, and not under restraint in violation of this chapter,
shall be impounded by the Animal Control Program and confined in an animal
shelter in a humane manner.
   (B)   Impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner thereof from
any penalty which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 91.50)
§ 91.51 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal Control Program
shall make reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform the owner of the
conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (B)   If the owner is unknown or cannot be located, notice of the
impoundment shall be posted for five days, or until the animal is disposed of,
on a bulletin board at the animal shelter, and the time and place of the taking
of the animal, together with the time and date of posting the notice shall be
stated herein.
(1985 Code, § 91.51)
§ 91.52 REDEMPTION BY OWNER GENERALLY.
   (A)   The owner of an animal impounded under this subchapter may redeem the
animal and regain possession thereof within 120 hours five days after notice of
impoundment is given or posted, as required by §
91.51 above, by complying with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
paying any necessary veterinarian’s fee and a boarding fee set by the Board of
Health and approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   No animal owner may be permitted to adopt his or her own animal under
the provisions of §
91.53 in order to reclaim an animal that has been impounded pursuant to state
law or this subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 91.52)
§ 91.53 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL GENERALLY.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within the period
prescribed in §
91.52 above, it may be destroyed in a humane manner or shall become the
property of the animal shelter(s) and offered for adoption to any responsible
adult who is willing to comply with this chapter. The animal may be adopted or
purchased by the first such person who pays the adoption or purchase fee.
   (B)   All unsterilized dogs and cats five months of age or older adopted
from the Wake County Animal Shelter shall be either spayed or neutered within
30 days of their adoption. All animals adopted under five months of age shall
be spayed or neutered at six months of age. Written proof of the sterilization
shall be promptly provided by the adopter to the Animal Control Program of the
Wake County Department of Health. The adoption of any animal not sterilized
pursuant to this section shall be deemed to violate the provision of this
section and must be returned by the applicant for re-adoption to the Wake
County Animal shelter. The Animal Control Program is authorized to obtain an
adoption agreement from an applicant to implement the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   (1)   The animal shelter shall require from the adopter a
sterilization deposit fee established by the Board of Commissioners to insure
that sterilization is obtained in addition to the established adoption fee.
      (2)   When written proof that the required sterilization has been
performed by a licensed veterinarian is returned to the Animal Control Program,
a fee equal to the sterilization portion of the deposit will be reimbursed to
the adopter.
      (3)   A person who fails within the specified time to arrange for the
sterilization of an unsterilized cat or dog purchased or adopted from the
animal shelter forfeits the sterilization deposit fee and shall surrender the
cat or dog to the animal shelter.
   (D)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter
during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant to §
91.36 of this chapter, except by special authorization of the Director of
Public Health.
   (E)   Any animals that exhibit fierce, dangerous or aggressive behavior will
not be offered for adoption.
(1985 Code, § 91.53)
§ 91.54 PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT TO REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOG OR
CAT.
   (A)   (1)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished,
every person who either adopts or redeems a dog or cat at the animal shelter
will be given a proof of rabies vaccination card at the time of the redemption
or adoption.
      (2)   This card will be stamped with a date stating the maximum time
limit allowed to take the dog or cat to the veterinarian of the person’s choice
for rabies vaccination. The time limit for dogs and cats four months and older
will be 72 hours, with Sundays and holidays excluded. For puppies and kittens
under four months, the time limit will vary according to their age.
   (B)   The proof of rabies vaccination card will be completed and returned to
the animal shelter by the veterinarian. If this card is not returned to the
animal shelter within the time limit specified on the card, an animal control
officer will be dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat.
   (C)   Payment for the rabies vaccination provided for in this section will
be the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the animal.
(1985 Code, § 91.54)
§ 91.55 SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS NOT TO BE REDEEMED OR ADOPTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, animals impounded
which appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but
shall be dealt with in accordance with §§
91.30 through
91.39 of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 91.55)
§ 91.56 DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any animal
impounded which is badly wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and has no
identification shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner.
   (B)   If the animal has identification, the Animal Control Program shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of such, but if the owner cannot
be reached readily, and the animal is suffering, the Animal Control Program may
destroy the animal at its discretion in a humane manner.
(1985 Code, § 91.56)
§ 91.57 STANDARDS OF CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If an animal should be kept outside of the primary dwelling of
its owner, the owner shall be required to confine it in a manner that would
prevent unprovoked attacks on citizens and provides for the overall health,
safety and comfort of the animal.
      (2)   Enclosures shall be structured as to prevent an unauthorized
release of the enclosed animal, and to prohibit any discomfort to the enclosed
animal. Furthermore, adequate cleanliness of the enclosure and adequate food,
water and air for the animal are required for animals kept outside of the
primary dwelling.
   (B)   Maintenance of the enclosure shall occur on an as needed basis in
order to eliminate the accumulation of animal feces, thereby preserving a high
standard of sanitation.
   (C)   In times of inclement weather adequate and comfortable accommodations
are to be made for animals.
(1985 Code, § 91.57)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who violates any provision of
this chapter, shall be fined a civil penalty of $100. If the violation is
continued, each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. Payment of
the penalties shall be made within ten days. Civil penalties may be assessed by
citation and recovered by Wake County in a civil action in the nature of a
debt.
   (B)   If any dangerous animal or dangerous dog shall, when unprovoked,
attack, assault, wound, bite or otherwise injure or kill a human being, the
owner shall pay a $500 fine and, after a ten-day waiting period exclusive of
Sundays and holidays, the dog shall be destroyed by the Animal Control Program.
For each owner’s subsequent violation the owner shall pay a $1,500 civil
penalty for owning or keeping a dangerous animal or dangerous dog which
attacks, assaults, wounds, bites or otherwise injures or kills a human being.
   (C)   If any dangerous animal or dangerous dog shall, when unprovoked, kill,
wound or worry or assist in killing or wounding any domestic animal or pet, the
owner of the dog shall pay a $250 civil penalty and the Animal Control Program
is empowered to confiscate and, after the expiration of a ten-day waiting
period exclusive of Sundays and holidays, may destroy the dangerous dog or
animal. For each subsequent violation the owner of the dog or animal shall pay
a civil penalty of $500.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter may subject the violator to criminal as well
as civil action. In addition to the civil penalties or fees imposed under this
chapter, violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor for which a criminal
summons may be issued. Any person convicted of the violation shall be
punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. Each day’s violation of this section is
a separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant
to this division does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes,
civil penalties or fees imposed under this chapter.
   (E)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(1985 Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions and Regulations
   
92.01   Applicability of chapter
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Prohibited acts
   
92.04   Plantings and maintenance
   
92.05   Hours of visitation
   
92.06   Conduct in cemetery
   
92.07   Regulation of vehicles
   
92.08   Removal of floral arrangements
   
92.09   Regulation of animals
Interments
   
92.10   Depth of graves
   
92.11   Grave liners
   
92.12   Certificate of death; permits
   
92.13   Hours of interment
   
92.14   Marking new graves
   
92.15   Interments per grave
   
92.16   Interment of human remains only
   
92.17   Tents and other private property
   
92.18   Exhumations
Sale of Plots
   
92.19   Procedure for the purchase of plots
   
92.20   Price of plots
   
92.21   Modification of official plats
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Cemeteries generally, G.S. Ch. 65
   Municipality’s authority to regulate cemeteries, see G.S. §§ 160A-341 et
seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all cemeteries which
are now or may hereafter be located within the corporate limits of the town,
for which the town assumes the responsibility for regulation and maintenance.
(1985 Code, § 92.01)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A grouping of lot units, the number of which may vary but which shall
be in accordance with an official plat or layout of the cemetery property.
   CEMETERY. An established location designated for the interment of the
deceased, which is now, or shall hereafter be, under the regulatory authority
of the town.
   LOT. A unit of cemetery property which may contain three or four plots, as
designated by an official plat or layout of the cemetery property.
   PLOT. A unit of cemetery property containing two grave spaces.
(1985 Code, § 92.02)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person, unless duly authorized by the town, shall alter, damage or
remove any building, monument, fence, railing, enclosure or other structure or
object lawfully located within a cemetery.
   (B)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any cemetery any
unclean or offensive matter.
   (C)   No person or group of persons shall disturb any funeral service
lawfully conducted on cemetery grounds.
(1985 Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PLANTINGS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No person other than an authorized employee of the town shall plant or
maintain, or cause to be planted or maintained, any tree, shrub, ground cover
or other vegetation within a cemetery.
   (B)   Within any cemetery under its regulatory authority, the town reserves
the right to trim, prune, apply herbicides to, or remove any tree, shrub or
other vegetation which is detrimental or damaging by reason of roots, branches
or otherwise to existing grave spaces, prohibitive to normal procedures for
maintenance, or which is aesthetically disruptive.
(1985 Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 HOURS OF VISITATION.
   Hours of visitation shall be from 8:00 a.m. until sundown. No person shall
enter cemetery grounds contrary to this schedule without written authorization
from the town.
(1985 Code, § 92.05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 CONDUCT IN CEMETERY.
   (A)   No person shall use a cemetery for loitering, parking or as a
playground.
   (B)   No person shall discharge fireworks or firearms within a cemetery,
except that firearms may be discharged in the case of a military funeral.
(1985 Code, § 92.06) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REGULATION OF VEHICLES.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated within any cemetery in excess of ten mph.
All vehicles shall be confined to travelways intended to accommodate them.
(1985 Code, § 92.07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 REMOVAL OF FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   (A)   All floral arrangements, living or artificial, shall be removed when
they become wilted, impaired or unsightly.
   (B)   If arrangements and their containers which have outlived their purpose
are not removed by the owners, they shall be removed by an authorized employee
of the town.
(1985 Code, § 92.08)
§ 92.09 REGULATION OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall lead any animal into a cemetery or allow any animal to run
at large therein.
(1985 Code, § 92.09) Penalty, see §
92.99
INTERMENTS
§ 92.10 DEPTH OF GRAVES.
   (A)   All coffins and vaults shall be buried so that the surface of the
uppermost part is at least 24 inches below the normal surface of the earth.
   (B)   The placement of all aboveground mausoleums shall be constructed of
granite or marble and be no larger than 86 inches in width by 108 inches in
length by 42 inches in height for a two-crypt mausoleum or 43 inches in width
by 108 inches in length by 42 inches in height for a one-crypt mausoleum. This
shall be verified by the Town Manager or his designee before installation.
(1985 Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 2019-14, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 GRAVE LINERS.
   Concrete, steel or fiberglass grave liners shall be used for all interments
in any town-regulated cemetery. This requirement shall not be waived under any
circumstances.
(1985 Code, § 92.11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 CERTIFICATE OF DEATH; PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   A certificate of death must be secured from a licensed physician
prior to the interment of any remains within a cemetery.
      (2)   The certificate shall give the name and residence of the deceased,
the name of the nearest relative, and the time, place and cause of death. A
copy of the certificate of death shall be furnished upon the request of the
town.
   (B)   In the instance a body is brought in from out of state, no interment
shall be made without a permit from the County Health Department.
(1985 Code, § 92.12)
§ 92.13 HOURS OF INTERMENT.
   Funeral services shall be generally scheduled between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m.
(1985 Code, § 92.13)
§ 92.14 MARKING NEW GRAVES.
   (A)   Placement of monuments, markers or footstones for identification of
grave sites shall be the responsibility of the owners, and shall be
accomplished within a reasonable period of time. Temporary markers may be
removed by the town when they have outlived their usefulness.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall erect or cause to be erected any coping, border
or other delineation of a grave space unless the materials used to achieve such
an effect are flush with the surface or ground that they are placed upon.
      (2)   Any like border or coping hereafter erected shall be subject to
removal by the town if not installed according to the above requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   Any monument or marker shall be no higher than four feet tall.
(1985 Code, § 92.14) (Ord. 2019-14, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 INTERMENTS PER GRAVE.
   Only one interment shall be made per grave, except that a mother and infant
child, two infant children, one vault burial and one cremated remains or two
cremated remains may be placed in a singular space. Cremains must be placed in
an urn and an urn vault before burial.
(1985 Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 2019-14, passed - - )
§ 92.16 INTERMENT OF HUMAN REMAINS ONLY.
   Only human remains may be buried within any cemetery maintained by the town.
(1985 Code, § 92.16) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 TENTS AND OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Tents shall be erected by the funeral homes and shall not remain at the
grave site more than ten days. The town shall assume no liability for damages
to any private equipment, regardless of circumstance.
(1985 Code, § 92.17)
§ 92.18 EXHUMATIONS.
   No grave, vault or tomb within a cemetery shall be disturbed, nor shall any
body be exhumed from any grave, vault or tomb, without a permit from the County
Health Department, and the written consent of the lot owner or closest living
relative of the deceased.
(1985 Code, § 92.18) Penalty, see §
92.99
SALE OF PLOTS
§ 92.19 PROCEDURE FOR THE PURCHASE OF PLOTS.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The town intends to make cemetery plots available to all persons on
an equal basis.
      (2)   To enable the town to achieve this goal, restrictions shall be
placed on the sale of plots in order to discourage the purchase and sale of
those for speculative purposes.
   (B)   Number of plots.
      (1)   No person or other legal entity, including but not limited to
companies, partnerships, corporations and other business associations, shall be
allowed to purchase less than one nor more than four plots of cemetery
property.
      (2)   Appeals pursuant to this division shall be heard and determined by
the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Sale by town.
      (1)   Upon payment by the purchaser of the full purchase price, the Town
Clerk shall cause a deed for the plot or plots to be executed and conveyed to
the purchaser.
      (2)   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all sales.
(1985 Code, § 92.19)
§ 92.20 PRICE OF PLOTS.
   (A)   The cost levied by the town for a cemetery plot shall be set annually
in the Fee Schedule that is adopted as a part of the budget.
   (B)   The following regulations shall govern the purchase of plots.
      (1)   Cemetery plots shall generally be purchased at the town Hall during
regular business hours 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
      (2)   An administrative fee of $75 shall be applied to all sales
conducted outside of this schedule.
(1985 Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 2019-14, passed - - )
§ 92.21 MODIFICATION OF OFFICIAL PLATS.
   The official plats of town-regulated cemetery properties may be revised or
modified by the town Board of Commissioners upon establishment of the need
therefor.
(1985 Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 2019-14, passed - - )
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50, or by
imprisonment of not more than 30 days. Each day that a violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 2019-14, passed - - )
CHAPTER 93: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
93.01   Existence of emergency
   
93.02   Authority of Mayor
   
93.03   Applicable restrictions
   
93.04   Restrictions to be obeyed
   
93.05   Amendment of proclamation
   
93.06   End of emergency
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 EXISTENCE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(1985 Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is authorized
and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of a state of emergency, and, in order more effectively to protect
the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect any or all
of the restrictions authorized in this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to limit by proclamation the
application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area specifically
designated or described within the corporate limits of the town and to specific
hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of those
restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
those other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare
needs of the people within the town.
(1985 Code, § 93.02)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor may proclaim state of emergency, see G.S. § 14-288.1(6)
§ 93.03 APPLICABLE RESTRICTIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
prohibit or regulate by proclamation any or all of the following:
   (A)   The possession off one’s own premises of explosives, firearms,
ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit the purchase, sale,
transfer or other disposition thereof, except as allowed by G.S. § 166A-19.31;
   (B)   The buying or selling of beer, wine or alcoholic beverages of any
kind, and their possession or consumption off one’s own premises;
   (C)   Any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or participation therein from
taking place on any of the public ways or on any public property;
   (D)   The sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any other explosive or
inflammable fluids or substances;
   (E)   Travel on any public street, alley or roadway or on any other public
property, except by those in search of medical assistance, food or other
commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-being of themselves or their
families or some member thereof; and/or
   (F)   The participation in or carrying on of any business activity, and
prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of business, places of
entertainment, and any other places of public assembly.
(1985 Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 2017-13, passed 2-6-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Shooting of firearms prohibited, see §
131.02
§ 93.04 RESTRICTIONS TO BE OBEYED.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 AMENDMENT OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(1985 Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 END OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners of the town.
(1985 Code, § 93.06)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any provision of any
restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this chapter, shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding $50
or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(1985 Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Fire Chief to investigate cause of every fire
   
94.02   Record of fires to be kept
   
94.03   Fire apparatus to have right-of-way
   
94.04   Establishment of fire limits
   
94.05   Restrictions within fire limits
   
94.06   Certain acts prohibited
   
94.07   Fire prevention code enforcement
   
94.08   Knox box installation
Flammable Fluids and Explosives
   
94.15   Purpose
   
94.16   Definitions
   
94.17   Handling of flammable fluids and explosives
   
94.18   Storage of flammable fluids and explosives
   
94.19   Transit of flammable fluids
   
94.20   Oil plants
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 33
   General duties of Fire Chief, see §
30.04 and Charter §
5.9.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FIRE CHIEF TO INVESTIGATE CAUSE OF EVERY FIRE.
   Immediately after the occurrence of any fire, the Fire Chief shall
investigate, or shall cause to be investigated, the cause, origin and
circumstances thereof, and, as far as possible, shall determine whether the
fire was the result of accident, carelessness or design. If he or she has
reason to believe that the fire was of suspicious origin, he or she shall
notify the proper authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of
the matter, and shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collecting
of evidence and in the prosecution of the case when properly instituted.
(1985 Code, § 94.01)
Statutory reference:
   Duty of firefighters generally, see G.S. § 160A-29l
§ 94.02 RECORD OF FIRES TO BE KEPT.
   The Fire Chief shall keep, or cause to be kept, an accurate record of all
fires occurring in the town. For each fire the following information shall be
secured and kept:
   (A)   Location of premises;
   (B)   Owner;
   (C)   Brief description of premises, whether of brick, stone, concrete, iron
or wood;
   (D)   How occupied, whether as dwelling, storehouse, factory, workshop or
otherwise;
   (E)   Amount and nature of damages as to both real and personal property;
   (F)   Amount of insurance;
   (G)   Cause of fire;
   (H)   Date.
(1985 Code, § 94.02)
§ 94.03 FIRE APPARATUS TO HAVE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When the fire alarm sounds, every automobile, truck or other vehicle
is required immediately to come to a full stop at the curb until the fire truck
has passed, and pedestrians are required to clear the streets at once when the
operator of the fire truck is giving a warning signal by appropriate light and
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle audible under normal conditions from a
distance not less than 1,000 feet.
   (B)   (1)   In event of an alarm of fire, the apparatus of the Fire
Department shall have the right-of-way in and on the streets, lanes, alleys,
squares and railroad crossings in going to any fire, or being on any street,
lanes, alleys, squares or railroad crossings provided that the operator of the
Fire Department vehicle is giving a warning signal by appropriate light and by
bell, siren or exhaust whistle audible under normal conditions from a distance
of not less than 1,000 feet.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or willfully fail
or refuse to make way for any of the apparatus.
(1985 Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Emergency apparatus to have right-of-way, see G.S. § 20-156
§ 94.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LIMITS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-435 the primary fire limits of the town shall be,
and are hereby defined as follows:
   Bounded on the north by a line running parallel with Sycamore Street located
168.666 feet in a northerly direction along the centerline of Arendell Avenue
from the intersection of the centerline of Arendell Avenue and the centerline
of Sycamore Street; on the south by Barbee Street; on the east by a line
running parallel with Arendell Avenue and being located 200 feet east from the
centerline of Arendell Avenue; and on the west by a line running parallel with
Arendell Avenue and being located 200 feet west from the centerline of Arendell
Avenue.
(1985 Code, § 94.04)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-435 was repealed by Session Laws 2019 111, s. 2.3
§ 94.05 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, alter,
repair, move or assist in erecting, altering, repairing or moving any wooden
frame or wooden building or structure or addition thereto within the fire
limits of the town as defined in §
94.04 except on prior written approval of the Building Inspector of the town or
county.
(1985 Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Congregating in street near fire. It shall be unlawful for any person
to congregate in the streets, lanes, alleys or squares in the vicinity of a
fire so as to interfere with the Fire Department;
   (B)   False fire alarms. It shall be unlawful for any person to turn in or
aid or abet in turning in any false fire alarm in the town;
   (C)   Interference with firefighters or fire apparatus. No person shall
interfere with a firefighter in discharge of his or her duty or hinder him or
her in the performance of his or her duty, nor shall any person other than
members of the Fire Department loiter about any fire station, or change, handle
or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or any fire apparatus;
   (D)   Protection of fire hose. It shall be unlawful to drive over, or in any
way damage or mutilate, any fire hose while in use at a fire or otherwise; and
   (E)   Unlawful to obstruct hydrant. It shall be unlawful at all times for
any person to obstruct any hydrant or fire plug in a manner so as to interfere
with the easy approach to, or convenient use of it by the Fire Department.
(1985 Code, § 94.06) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Fire Prevention Code adoption.
      (1)   In order to safeguard life and property from the hazards of fire
and explosion arising from the storage, handling, and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the use or occupancy of buildings, other structures, or premises,
the N.C. Fire Prevention Code, a volume of the North Carolina State Building
Code, in its most current adopted and published edition by the North Carolina
State Building Code Council, including all subsequent amendments or revisions
duly adopted, is hereby adopted by the town and incorporated by reference as
though fully set forth herein. The N.C. Fire Prevention Code shall be regularly
referred to in this section as the “Fire Prevention Code,” or “the Code.” In
the event of conflict, the more restrictive provisions of this section shall
prevail over the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code.
      (2)   The listed standards and publications which comprise a part of the
Fire Prevention Code, as the same may be periodically revised and updated, are
also hereby adopted for use in the enforcement of the Code, as though fully set
forth herein.
      (3)   An official copy of the Fire Prevention Code, and revisions
thereto, shall be maintained on file in the offices of the Fire Department and
in the office of the Town Clerk.
      (4)   State law reference. Adoption of technical codes by reference, G.S.
§ 160A-76(b); State Building Code, G.S. §§ 143-138 et seq.
      (5)   Adopted North Carolina Fire Prevention Code Appendix D.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-360, the provisions of
the Fire Prevention Code are applicable and shall be enforced within the
corporate limits, and also within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
town.
   (C)   Responsibility for enforcement; Fire Inspection Office.
      (1)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Fire Inspection
Office within the Fire Department of the town, which shall be operated under
the supervision of the Fire Chief.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall also be known as the Fire
Marshal until a time that he or she appoints a Chief in charge of the Fire
Inspection Office. This member, who will then be known as the Fire Marshal,
shall be appointed on the basis of the merit principle, and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Fire Chief.
      (3)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members of the Fire
Department as Fire Prevention Inspectors as he or she may determine necessary.
   (D)   Inspections; associated fees.
      (1)   The Fire Inspection Office shall schedule and perform the
inspections of property throughout the jurisdiction as may be needed and
appropriate in furtherance of the goals and objectives of the Fire Prevention
Code. However, the following minimum inspection schedule shall be met:
         (a)   Once every year: hazardous, institutional, high rise, assembly
and residential (within scope of the Code);
         (b)   Once every two years: educational (except public schools) and
industrial; and
         (c)   Once every three years: business, mercantile, storage, churches
and synagogues.
      (2)   Fees associated with the enforcement of the Code shall be
established by the Town Council, and the official schedule of the fees shall be
maintained in the office of the Fire Marshal and the Town Clerk.
   (E)   Penalties for violations of Fire Prevention Code.
      (1)   Compliance; responsibility for enforcement. Compliance with the
provisions of the section, including all requirements of the Fire Prevention
Code adopted hereunder, shall be enforced by the inspectors of the Fire
Inspection Office of the Fire Department. In exercising its enforcement
responsibilities, the goal of the Fire Inspection Office shall be to employ the
enforcement alternatives calculated most effectively to secure compliance with
the Fire Prevention Code and other fire prevention standards and requirements
of the town.
      (2)   Violations. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any
of the provisions of this section, including the Fire Prevention Code adopted
hereunder, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any corrective order of
the Fire Inspection Office issued hereunder, or who shall build in violation of
any specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder shall be deemed to
have committed a violation of this section and shall be held responsible and
subject to the penalties and remedies herein provided. In addition, any person
owning, leasing, using, managing or occupying any building, structure or land
wherein or whereon there exists anything in violation of this section,
including the Fire Prevention Code, or any lawful order issued or plan approved
hereunder, or any architect, builder, contractor, engineer, agent or other
person who acts in concert, participates, directs or assists in the creation or
maintenance of a violation of this chapter or any order issued or plan approved
hereunder; or any person who shall erect or use any land, building or structure
or any part thereof contrary to this section, the Fire Prevention Code, any
order issued or plan approved hereunder; or any person who shall omit, neglect
or refuse to do any act provided for in this section, including the Fire
Prevention Code, or any order issued or plan approved hereunder shall be held
responsible for a violation of this section and be subject to the penalties and
remedies herein provided.
      (3)   Penalties and remedies. Enforcement may be as authorized by any
method described in G.S. § 160A-175. Any fees or associated costs used for
enforcement shall be outlined in the official schedule of fees as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   Failure to correct violations; continuing violations. If a
violation of this section is not corrected within the time specified in the
notice and citation or other lawful order issued hereunder, the violator shall
be guilty of a new and separate offense, and each day’s further continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense, enforceable by all the
remedies herein set forth, including additional civil penalties.
(1985 Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 8-4-2014)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. 160A-360 was repealed by Session Laws 2019 111, s. 2.3
§ 94.08 KNOX BOX INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A “knox box” is required at the following types of buildings and
enterprises:
      (1)   All new or renovated commercial buildings equipped with automatic
fire sprinkler systems and building fire alarm systems or inside standpipes
shall provide a “knox box” key entry system. In addition, any existing
commercial structure with these fire protection features must provide a “knox
box” at the time a new tenant or owner occupies the building.
      (2)   All commercial enterprises, businesses or industries in the town
that use, store or manufacture on-site hazardous materials that must be
reported under state right-to-know laws, G.S. §§ 95-173 et seq., or under Title
III of the Federal Super Fund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder, must have
an approved on-site hazardous materials data storage box at each facility where
hazardous materials may be found. For the full requirements regarding hazardous
material storage boxes, see §§
100.01 through
100.99.
   (B)   The “knox box” box shall be ordered through the Town Fire Department,
and shall be in place before a certificate of occupancy is issued. Average
delivery time is five to six weeks. This box shall be mounted at the location
specified by the town Fire Inspections Office. The owner, manager or tenant
shall provide keys to access the facility (or to tenant spaces within the
facility) to the Town Fire Department.
   (C)   The following criteria will be considered before requiring the
installation of a “knox box” within the scope of the town Fire Inspection
Program. Businesses that meet all of the criteria listed below may be exempt
from the “knox box” requirement. Buildings or locations that:
      (1)   Are less than 2,500 square feet in size and only one occupancy. A
maximum of two businesses may occupy one building provided that the total
square footage of the building does not exceed 2,500 square feet;
      (2)   Are not required to have a hazardous material data storage box;
      (3)   Have at least one main entry door and door frame constructed of
wood or have at least one window located on the first floor that is at least
three feet by four feet in size. Glass for the window cannot be wired
reinforced safety glass, nor are any barriers permitted in front of the window;
and
      (4)   Have other unusual or extraordinary situations that may be specific
to an individual location.
(1985 Code, § 94.08)
FLAMMABLE FLUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 94.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the storage and handling of
dangerous materials in accordance with safety methods as established by
experience and the findings of the National Board of Fire Underwriters and
other authorities.
(1985 Code, § 94.15)
Statutory reference:
   Municipality’s authority to regulate explosives, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 94.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINERS. CONTAINERS APPROVED by the National Board of Fire
Underwriters.
   EXPLOSIVES. The known explosive materials such as black powder, gunpowder,
blasting powder, trinitrotoluene, nitroglycerine, dynamite, blasting caps,
detonators and other explosive products.
   FLAMMABLE FLUIDS. All combustible liquids and gases of dangerous volatility
and low flashpoint such as gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, acetylene and the
like.
(1985 Code, § 94.16)
§ 94.17 HANDLING OF FLAMMABLE FLUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   No person shall keep in any car or warehouse, or on any platform, any
cargo of gunpowder or blasting powder or other explosive, for more than six
hours.
   (B)   Every person having any powder or dynamite on his or her premises
shall notify the Chief of the Fire Department, in writing, of the location of
the powder or dynamite and shall display conspicuously, clearly and legibly a
sign bearing the words “POWDER --- DANGER” or “DYNAMITE --- DANGER” at that
place.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispense any gasoline into a
glass container or to store any gasoline in a glass container within the town.
(1985 Code, § 94.17) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE FLUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   The quantity and storage of flammable liquids and explosives shall be in
accordance with the current North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
(1985 Code, § 94.18)
§ 94.19 TRANSIT OF FLAMMABLE FLUIDS.
   (A)   Vehicles carrying flammable fluids in transit may not park within the
town limits and must follow the truck routes as may be, or have been,
established.
   (B)   However, vehicles with a maximum capacity of 1,800 gallons, separated
in compartments holding no more than 600 gallons each, may park for purposes of
loading and unloading only.
(1985 Code, § 94.19) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see G.S. § 20-167
§ 94.20 OIL PLANTS.
   The construction, arrangement and location of oil plants and the
manufacture, storage (above or underground), and distribution of flammable
fluids shall be in conformity with state laws and specifications established by
the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
(1985 Code, § 94.20) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or
imprisonment of not more than 30 days. Each and every day that the violation
shall continue or occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Collecting and hauling of waste
   
95.03   Unlawful deposits of garbage, wastes within town
   
95.04   Garbage collection fee
   
95.05   Material not permitted in containers
   
95.06   Special provision for the aged, handicapped and disabled
Provision for Containers and Collection
   
95.10   Location of mobile containers
   
95.11   Time requirements for collection
   
95.12   Ownership and responsibility of containers
Multi-Family Dwellings’ Refuse Collection
   
95.20   Provisions for containers
   
95.21   Container location to be on site plans
   
95.22   Design and location
   
95.23   Purchase and maintenance of containers
   
95.24   Collection
Industrial, Commercial and Business Buildings’ Refuse Collection
   
95.35   Provisions for containers
   
95.36   Design and location
   
95.37   Purchase and maintenance of containers
   
95.38   Collection
Public Nuisance to Health and Safety
   
95.50   Investigation
   
95.51   Notification
   
95.52   Removal by town
   
95.53   Charge for removal
   
95.54   Lien for costs
   
95.55   Remedy not exclusive
   
95.56   Chronic violators
Commercial Building Maintenance Code
   
95.60    Intent and scope
   
95.61   Definitions
   
95.62   Vacant building registration required
   
95.63   Maintenance requirements
   
95.64   Security requirements
   
95.65   Inspections
   
95.66   Enforcement; violations and penalties
   
95.67   Appeals
   
95.68   Severability
   
95.69   Preemption
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Storage of hazardous materials,
Ch. 100
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to regulate solid wastes, garbage and trash, see
G.S. § 160A-311
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material.
   BUILDING RUBBISH. Rubbish from construction, remodeling and repair
operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including but
not limited to excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete and
waste parts occasioned by installations and replacements.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted
for the transaction of business, for the rendering of professional services,
for amusement, for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
articles or equipment including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
abattoirs, warehouses, sheds, barns and other structures on premises used for
or adapted to business purposes. For the purposes of this chapter, civic clubs
and churches shall be classified as BUSINESSES.
   CONTAINER. A front end metal sleeve type with sliding doors that is water
and odor proof. Container size shall be four cubic yards, six cubic yards or
eight cubic yards.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the town or his or
her agent.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Sawdust, shavings, feathers, excelsior, cartons, boxes,
metal, glass, paper, wood, textiles, chemicals, plastic or other waste
materials from processing plants, factories or manufacturing operation.
   MOBILE CONTAINER. A plastic container provided by the Town of Zebulon or its
contractor. This cart shall be capable of being automatically dumped with
specified equipment.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE TO HEALTH AND SAFETY. The existence of any of the following
conditions on any vacant lot or other parcel of land within the corporate
limits of the town which is hereby declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to
the public health or safety and to constitute a public nuisance:
      (1)   Noxious weeds and tall grass.
         (a)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or tall grass to a
height in excess of 12 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard
detrimental to the public health or safety.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, or occupant of land
in the town to allow or permit the growth of vegetation to a height greater
than 12 inches or noxious weeds on any land between the property lines of the
parcel and the pavement edge of any public roadway.
         (c)   Tall vegetation along driveways and public roads that may impair
visibility when entering or exiting public roads is prohibited.
         (d)   Tracts of land with no structures, that are five acres or less
shall mow any weeds, grass, and the like which grow to a height greater than 12
inches.
         (e)   Unless the noxious weeds and tall grass defined in divisions (1)
(a) through (d) of this definition meet the following standards or are causing
or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public health, safety, or
welfare, the following shall not apply to:
            1.   Natural areas, such as but not limited to, wetland areas, wild
flower restoration, public open spaces, wooded areas, rain gardens, bogs, or
marshes.
            2.   Land located within 50 feet of natural or altered creeks,
rivers and stream corridors, including riparian buffer strips, that convey
water.
            3.   Land used for agriculture, including pastures that are fenced
and contain animals.
            4.   Temporary erosion control grasses.
            5.   Ornamental grasses grown for its beauty either for screening,
accent, specimen, color, or any other aesthetic reasons.
            6.   Tracts of land listed as one of Wake County’s Soil and Water
Conservation Voluntary Agricultural Districts.
         (f)   Tracts of land greater than five acres are exempt only if one of
the following standards apply:
            1.   Single ownership of adjoining properties greater than five
acres; or
            2.   Tracts of land that is not platted or developed. For the
purpose of this section DEVELOPED shall mean that the property has been
improved with the construction of buildings, parking lots, or other facilities
excluding utilities, sewer lines, or water lines.
         (g)   Tracts of land greater than five acres, whether exempt or not
under the conditions as stated in division (l)(f) of this definition shall mow
noxious weeds or tall grass a minimum of 50 feet from the interior of the tract
of land to any property line which adjoins or abuts a tract of land holding a
current certificate of occupancy. Any property with land fronting a public
right-of-way must maintain a minimum of 50 feet from the pavement edge of the
roadway inward.
         (h)   If an approved phase within a development has vacant tracts of
land totaling a minimum of five acres, then those tracts of land which adjoin
or abut a developed tract holding a current certificate of occupancy must be
maintained.
      (2)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (3)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening
to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health.
      (4)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the Wake County Health Department.
      (5)   Any uninhabited structure which is in such a state of disrepair,
ruin or neglect as to cause or threaten to cause a fire hazard, or threaten to
cause the accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause
the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is
or may be prejudicial to the public health.
      (6)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially damaged and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person or adjoining properties, which is structurally
unsound. The damage may include but is not limited to: broken windows, fallen
roof, tire damage, structural damage, unsecured access or any other hazardous
condition.
      (7)   The storage or use of any furniture not manufactured for outdoor
use in any yard, alley, and unenclosed porch or in any other outside area.
      (8)   Any accumulation in the open of discarded or unused machinery,
building materials, household appliances or other materials, in a manner
conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, skunks, snakes, cats or vermin, or in
a manner creating fire, health, or safety hazards from such accumulations.
      (9)   Any property that, by lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of
the property, and/or being vacant depreciates the use and enjoyment of the
property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to the
community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
      (10)   The Planning Department shall make inspections as are necessary to
determine whether the noxious weeds and tall grass constitute a public
nuisance. If a violation is found to exist on the property, the enforcement
rules and procedures as listed within the Town of Zebulon Unified Development
Ordinance shall be adhered to.
   RUBBISH. Refuse, exclusive of garbage and ashes, including, but not limited
to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree bush
and hedge branches, cuttings and trimmings, yard trimmings, grass, leaves, tin
cans, metals, small mineral matter, glass, crockery, dirt, earth and dust.
   WASTE. Useless, unused, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004; Ord. 2009-23, passed 2-2-2009; Ord. 2013-50,
passed 6-3-2013; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 95.02 COLLECTING AND HAULING OF WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, hauling or
transporting any waste in the city without first obtaining a permit to do so
from the Town Manager.
   (B)   Industrial wastes shall be collected, removed and disposed of by the
operator of the factory, plant or enterprise creating or causing it in
accordance with applicable provisions of the law.
   (C)   (1)   Building rubbish shall be collected, removed and disposed of by
the contractor or builder or, on their failure to do so, by the owner of the
property.
      (2)   Any person desiring to place tree trimmings, hedge cuttings or
similar materials for collection shall cause them to be not heavier than 200
pounds nor more than four feet in length. There is no diameter limit. He or she
shall place them for collection at the curb line at the street on the area
between the sidewalk and the curb.
      (3)   No person shall burn leaves, shrubs, trees, limbs and the like on
the streets or sidewalks or on private property except on special permission of
the Chief of the Fire Department.
      (4)   No person shall throw, drop or deposit any leaves, shrubs or other
debris into any catch basin or manhole in the town.
      (5)   No person shall throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be thrown,
dropped or deposited on any land in the town, vacant or occupied, any waste,
including but not limited to refuse, garbage, ashes, rubbish, building rubbish,
dead animals, putrescible matter and anything injurious to health. However, the
prohibition contained in this division shall not apply to the filling in or
grading of property with earth, mud, ashes and similar materials.
      (6)   Dead animals shall be removed immediately by the owner of property
on whose land the animal shall lie, or by the town when the animal shall be on
public property.
      (7)   Bulk items could include items such as appliances, water heaters,
furniture or moving boxes which will be picked up by the town if placed beside
the curb. Fees may be charged for the items as determined by the Town Board.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS OF GARBAGE, WASTES WITHIN TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 GARBAGE COLLECTION FEE.
   (A)   All town single-family/residential properties are required to use the
collection service provided by the town, and use the mobile containers provided
by the collection service to deposit all garbage and refuse.
   (B)   The garbage fee shall be collected in the manner and on the terms set
forth in this code. Each customer for whom the town collects garbage shall pay
to the town a collection fee as set by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Municipality’s authority to establish fees for collection, see G.S. § 160A-
311
§ 95.05 MATERIAL NOT PERMITTED IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The following materials shall not be placed on or within the mobile
refuse containers: rocks, dirt, sod, paint, gasoline, oil, flammable liquids,
solvents, hot coals or ashes, or heavy building materials.
   (B)   Violation of these prohibitions will be treated as abuse and improper
use of the container.
   (C)   In addition, no pet litter, animal waste, food, permissible liquids or
disposable diapers shall be placed within a mobile refuse container or other
container for collection unless the material is first thoroughly sealed within
a plastic or paper bag.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 SPECIAL PROVISION FOR THE AGED, HANDICAPPED AND DISABLED.
   In order to protect the public health, ensure adequate solid waste
collection, and prevent undue hardships to the aged, handicapped and disabled,
the Town Manager is authorized to vary the requirements of this chapter
relating to placement of the container at a curbside location for collection
after conducting a reasonable investigation and finding that there is no person
living within a particular residence unit who is physically capable of placing
the container in the required location for pickup.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
PROVISION FOR CONTAINERS AND COLLECTION
§ 95.10 LOCATION OF MOBILE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All mobile containers shall be placed adjacent to the street for
collection on days designated by the Town Manager for pickup. The containers
shall be placed within five feet of the curb or street edge or in an accessible
location, but shall not be placed in the street.
   (B)   The Town Manager may authorize alternate locations for placement of
containers if unusual conditions render it necessary.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.11 TIME REQUIREMENTS FOR COLLECTION.
   The containers shall be placed in the required location for collection no
earlier than 7:00 p.m. on the day preceding a designated pickup day and shall
be removed from the curbside location no later than 7:00 p.m. on the designated
pickup day. Except during these hours, the containers shall be kept in a
location no closer to the street than the front line of the residence.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.12 OWNERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITY OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The mobile containers purchased by the town or the solid waste
contractor for the town, shall remain property of the town or of the contractor
and are provided and assigned to residences for the health, safety,
convenience, and general welfare of the occupants.
   (B)   The town shall replace any mobile container damaged by the employees
or agents of the town and the contractor shall replace any mobile container
damaged by the employees or agents of the contractor through abuse or neglect.
Mobile containers which are otherwise damaged, destroyed or stolen shall be
replaced at the expense of the occupant-user.
   (C)   The mobile containers shall not be damaged, destroyed, defaced or
removed from the premises by any person. Markings and identification devices on
the mobile containers, except as placed or specifically permitted by the town
or the contractor, are expressly prohibited and shall be regarded as damage to
the containers.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS’ REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 95.20 PROVISIONS FOR CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Developers and owners of multi-family dwellings shall provide
containers for collection of garbage, trash and refuse as follows: multi-family
dwelling complexes with four or less units have the choice of utilizing the
mobile containers provided by the town collection service or using metal front
loading containers.
   (B)   Multi-family dwelling complexes containing more than four dwelling
units shall provide the numbers, size and type of containers necessary for
refuse collection as determined by the Land Use Administrator.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21 CONTAINER LOCATION TO BE ON SITE PLANS.
   Developers of multi-family dwelling complexes of more than four units shall
include in the site plan the location for containers for approval by the Land
Use Administrator.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.22 DESIGN AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Containers shall be of design conforming to town specifications and
may range in capacity from the mobile containers provided by the town to an
eight-cubic yard metal front loading container.
   (B)   Prior to the placement of metal front loading containers a zoning
permit must be obtained.
   (C)   Front loading metal container must be placed on a concrete pad and
screened on three sides. Containers must be located in a position easily
accessible by sanitation collection equipment.
   (D)   The sanitation collector shall not be responsible for removing refuse
from containers that are not accessible to the collection equipment or fail to
meet the design specifications of the town.
   (E)   The Land Use Administrator has final authority over placement, size
and appearance of all front loading metal containers.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.23 PURCHASE AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The owners or operators of multi-family dwelling complexes with more
than four units located within the town limits shall purchase, lease or
otherwise make available a refuse container which shall conform to the
specifications of the town.
   (B)   The owners and operators shall be responsible for the operational and
sanitary maintenance of the containers.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.24 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Mobile containers provided by the town shall be picked up as
contracted with the collection service, and front-end type containers shall be
collected on a regular basis so as there is no accumulation of refuse that
would cause a public nuisance.
   (B)   All users of front loading metal containers shall be responsible for
contracting their solid waste collection with a private solid waste contractor
and shall be responsible for paying contractors directly.
   (C)   Each complex utilizing mobile container service through the town shall
be billed by the town in the same manner set forth in this code.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS BUILDINGS’ REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 95.35 PROVISIONS FOR CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Commercial, industrial and business buildings shall provide containers
for collection of garbage, trash, and refuse as follows: each facility shall
provide adequate containers of a size necessary to contain the volume of refuse
based on a weekly pickup.
   (B)   Small business and institutions generating less than 640 gallons of
trash weekly may utilize a maximum of four mobile containers provided by the
town or by option choose to combine their refuse with adjoining business and
share in the use of a front loading metal container of style and make
conforming to town specifications.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.36 DESIGN AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Containers shall be of design conforming to town specifications and
may range in capacity from the mobile containers provided by the town to an
eight-cubic yard metal front loading container.
   (B)   Prior to the placement of front loading metal containers a zoning
permit must be obtained.
   (C)   Front loading metal container must be placed on a concrete pad and
screened on three sides. Containers must be located in a position easily
accessible by sanitation collection equipment.
   (D)   The sanitation collector shall not be responsible for removing refuse
not placed in containers nor from containers that are not accessible to the
collection equipment or fail to meet the design specifications of the town.
   (E)   The Land Use Administrator has final authority over placement, size
and appearance of all front loading metal containers.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.37 PURCHASE AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The owners or operators of commercial, industrial or business
buildings located within the town limits shall purchase, lease or otherwise
acquire containers meeting the specifications of the town.
   (B)   The owners and operators shall be responsible for the operational and
sanitary maintenance of the containers.
   (C)   Each commercial, industrial or business utilizing mobile container
service through the town will be provided those containers by the town.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.38 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Refuse shall be collected on a regular twice-per-week basis for
commercial containers, and once per week for residential type mobile
containers.
   (B)   Additional commercial collection shall be the responsibility of each
commercial user.
   (C)   The owner or operator of a business utilizing front loading metal
containers shall be responsible for contracting their solid waste collection
with a private contractor and shall be responsible for paying the contractor
directly.
   (D)   Each business utilizing mobile container service through the town
shall be billed by the town in the same manner set forth for residential
dwellings in this code.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
PUBLIC NUISANCE TO HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 95.50 INVESTIGATION.
   The Town Manager or their designee, shall conduct an inspection of any
property if there is reasonable suspicion of the existence of any conditions
defined as a public nuisance, to determine if a violation is present and take
appropriate action in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004; Ord. 2020-42, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 95.51 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon a determination that conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Town Manager or their designee shall notify in writing the owner,
occupant or person in possession of the premises in question of the conditions
constituting the public nuisance.
   (B)   He or she shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from
the receipt of the written notice.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004; Ord. 2020-42, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipality’s authority to order abatement of public nuisances, see G.S. §
160A-193
§ 95.52 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 15 days from receipt of the order, the Town Manager shall cause the
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
go on the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may within
the time allowed by this chapter request the town in writing to remove the
condition, the costs of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.53 CHARGE FOR REMOVAL.
   The actual costs incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and
it shall be the duty of the Town Manager or his or her designee to mail a
statement of the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the
premises with instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days
from the receipt thereof.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.54 LIEN FOR COSTS.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
95.53, the charges shall become a lien on the land or premises where the public
nuisance existed as provided in G.S. § 160A-193 and shall be collected as
provided by the General Statutes of the state and the Town of Zebulon code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 95.55 REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under the law for the abatement
of public nuisances.
   (B)   This chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a criminal
action against any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 11-1-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty provisions, see §
10.99
§ 95.56 CHRONIC VIOLATORS.
   (A)   A CHRONIC VIOLATOR shall be defined as a person who owns property
whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the town gave notice of violation at
least three times under any provision of the town's public nuisance ordinance.
   (B)   The town may notify a chronic violator of the town's public nuisance
ordinance that, if the violator's property is found to be in violation of the
ordinance, the town will, without further notice in the calendar year in which
notice is given, take action to remedy the violation, and the expense of the
action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes.
   (C)   The notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail. When service
is attempted by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice may also be
sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within ten days after the mailing. If service by regular mail
is used, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected.
(Ord. 2020-42, passed 3-2-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Municipality's authority to remedy a nuisance, see G.S. § 160A-200.1
COMMERCIAL BUILDING CODE MAINTENANCE
§ 95.60 INTENT AND SCOPE.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Town Board of Commissioners, through the
adoption of this subchapter, to establish commercial property maintenance
standards ordinance as a mechanism to preserve the historic integrity of
Zebulon’s downtown districts and to protect the town’s commercial districts
from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and security of
abandoned and vacant properties and occupied buildings that are falling into
disrepair. Additionally the town desires to deter crime and theft of materials,
to minimize loss of property value to vacant properties and surrounding
occupied properties, to reduce the risk of damage from fire, flooding or other
hazards, and to promote the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents. The town finds that the presence of properties exhibiting evidence
of vacancy pose special risks to the health, safety, and welfare of the
community and therefore required heightened regulatory attention. The
provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all properties in the DTC and DTP
Business District of the town.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain words and phrases used in this
subchapter are defined as follows:
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
   DISREPAIR. Falling into poor condition due to damage, neglect, decay, or
similar condition with conditions including, but are not limited to, overgrown
or dead vegetation, extensively chipped or peeling exterior paint, exterior
walls in poor condition, porches and steps in poor condition, roof in poor
condition, broken windows and other signs of general disrepair, accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail, past due utility notices or disconnected
utilities, accumulation of trash, junk or debris, the absence of window
coverings such as curtains, damaged blinds, or shutters.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any aesthetic condition that on its own or combined
with other conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the property is vacant. Such conditions include disrepair or the absence of
furnishings or personal items consistent with commercial habitation, statements
by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, government employees that the
property is vacant.
   GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any public body having authority over the property and
residents of the town, including but not limited to the Town of Zebulon, Wake
County, Zebulon Police Department, Zebulon Fire Department, Wake County
Sheriff’s Office.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL. Any public official representing a public body which
has authority over the property and residents of the town, including but not
limited to the Code Enforcement Officer, Planning Director, Building Inspector,
Police Chief, Fire Inspector, and Town Manager.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any real property used or intended to be used for
anything other than residential property as defined herein.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or fiduciary
having a legal or equitable title or any interest in any real property. No
trustee in any deed of trust shall be considered an owner.
   OWNER OF RECORD.  The person or entity listed on recorded deed, probated
will or heir by intestacy.
   PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property or portion thereof,
situated in the town and includes the buildings or structures located on the
property regardless of condition.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A building or portion thereof, designed exclusively
for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, multiple
dwellings, mobile homes, house trailers, boarding and lodging houses, apartment
house, and apartment hotels.
   TOWN. The Town of Zebulon corporate limits and its extra territorial
jurisdiction.
   UTILITIES. Water, sewer, telephone, natural and propane gas, and electricity
services.
   VACANT. A property that has not been legally occupied for 180 days. “Legally
occupied” means occupancy by the owner or any business or individual whose
presence therein is with the consent of the owner with utilities furnished to
the property.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.62 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any vacant commercial property located within the town’s DTC or DTP
districts must be registered by the owner with the town, either of the owner of
a vacant property’s own accord before receiving a notice of registration
requirement, or within 30 days of receiving a notice of registration
requirement from the town.
   (B)   The town will send a notice of registration requirement to the owner
of record of properties that exhibit evidence of vacancy. Owner shall register
property within the time set forth in division (A) above unless owner can
provide clear and convincing evidence to the Town Administrator, within such
time period, that the property is not vacant.
   (C)   The vacant building registration shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner (corporation or individual);
      (2)   The direct street/office mailing address of the owner and P.O. box
if applicable; and
      (3)   A direct contact name and phone number.
   (D)   Any changes in the information in (C)(1) through (C)(3) above shall be
reported to the town within 30 days of such changes.
   (E)   Registration must be renewed annually.
   (F)   Vacant properties shall remain subject to the annual registration,
maintenance and security requirements of this section if they remain vacant.
   (G)   Once the property is no longer vacant or is sold, the owner must
provide written proof of occupancy or sale to the town.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.63 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Commercial and mixed-use properties subject to this section shall be kept in
compliance with the following maintenance requirements:
   (A)   The exteriors of building(s)/structure(s) on the property shall be
painted or maintained in a way that does not exhibit any appearance of
disrepair or evidence of vacancy.
   (B)   The yards of the property shall be free of rubbish as defined in §
95.01 and shall be maintained in a way that does not provide appearance of
disrepair or evidence of vacancy.
   (C)   The decks and porches located on the property shall be maintained in a
way that does not provide appearance of disrepair or evidence of vacancy.
   (D)   The windows and doors of buildings/structures of the property shall be
intact and operable and shall be maintained in a way that does not provide
appearance of disrepair or evidence of vacancy.
   (E)   Instances of disrepair of buildings/structures located in the property
or portion thereof shall be corrected in order to eliminate appearance of
disrepair or evidence of vacancy so that no visible rotting with the exterior
free of peeling paint, loose bricks, or other required maintenance and kept in
good aesthetic condition, and signage shall conform to Chapter 5 of the Town of
Zebulon Unified Development Ordinance.
   (F)   The property shall be maintained to exhibit no appearance of disrepair
of evidence of vacancy.
   (G)   The storefronts, facades, and awnings of buildings shall be maintained
in a way that does not provide appearance of disrepair or evidence of vacancy.
   (H)   The interiors, when visible to passersby through storefront windows,
shall be maintained in a way that does not exhibit appearance of disrepair or
evidence of vacancy. This may be accomplished with displays within the window
bay or similar point of interest decals, photos, or similar elements displayed
on the glass.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.64 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Vacant properties subject to this subchapter shall comply with the following
security requirements.
   (A)   The property shall be maintained in a secure manner so as not to be
accessible to unauthorized persons. This includes, without limitation, the
closure and locking of windows, doors (including, but not limited to walk-
through, sliding, and garage), gates, pet doors, and any other such opening of
such size that it may allow a child to access the interior of the property or
structure.
   (B)   Broken windows shall be replaced and/or re-glazed; windows at street
lever shall not be boarded up, and windows on upper floors shall be secured to
still appear to be in good operation. If windows are boarded up, they shall be
painted to look like fully operable windows.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.65 INSPECTIONS.
   The town shall have the authority and the duty to inspect properties subject
to this subchapter for compliance and to issue citations for any violations.
The town shall have the discretion to determine when and how such inspections
are to be made, provided that their policies are reasonably calculated to
ensure that §§
95.60 through 95.69 are enforced.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.66 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates a provision of this subchapter or fails to
comply with any order made thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken,
or who shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by appeal,
or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally, for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or authorize its continuance.
   (D)   All such persons shall be required to submit an acceptable plan of
action to the Town Administrator within 15 business days of notification. This
plan of action must include, but is not limited to, a description of the work
to be done, by whom and a specific schedule. Plans shall be reviewed by the
town and work is to commence within 15 days of staff approval. When not
otherwise specified, failure to meet any stated condition within 15 days of
required action shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.67 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this subchapter may
present an appeal in writing to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.68 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision, section, paragraph, sentence or word of this
subchapter be determined or declared invalid by any final court action in a
court of competent jurisdiction or by reason of any preemptive legislation, the
remaining provisions, sections, paragraphs, sentences or words of this
subchapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.69 PREEMPTION.
   Except as specifically preempted by G.S. § 160D-1201 et seq., G.S. § 160D-
1129, or town ordinances promulgated pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1129 et seq., this
subchapter shall apply to all commercial mixed-use, and vacant properties in
the DTC and DTP zoning districts in the town as described in the town of
Zebulon Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalties for failure to comply with §§
95.60 through
95.69.
      (1)   Maintenance and security requirements. Failure to meet the
maintenance and security requirements is punishable by a civil penalty of $500.
      (2)   Failure to implement plan or failure to register. Failure to
implement a plan within 15 days of approval or complete the plan within the
approved time unless given an extension in writing by the Town Administrator,
or failure to register within 15 days of receiving notice to register vacant
building is a violation punishable by a civil penalty of $500.
      (3)   For violations of §§
95.60 through
95.69, each day that a violation remains in effect shall constitute a new
violation.
(Ord. 2021-60, passed 4-12-2021)
CHAPTER 96: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
96.01   Public urination or defecation
   
96.02   Standing water; pollution of streams
   
96.03   Camping
   
96.04   Reserved
   
96.05   Sale of unfit food
   
96.06   Keeping of offensive matter
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage as a public nuisance to health and safety, see §§
95.50 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Municipality’s authority to order abatement of public health nuisances, see
G.S. § 160A-193
§ 96.01 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in or upon any
public place, street, sidewalk, alley, outhouse or outside area, open to public
view and at the same time in the presence of any other person.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 STANDING WATER; POLLUTION OF STREAMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any
building or premises to keep or permit thereon any standing water to be or
remain in any pool, pond or open vessel or to keep or permit thereon any
decaying animal or vegetable matter or any substance injurious to health.
   (B)   No person shall use any stream or water course, street, sidewalk or
gutter to carry off water from kitchen sinks, bathtubs or to carry off any
fluid of an offensive or dangerous nature.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Illicit discharges and illicit connections as a nuisance, see § 151.29
§ 96.03 CAMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp or dwell in tents, automobiles,
carts, recreational vehicles, campers or any other means on any vacant lot,
part or plot of land within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 RESERVED.
   This section was deleted and reserved by Ord. 2005-17.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 96.05 SALE OF UNFIT FOOD.
   No meat, fish, oysters, birds, fowls, fruit, vegetables, milk or any kind of
fresh or canned foods which is not sound, wholesome and fit for human food
shall be sold or kept or offered for sale in the town as food for human beings.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 KEEPING OF OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or maintain
on his or her or its premises any compost, manure, meat, vegetable or fish
matter of a kind and nature as to be a menace to the public health, or to fill
any land with, or dump on any vacant lot, garbage, dead animals, decaying
vegetable matter or offensive materials, nor shall any of the aforementioned
objectionable materials be buried within the town.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of
not more than 30 days. Each and every day that the violation shall continue or
occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 11-1-2004)
CHAPTER 97: NOISE
Section
   
97.01   General prohibitions of unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noise prohibited
   
97.02   Enumeration of unlawful noises
   
97.03   Loudspeakers and amplifiers; use on vehicles
   
97.04   Exceptions
   
97.05   Permits for relief from allowable noise level limits
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipality’s authority to regulate noise emissions, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 97.01 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS OF UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY
NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The creation and continuance of any loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noise in the town is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person or
business to cause, make or contribute to creating any loud or disturbing noise
of a character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or
health of any individual, or noises so as to disturb the quiet and peace of any
citizen of the town.
   (B)   The term LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISE includes, but is not
limited to, the kinds of noise generated by the activities enumerated in §§
97.02 through
97.05.
   (C)   Primary enforcement responsibility will rest with the Chief of Police
or his or her designee of the town. They shall have primary enforcement
responsibility for §§
97.01 through
97.05 as they relate to stationary and non-stationary sources.
(1985 Code, § 97.01)
§ 97.02 ENUMERATION OF UNLAWFUL NOISES.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, annoying and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter. However, this enumeration
shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle except as a danger, warning or emergency
signal, by blowing or sounding any signal device on a motor vehicle for the
purpose of attracting the attention of any person on the streets or in a
building except that the person is in danger; or in compliance with the laws of
the state;
   (B)   Allowing or permitting any animal or bird to bark, whine, howl or yowl
in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion, or to make other noise
continuously and/or excessively for a period of ten minutes or more, or who
barks, bays, cries, howls or makes any other noise intermittently for one-half
hour or more to the disturbance of any person or business at any time;
   (C)   Loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise emanating from vehicles,
radios, boomboxes or the like upon public street, sidewalks, public vehicular
areas or public property, which is clearly audible at a distance of more than
50 feet from the source of the noise, measured in a straight line from the
source of the noise;
   (D)   The operation or use of any machine or device, commonly known as a
loudspeaker, or sound amplifying equipment, for the amplification of music, the
human voice, or any other noise or sound upon the public streets, sidewalks,
public vehicular areas or public property;
   (E)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any source of sound
from any occupancy in a manner so as to endanger the physical and emotional
health and welfare of the people, interfere with legitimate activity, depress
property values, offend the senses, create public nuisances, and in other
respects reduce the quality of life:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any sound described to be audible from a
distance of 100 feet from the occupancy; and
      (2)   The distance of 100 feet will be measured in a straight line from
or within the property line of the occupancy from which the sound emanates.
   (F)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary squealing,
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (G)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
   (H)   The discharge into the air of the exhaust of any stationary internal
combustion engine, or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device
which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
   (I)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building, infrastructure or other structure in a residential or business
district other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. will not be
allowed, with the exception of emergency repairs;
   (J)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, court, church or Town Council chambers while
the same are in session, or within 100 feet of any hospital, where the noise is
loud, disturbing or unnecessary;
   (K)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood; and
   (L)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show,
sale or display of merchandise.
(1985 Code, § 97.02) (Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-18-2012) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 LOUDSPEAKERS AND AMPLIFIERS; USE ON VEHICLES.
   The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks, boats, airplanes
or other vehicles for advertising or other purposes, not otherwise permitted by
this chapter, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter; provided, however,
that in the exercise of free speech, loudspeakers or amplifiers may be used for
noncommercial purposes under the following conditions: It shall be unlawful for
any person to speak into a loudspeaker or amplifier within the town when the
loudspeaker or amplifier is so adjusted that the voice of the speaker is
amplified to the extent that it is audible at a distance in excess of 100 feet
from the person speaking.
(1985 Code, § 97.03) (Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-18-2012) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Noise associated with the chimes or bells of businesses, schools,
camps or religious institutions in the daytime hours, provided they operate for
not more than ten minutes in any hour.
   (B)   Noise associated with or resulting from the normal operations of any
facility that is properly licensed by the North Carolina Department of
Agriculture, Veterinary Division, as a Boarding Kennel, Pet Shop, or Dealer in
accordance with the North Carolina Animal Welfare Act (G.S. §§ 19A-20 et seq.),
as may be amended, or of any animal shelter by the county or town.
   (C)   Non amplified crowd noises resulting from activities planned by
student, governmental, camp or community groups.
   (D)   Noise associated with any event in recognition of a community
celebration of national, state or county events, public festivals or events
sponsored by the local government.
   (E)   This noise chapter will not be applicable to any activities conducted
within a special amusement district.
(1985 Code, § 97.04)
§ 97.05 PERMITS FOR RELIEF FROM ALLOWABLE NOISE LEVEL LIMITS.
   Applications for a permit for relief from the maximum allowable noise level
limits designated in §§
97.01 through
97.04 above may be made in writing to the Chief of Police or his or her
designee. Any permit granted by the Chief of Police or his or her designee
under this chapter must be in writing and shall contain all conditions upon
which the permit shall be effective. The Chief of Police or his or her designee
may grant the relief as applied for under the following conditions.
   (A)   General conditions and requirements. The Chief of Police or his or her
designee may prescribe any reasonable conditions or requirements he or she
deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood, including use of mufflers, screens or other sound
attenuating devices.
   (B)   Permits. Permits may be granted under the following conditions:
      (1)   The function must be staged between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Friday and
Saturday;
      (2)   The function must be open to the public;
      (3)   The function must take place on public property or public vehicular
areas of shopping centers; and
      (4)   The function may take place on private property provided that the
sound is not excessively loud at a distance of 300 feet.
   (C)   Other conditions:
      (1)   No more than four permits may be issued to any one individual or
organization within a calendar year;
      (2)   The special permit may be issued for no more than three consecutive
days, renewable by further applications and at the discretion of the Chief of
Police or his or her designee; and
      (3)   Permits must be applied for at least three business days prior to
the scheduled event date. Exceptions can be authorized by the Chief of Police
or his or her designee.
   (D)   Permit not required. The following activities would not require a
noise permit: construction, demolition, public utility work, emergency repairs,
governmental activities and any other activity deemed appropriate by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee.
   (E)   Denial. A permit may be denied if a violation of the noise regulation
or any other local, state or federal law has previously been violated.
(1985 Code, § 97.05)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Effective July 1, 2012, violation of this
Chapter 97 shall subject the offender to civil penalties of not more than $50.
Each day that any of the provisions of this
Chapter 97 are violated shall constitute a separate offense. Pursuant to G.S. §
160A-175, all criminal penalties for these violations as set out in G.S. § 14-
4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of the debt.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-18-2012)
CHAPTER 98: PARADES; PICKETING; EVENTS
Section
Parades
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Requirements
   
98.03   Parking along parade route
Picketing
   
98.10   Requirements for lawful picketing
Events
   
98.20   Functions, events or dances where alcohol is served
Parks
   98.30   Park regulations
Statutory reference:
   Picketing or parading within certain distance of courts prohibited, see G.S.
§ 14-225
   Prohibition against participants carrying weapons, see G.S. § 14-277.2(a)
PARADES
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. An assemblage of more than five vehicles or 15 pedestrians in public
procession along the streets of the municipality, but not including funeral
processions, sightseeing groups or bands or marching groups proceeding to the
assembly point to participate in an authorized parade.
(1985 Code, § 98.01)
§ 98.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inaugurate, promote or
participate in any parade over the streets of the town except as herein
provided. Parades may be held in conformity with the following requirements:
      (1)   Parades may consist of not more than 75 motor vehicles but there
shall be no restrictions on the number of bands or pedestrians participating
therein;
      (2)   No parades or parts thereof may be on the streets of the town
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. the following day;
      (3)   No more than one parade may be conducted during any one calendar
day;
      (4)   Parade routes must be approved by the Chief of Police; and
      (5)   No person riding in a parade shall distribute therefrom any candy,
cigarettes, prizes or favors of any kind.
   (B)   Parades may not be conducted until a permit has been secured from the
Chief of Police. The application for permit must be made at least five days
before the date on which the parade is to be held. The Chief of Police shall
issue a permit if it appears that the parade will be held in conformity
herewith, but he or she may stop and disperse a parade conducted in violation
of this subchapter even though a permit has been issued by him or her.
(1985 Code, § 98.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to regulate vehicles in parade, see G.S. § 20-169
§ 98.03 PARKING ALONG PARADE ROUTE.
   The Police Chief shall have authority to prohibit or restrict parking along
or near a parade route for a period of three hours before and one hour after
the parade.
(1985 Code, § 98.03)
PICKETING
§ 98.10 REQUIREMENTS FOR LAWFUL PICKETING.
   (A)   Peaceful picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and not in the portion of the streets reserved for
vehicular use, and only for lawful purposes.
   (B)   Peaceful pickets for lawful purposes may carry printed placards on
non-metallic or non-wood bases not more than two feet in length or width.
However, the words used may not be defamatory, derogatory, inflammatory in
nature, or of a nature as would tend to produce violence.
   (C)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted on the sidewalk of any one block between two successive
intersections.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast, and may not walk
within 15 feet of each other except in passing. When pickets promoting
different objectives desire to use the same block for picketing and the
picketing would result in more than ten pickets in the space of one block, the
Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of pickets for the use of the
sidewalk on the block on an equitable basis.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for pickets to interfere with the free progress
of pedestrians and vehicular traffic, and persons engaged in picketing shall
maintain forward movement at all times during picketing.
   (F)   Picketing done contrary to the provisions of this section shall be
unlawful, and effective July 1, 2012, violations of §
98.10 shall subject the offending person, firm or corporation to civil
penalties of not more than $50. Each day that any of the provisions of this §
98.10 are violated shall constitute a separate offense. Pursuant to G.S. §
160A-175, all criminal penalties for these violations as set out in G.S. § 14-
4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of the debt.
(1985 Code, § 98.10) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 7-18-2012)
EVENTS
§ 98.20 FUNCTIONS, EVENTS OR DANCES WHERE ALCOHOL IS SERVED.
   (A)   No person shall give or hold a public or private event, function or
dance where alcoholic beverages are being served (except at a legally operated
private club or a private residence) unless that person shall first obtain a
permit issued by the Chief of Police or his or her designee. The Chief of
Police or his or her designee shall issue a permit after first determining:
      (1)   The person obtaining a permit has, at their own expense, arranged
to have one jurisdictional law enforcement officer present continuously for the
duration of the function, dance or event. One officer would be required for
100-199 people present and then one additional officer for each additional 100
people present (200 to 299: two officers required; 300 to 399: three officers
required and so on);
      (2)   The function, event or dance is being held in a manner so as to
comply with all federal, state and local laws and ordinances;
      (3)   The function, event or dance will not create a fire hazard, traffic
hazard or other safety hazard to the attendees or the general public; and
      (4)   The function, event or dance will not violate the Town of Zebulon
Noise Chapter unless a permit for relief from allowable noise levels has been
issued.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee is authorized to revoke any
permit granted and disburse all attendees in the event that any of the
aforementioned standards are not being complied with or in the event that a
permit has not been properly obtained.
   (C)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Any entertainment lounge having a capacity of 50 or more persons
located in and affiliated with five County Stadium, hotels, motels, restaurants
or licensed nightclubs may provide music and dancing facilities for their
guests without first obtaining a permit and employing the law enforcement
officers outlined in division (A) above. Provided that the establishment is
continuously and adequately supervised by personnel employed by the
establishment and that the establishment takes all reasonable steps to insure
order and decorum in the establishment and the surrounding areas where the
establishment’s patrons might reasonably be expected to congregate during and
following a function; and
      (2)   In the event that any establishment fails to supervise patrons and
to reasonably maintain order and decorum, then the Chief of Police or his or
her designee shall warn the establishment and upon a subsequent failure to
supervise and maintain order shall revoke the exception herein and no further
events shall be held in that establishment without first obtaining the permit
outlined in the preceding divisions of this section.
(Ord. 2004-50, passed 6-7-2004)
PARKS
§ 98.30 PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in or enter any park
owned by the town between the hours of dusk and dawn.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any town program or event or
program or event approved by the Parks and Recreation Director or their
designee.
   (B)   Group activity; public events.
      (1)   Whenever any group, association, or organization desires to use
park facilities for a particular purpose, a representative of the group,
association or organization shall first obtain a permit from the Parks and
Recreation Department for such purposes.
      (2)   Permittable facilities are established and approved through the
town's fee schedule.
      (3)   The Parks and Recreation Director or their designee will grant the
permit if it appears that the group, association or organization will not
interfere with the general use of the parks and the proposed activity of the
group will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the promotion of
public health, safety and recreation.
   (C)   Park regulations and signage.
      (1)   Signs shall be erected at the parks setting forth participant rules
in addition to stating the hours of opening and closing of the parks.
      (2)   Other signs regulating the use of the park areas by the public may
be established throughout the parks when such regulation has been established
by the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (3)   All signs are to be observed by the public and it shall be unlawful
for anyone to violate any such posted regulation.
(Ord. 2021-14, passed 8-18-2020)
CHAPTER 99: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Improvements
   
99.02   Throwing of refuse on streets, gutters, drains and the like
   
99.03   Blocking streets and alleys
   
99.04   Reserved
   
99.05   Skating and skateboarding in business district
   
99.06   Sidewalk displays
Projections Over Sidewalks
   
99.15   Definitions
   
99.16   Requirements for establishment and placement of signs and similar
structures
   
99.17   Encroachments above right-of-way surface
Statutory reference:
   Allocation of state highway funds to municipality, see G.S. § 136-41.1
   Transportation systems in and around municipalities, see G.S. §§ 136-66.1 et
seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   A reimbursement agreement may be entered into between the town and
each party making roadway paving improvements, which include the grading,
regrading, paving, repaving and widening of roadways, or the improvement
thereof with any treatment designed to provide an improved wearing surface with
necessary drainage, sewer inlets, manholes and catch basins, and the
construction or reconstruction of retaining walls made necessary by any change
of grade incident to the improvement; and, in any case where the improvement is
made, if the Board so directs, it may include the construction or
reconstruction of curbs, gutters, drains and sidewalks, plus the necessary
engineering and administrative cost associated therewith.
   (B)   The town shall assess the cost of improvements described in division
(A) above against any undeveloped property adjacent to the improvements upon
application for a zoning permit on that property.
   (C)   The amount of the assessment shall be the total cost of improvements
described in division (A) above divided by the sum of the linear footage on
both sides of the improvements, times the linear footage of the property being
assessed.
   (D)   No assessment nor reimbursement of any cost shall be made unless:
      (1)   The reimbursement agreement is signed prior to beginning of
construction;
      (2)   Contracts are awarded in compliance with provisions of state
statutes, with regards to awarding construction contracts by municipalities;
and
      (3)   Ten years have not expired from the date of acceptance by the town
of the roadway improvements installed under a reimbursement agreement.
(1985 Code, § 99.01)
§ 99.02 THROWING OF REFUSE ON STREETS, GUTTERS, DRAINS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, or cause to be thrown,
any filth, rubbish or other refuse matter in the gutters or drains within the
corporate limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or cause to be
thrown or placed on the streets or alleys of the town any glass, china,
crockery or other like substance.
(1985 Code, § 99.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.03 BLOCKING STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall block, obstruct or otherwise impede passage through
any street, alley, road or by-way by placing therein any rubbish, junk, garbage
or other obstruction, or by parking a vehicle therein for the purpose of
repairing the vehicle or any other reason, nor shall any person use any alley,
street or public passage to carry on the purposes of his or her business or
profession.
   (B)   No person shall install equipment that prevents any street, alley,
road or by-way from being accessed and maintained by public utility, emergency
and street maintenance equipment and vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 99.03) (Ord 2005-18, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.04 RESERVED.
   This section was deleted and reserved by Ord. 2005-18.
(1985 Code, § 99.04) (Ord 2005-18, passed 11-1-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.05 SKATING AND SKATEBOARDING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in roller skating or riding a
skateboard in any street, sidewalk, or alley of the town; on Arendell Avenue
from its intersection with Barbee Street north to its intersection with Gannon
Avenue; and on Vance Street, Horton Street or Sycamore Street for a distance of
200 feet east and west of the intersection of the centerline of Arendell Avenue
and the centerlines of Vance Street, Sycamore Street and Horton Street.
(1985 Code, § 99.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.06 SIDEWALK DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Outdoor displays and storage. The following outdoor display and
storage shall be allowed, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Retail merchandise, provided that:
         (a)   Outdoor displays, sales, and storage of merchandise on sidewalks
shall not impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic. At a minimum, five feet width
of clear space free of obstacles shall be maintained on the sidewalk so that
pedestrian or vehicular traffic is not impeded.
         (b)   The five-foot width shall begin at the curb, outside edge of
pavement, or the inside edge of the tree, raised planter box, columns, poles,
etc. if applicable; whichever is closer to the building when calculation the
unobstructed pedestrian or vehicular passageway.
         (c)   Merchandise shall only be displayed in front of the premises
occupied by the merchant. If the merchant’s place of business fronts multiple
right-of-ways, then the merchandise shall be located in front of and adjacent
to the front walls.
         (d)   Merchandise shall not be displayed in a manner that obstructs
pedestrian or vehicular circulation or traffic to any entrance or exit to the
premises.
         (e)   The display of merchandise shall not exceed eight feet in
height.
         (f)   Seasonal outdoor sales shall not consist of inventory that a
business typically sells. Seasonal outdoor sales include, but are not limited
to, fireworks displays, Christmas trees, pumpkin sales, etc. Such seasonal
displays shall be permitted with a zoning permit extending for a period not to
exceed 45 consecutive days. Seasonal outdoor sales shall not impede vehicular
or pedestrian traffic, and shall allow for a width of clear space for
pedestrians of at least five feet.
      (2)   Twenty-pound propane tanks, provided that:
         (a)   The tanks are stored in a locked storage container.
         (b)   There is no more that one storage container per business
establishment; and
         (c)   The storage container does not exceed 50 cubic feet in area or
sic feet in height, complies with all applicable fire and safety codes, is
painted a color similar to the principal building, and is located to allow at
least five feet of clearance for pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   One-day permits. Notwithstanding provisions elsewhere in this chapter,
the Planning Department may issue one-day permits free of charge for the sale
of food, fresh flowers, balloons, souvenirs, or other promotional items in
conjunction with any parade, procession, carnival, celebration or sales event
no more than four times per year.
   (C)    Signage. No sidewalk signage displays shall be permitted except as
authorized by the town’s sign ordinance.
   (D)   Placement of display merchandise. Placement of display merchandise on
the sidewalk must conform to all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations.
   (E)   Enforcement and review. See the Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 2008-24, passed 11-5-2007)
PROJECTIONS OVER SIDEWALKS
§ 99.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWNING. Any structure made of cloth or metal with a metal frame attached to
a building and projecting into a street right-of-way when it is erected so as
to permit its being raised into a position approximately flat against the
building when not in use.
   CANOPY. Any structure, other than an awning, made of metal or other
incombustible material attached to a building and projecting into a street
right-of-way and supported by pillars or posts within a street right-of-way.
Canopies shall extend the entire street frontage of a building.
   MARQUEE. Any hood or awning of permanent construction projecting from the
wall of a building above an entrance and extending into a street right-of-way
without pillars or posts within the street right-of-way.
   SIGN. Every billboard, ground sign, wall sign, roof sign, illuminated sign,
projecting sign, temporary sign and street clock that contains advertising made
to promote the interest of any person when they are placed out of doors in view
of the general public and project into a street right-of-way.
(1985 Code, § 99.10)
§ 99.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR ESTABLISHMENT AND PLACEMENT OF SIGNS AND SIMILAR
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, except with the express approval of the Board of
Commissioners of the town for any person, firm or corporation to construct or
maintain any awning, canopy, marquee, sign or other structure with its supports
on the street right-of-way within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   All signs, awnings and structures other than canopies and marquees
shall be at their lowest point nine feet above the ground or sidewalk when
projecting over street right-of-way. Canopies and marquees shall have a minimum
height of ten feet, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Commissioners of
the town. No structure shall extend closer than 18 inches from the back of the
curb.
(1985 Code, § 99.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.17 ENCROACHMENTS ABOVE RIGHT-OF-WAY SURFACE.
   Unless otherwise prohibited, encroachments above the surface of the right-
of-way will be permitted which are fastened securely to the walls of the
buildings and are of a height at least nine feet above the surface of the
sidewalk, and which do not in any way obstruct, delay or endanger the free and
safe passage of persons thereupon. The encroachments shall be in all cases
erected under the supervision of the Building Inspector. In addition, signs may
be erected above the sidewalk, on permission of the Building Inspector.
Permission shall be evidenced by issuance of a building permit therefor if the
sign is firmly affixed to the building so it cannot fall, and if the sign is
erected under the supervision of the Building Inspector.
(1985 Code, § 99.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 100: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
100.01   Materials data storage box required
   
100.02   Contents, types and location of data storage box
 
   
100.99   Violations; enforcement
§ 100.01 MATERIALS DATA STORAGE BOX REQUIRED.
   Effective January 1, 1992, all commercial enterprises or industries in the
town which use, store or manufacture on-site hazardous materials that must be
reported under State Right-to-Know laws, G.S. §§ 95-173 et seq., or under Title
III of the Federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, being 42
U.S.C. § 9601 et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder must have an
approved on-site hazardous materials data storage box at each facility where
hazardous materials may be found.
(1985 Code, § 100.01)
§ 100.02 CONTENTS, TYPES AND LOCATION OF DATA STORAGE BOX.
   (A)   (1)   This data storage box may contain keys providing access to
secured portions of the facility.
      (2)   The box shall contain current specific information to assist fire
departments and hazardous materials teams responding to emergencies at the
facility, including but not limited to facility maps or plans showing the type
and location of hazardous materials, Tier II forms, lists of chemicals with CAS
numbers, telephone numbers for facility employees and other persons to be
contacted in case of like emergencies.
   (B)   (1)   All information requested on Wake County Emergency Management
data storage sheets must be provided on the forms provided by Wake County or in
a substantially similar format and must be placed in the data storage box.
      (2)   The information must be updated continuously to ensure its
accuracy.
   (C)   The data storage box itself shall be of the type designated and
approved by the Wake County Local Emergency Planning Committee and shall be
located at or near the primary entrance to the facility and installed in
accordance with directives of the Chief of the Fire Department serving the
facility.
(1985 Code, § 100.02)
§ 100.99 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as provided under
G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 14-4. Each day’s continuing violation shall constitute a
separate offense as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(g).
   (B)   The municipality may also secure injunctive and other appropriate
equitable remedies to ensure compliance with this chapter, as provided by G.S.
§ 160A-175.
   (C)   Enforcement actions may be initiated by the Wake County Public Safety
Officer, the Wake County Emergency Management Director, or Chief or his or her
designee of the Town Fire Department.
(1985 Code, § 100.99)
CHAPTER 101: SUSPENSION OF USE OF PARKS
Section
   
101.01   Definition
   
101.02   General provisions
   
101.03   Notice
   
101.04   Exceptions
   
101.05   Refunds
   
101.06   Appeals
   
101.07   Enforcement
§ 101.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKS. Shall be defined as all parks, indoor facilities, recreational
facilities, greenways, activated alleyways and unimproved open space areas
owned, leased and/or operated, maintained and administrated by the Town of
Zebulon Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 101.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   If, in the opinion of the Parks and Recreation Director or their designee
(the "Director"), the continued use of any parks, or participation in any
organized program of the Town of Zebulon Parks and Recreation Department (the
"Department") by any person, or group of persons, will be detrimental to the
health, welfare, or safety or the general public, the Director shall have the
authority to suspend such person, or group of persons, from using any parks, or
from participating in any organized program of the Department as a participant
or as a spectator, for a period of up to one year.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 101.03 NOTICE.
   A notice of violation of this chapter shall be in writing and delivered to
each person, and, in the case of a minor, to the parent or guardian of each
person, as soon as reasonably practicable following the occurrence of any
activity considered by the Director to be detrimental to the health, welfare,
or safety of the general public. The form of notice shall include the following
information:
   (A)   A description of the violation(s) and date(s).
   (B)   The suspension start and end dates.
   (C)   A description of the appeal process.
   (D)   A statement that violation of the suspension will subject such person
to criminal trespassing charges.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 101.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Even if a person, or group of persons, has been suspended, in accordance
with this section, from using any parks, or from participating in any organized
program of the Department as a participant or as a spectator, the following
exceptions shall apply:
   (A)   A child under 18 years of age shall not be instructed to leave any
parks or recreation program until after a parent or guardian is contacted.
   (B)   Any person may participate in a public meeting of the town being
conducted at any parks.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 101.05 REFUNDS.
   If, due to suspension issued pursuant to this chapter, a person is unable to
attend an organized program of the Department for which such person is
registered, then the town shall issue a pro-rated refund, if any, for the
remainder of such program. Refunds will only be issued for individual based
programs. Refunds will not be issued for team-based programs under this
section.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 101.06 APPEALS.
   A written appeal of a suspension made pursuant to this chapter may be filed
with the Town Manager within 30 calendar days following the date of the
suspension notice. Upon the Town Manager's receipt of a written appeal, the
Town Manager or their designee will give such person an opportunity to be heard
in person or by electronic means. Within ten business days of said hearing, the
Town Manager or their designee will render a final, non-appealable decision
regarding the suspension. The Town Manager or their designee shall have the
authority to affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the Director.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 101.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to any other remedies available at law, any person found to be
in violation of suspension instituted pursuant to this chapter may be asked to
leave any parks, or organized program of the Department, and may be subject to
trespassing charges for failing to do so.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 12-5-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITATIONS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
112.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   ALCOHOL SALES
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax levied
   
110.03   Finance Officer; duties
   
110.04   License period; date due
   
110.05   License Application; false statement
   
110.06   Refusal or revocation of license
   
110.07   Proration of tax; seasonal businesses
   
110.08   Multiple businesses
   
110.09   Separate places of business
   
110.10   License content; display of license
   
110.11   Report of change
   
110.12   No abatement of tax
   
110.13   Effect of license
   
110.14   Exemptions
   
110.15   Duplicate of license
Schedule of License Tax
   
110.25   Schedule A business
   
110.26   Schedule B business
   
110.27   Schedule C business
   
110.28   Schedule D business
   
110.29   Computation of taxes
Enforcement and Collection
   
110.40   Conducting business without license prohibited
   
110.41   Notice and collection of deficiency
   
110.42   Appeal
   
110.43   Inspection of premises
   
110.44   Building and premises to comply with town regulations
   
110.45   Providing notice to applicant or licensee
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license businesses, see G.S. § 160A-194
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, business, franchise or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this chapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED (or ENGAGING) IN BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN. A person is considered
ENGAGED IN BUSINESS ACTIVITY of any type, either as owner or operator of that
business:
      (1)   By maintaining a business location within the town;
      (2)   By soliciting business within the town; or
      (3)   By picking up or delivering merchandise or performing services
within the town.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning July 1 and June 30 of the following year.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
association, partnership, company, firm or other legal entity or agent thereof.
   SEASONAL IN NATURE. When it is taxed by this chapter on an annual basis, but
is operated within the town for less than six months of the year.
(1985 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   A license tax shall be levied and collected each fiscal year on the
privilege of engaging in any business within the town which is listed in the
schedule of taxes as approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Any person so engaged in business shall be responsible for making
certain that the applicable license tax is paid. All licenses shall be a
personal privilege and non-transferable.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the
Board of Commissioners from imposing additional taxes from time to time, as
they may deem necessary, that are not specifically defined in this chapter, or
from increasing or decreasing the amount of any special license tax, or from
prohibiting or regulating the business or acts licensed, and all licenses are
granted subject to the provisions of existing ordinance or those thereafter
enacted.
(1985 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.03 FINANCE OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Finance Officer or their designee is designated as the proper
town official to collect license taxes and to issue privilege licenses.
   (B)   The Finance Officer is authorized to designate this authority to
members of his or her staff as deemed necessary and for purposes of this
section where Finance Officer is cited is will include his or her designee.
   (C)   (1)   The Finance Officer shall make any investigation necessary to
determine the tax liability of persons engaged in business within the town.
      (2)   If necessary, the Finance Officer is authorized to enter upon the
premises of any licensed business during normal business hours for the purpose
of determining whether this chapter has been complied with.
(1985 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.04 LICENSE PERIOD; DATE DUE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in the schedule of taxes in approved by the
Board of Commissioners, each privilege license issued shall cover the 12-month
period beginning July 1 of each calendar year and ending June 30 of the
subsequent year.
   (B)   The privilege license tax is due on July 1 of each year. If, however,
a person begins a business after July 1, the tax for that year must be paid
before the business is begun.
   (C)   No license shall be issued until all taxes due to the town are paid in
full.
(1985 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.05 LICENSE APPLICATION; FALSE STATEMENT.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of
engaging in a business within the town shall make application therefor in
writing to the Finance Officer. The application, to be made on a form provided
by the Finance Officer, shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, and whether the applicant is an
individual, partnership, corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The address where the business is conducted, and a mailing address
for the business, if different;
      (4)   The gross receipts of the business for the most recently completed
tax year, if applicable;
      (5)   If the applicant is a corporation, the name and address of the
applicant’s registered agent; and
      (6)   Any other information which the Finance Officer determines to be
necessary.
   (B)   No person shall willfully make a false statement on a license
application.
(1985 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Finance Officer shall refuse to issue a license required by
this chapter or shall revoke such license for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax
due or his or her qualifications for a license.
         (b)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to
compute the amount of tax due; or
         (c)   The applicant has not obtained a certificate of occupancy when
required to do so by local ordinance.
      (2)   At the applicant’s request, the Finance Officer shall give a
written statement of reason for refusing the license. The applicant may, within
ten days after the day he or she receives this statement, request a hearing to
discuss the refusal or revocation. In the applicant’s request, they shall
specify why the application should not be refused or revoked. The Finance
Officer shall arrange a hearing within a reasonable amount of time, but no
later than 30 days after the request for a hearing is received.
   (B)   All decisions made by the Finance Officer after a hearing are final
and may not be appealed.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.07 PRORATION OF TAX; SEASONAL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   If a business is begun on or after January 1 but before July 1, the
tax shall be one-half of the amount otherwise due.
   (B)   A person engaged in a business which is seasonal in nature is liable
for one-half of the amount of tax otherwise due.
(1985 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.08 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in more than one business and subject to a license
tax under this chapter, that person shall pay the license tax prescribed in the
tax schedule approved by the Board of Commissioners for each business, even if
the businesses are conducted at the same business location.
(1985 Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.09 SEPARATE PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by state law or by the tax schedule approved
by the Board of Commissioners, if a person engages in a business in two or more
separate places, a separate license tax shall be required for each like place
of business.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, if a person engages in the same business
at two or more locations within the town, which locations are contiguous,
communicate with and open directly into each other, and are operated as a unit,
the person is liable for only one license tax.
(1985 Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.10 LICENSE CONTENT; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall show the name of the
business licensed, the place where business is conducted, the nature of the
business, the period for which the license is issued, and the amount of tax
paid. Each person issued a license under this chapter shall post the license in
a conspicuous place in his or her regular place of business. If there is no
regular place of business, the license shall be kept where it may be inspected
at appropriate times by the Town Finance Officer. If a machine or other item of
personal property is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine or
item.
(1985 Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 REPORT OF CHANGE.
   A licensee shall report a change in the information contained in the
application for a license required by this chapter within ten days after the
change occurs.
   (A)   If the change results in a separate or additional tax, the Finance
Officer shall reissue a license reflecting the change in payment.
   (B)   If the change does not result in a separate or additional tax, but the
change affects the information on the face of privilege license, the Finance
Officer shall reissue a license reflecting the change in information.
(1985 Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.12 NO ABATEMENT OF TAX.
   If a licensee discontinues a business before the end of the period for which
the license was issued, the license tax shall not be abated nor shall a refund
of any part of the license tax be made.
(1985 Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.13 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   The issuance of a license under this chapter does not authorize the carrying
on of a business for which additional licenses or qualifications are required
by state or local law, nor does the issuance of a license prevent the town from
enacting additional regulations applicable to the licensee.
(1985 Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.14 EXEMPTIONS.
   Except as herein provided or as provided by state law or in the schedule of
license taxes hereinafter set forth, there shall be no exemption of any person
from the payment of the license taxes levied by this chapter.
   (A)   Any person who engages in business within the town for religious,
educational or charitable purposes shall be exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any blind person engaging in business within the town shall be exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this chapter to the extent
provided by G.S. Ch. 105.
   (C)   Any person serving in any branch of the armed forces of the United
States or in the merchant marine, and desiring to engage in business within the
town, shall be exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
chapter during the period of that service, to the extent provided by G.S. Ch.
105.
   (D)   Every person engaging in any business upon which there is levied a
license tax by this chapter, but which person is, by some provision of this
chapter exempt from the payment of such license tax, shall, nevertheless,
secure from the town Finance Officer a license to engage in such business,
which license shall show upon its face that the licensee is exempt from the
payment of the license tax and shall cite the section of this chapter which is
the authority therefore.
(1985 Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.15 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license issued pursuant to this chapter has
been lost or destroyed, the Finance Officer shall furnish a duplicate license
for a fee equal to 50% of the amount of the original tax.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAX
§ 110.25 SCHEDULE A BUSINESS.
   All business not specifically listed in Schedules B, C, or D of the schedule
of taxes approved by the Board of Commissioners shall fall under the category
of Schedule A. The rate for the privilege license for any Schedule A business
will be based on the type of business conducted. The privilege license tax
applicable to businesses that are subject to a privilege license tax under
Schedule A shall be listed under Schedule A of the schedule of taxes as
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.26 SCHEDULE B BUSINESS.
   Schedule B businesses are businesses for which the privilege license taxes
are regulated by the State of North Carolina. Such businesses whose license
taxes are regulated by the state shall be listed under Schedule B of the
schedule of taxes as approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.27 SCHEDULE C BUSINESS.
   Schedule C businesses are types of businesses that are exempted from paying
privilege license taxes by North Carolina General Statutes. These include, but
are not limited to, alcoholic beverage businesses, amusements - motion
pictures, certain dealers, utilities, and certain occupations and professions
subject to licensing boards. Such businesses that are exempt from paying
privilege license taxes shall be listed under Schedule B of the schedule
business taxes as approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.28 SCHEDULE D BUSINESS.
   Schedule D includes beer and wine licenses regulated by the state of North
Carolina. Payment of beer and wine licenses are subject to the same collection,
interest, and delinquency procedures as regular licenses; however, beer and
wine licenses are not subject to pro-ration.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.29 COMPUTATION OF TAXES.
   If a business conducts multiple business activities, the business shall be
charged for each fee that is applicable under Schedules A, B. or C.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 110.40 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent to engage in a
business within the town upon which a privilege license tax is imposed by this
chapter, without having paid the license tax and obtaining the license.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 2012, a violation of this §
110.40 by any person, firm or corporation shall subject the offender to a fine
of not more than $50. Each day of engaging in business in violation of this §
110.40 constitutes a separate offense. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the
criminal penally for a violation of this §
110.40 as set out in G.S. § 14-4 is hereby removed. Civil penalties may be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of the debt.
Additionally, the town may seek an injunction against any person engaging in
business in violation of this section.
   (C)   Payment or relief of penalty for operation without a license is an
offense onto itself and such payment or relief does not relieve a person, firm
or corporation of liability for license tax or other taxes imposed under this
chapter or the remedies and penalties associated with failure to pay or late
payment of such taxes.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008; Ord. 2013-04, passed 7-18-2012)
§ 110.41 NOTICE AND COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of the required privilege license tax, the Finance
Officer may use either of the following methods to collect the unpaid tax:
      (1)   The remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
      (2)   The remedy of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer in accordance with G.S. § 105-109(d).
      (3)   Criminal or civil penalties in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   A written notice of deficiency shall be provide to the licensee,
stating:
      (1)   The amount of tax due;
      (2)   The amount paid to date;
      (3)   The balance owed;
      (4)   The manner and time period in which the person may respond to the
notice of deficiency; and
      (5)   The consequences if the licensee fails to respond as specified.
   (C)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of such tax is liable for an additional tax of 5%
of the original tax due for each 30 days or portion thereof that the tax is
delinquent.
(1985 Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.42 APPEAL.
   If the applicant disputes the amount of tax levied by this chapter, he or
she may request a hearing with the Finance Officer. All requests for hearings
must be made in writing to the Finance Officer and state the basis of the
appeal. The Finance Officer shall arrange a hearing within a reasonable time,
but no later than 30 days after the request for a hearing is received.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.43 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this code or any applicable ordinance of the town, or are reasonably
necessary to secure compliance with any applicable code or ordinance provision
or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the
person in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit thereto for the
purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the town who is
authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that
admission is requested.
   (B)   When an analysis or any commodity or material is reasonably necessary
to secure conformance with any applicable code or ordinance provisions or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose business
is governed by such provisions to give to any authorized officer or employee of
the town requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity
for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Finance
Director may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business in town who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make such inspection to take such sample to make the inspection
or take an adequate sample of the commodity, or who interferes with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his or her duty in making such
inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless
written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises,
in the name of the town, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at
the time is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.44 BUILDING AND PREMISES TO COMPLY WITH TOWN REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the premises
and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with, including but
not limited to, the ordinances, policies, or requirements of the town. No such
license shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would include a violation of any unified development code provision
or other applicable unified development ordinance of the town.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.45 PROVIDING NOTICE TO APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires written statement or notice to an applicant
or licensee, the statement or notice shall be delivered using one of the
following methods:
   (A)   Personal delivery, where a signature by the applicant to licensee is
required; or
   (B)   Mail the state or notice by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the address specified for that purpose in the license
application.
(Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not more than
30 days. Each day that a person engages in business in violation of this
chapter constitutes a separate offense. Payment or relief of penalty does not
relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
This chapter may be enforced by one, all, or any combination of the remedies
authorized and prescribed by this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 2008-61, passed 6-11-2008)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITATIONS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permit
   
111.04   Fee
 
   
111.05   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare by regulating the solicitation and businesses activities of itinerant
merchants, salesmen, promoters, drummers, peddlers, and hawkers within the
town. This article will provide the policy and procedures for conducting
criminal history checks as permissible by law for all permit applicants.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A merchant other than an established retail merchant in
the town, who transports goods to a building, vacant lot, alley, or other
location and who, at that location, displays the goods for sale and sells the
goods at retail or offers the goods for sale at retail for less than six
consecutive months.
   PEDDLER. A person, whether referred to as a peddler or hawker, who travels
from place to place or door to door of residences with inventory and offers for
sale at retail the actual inventory and who delivers the actual goods, wares or
merchandise sold, occupying no space for more than 30 minutes during a 24-hour
period.
   SALESMAN. A person, whether referred to as a salesman, drummer, or promoter,
who travels by any means from place to place or door to door of residences for
the purpose of taking or attempting to take orders for goods, wares,
merchandise or services whether for present or future delivery or performance.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 111.03 PERMIT.
   (A)   No itinerant merchant, peddler and/or salesman shall operate in the
town without first obtaining a permit under this chapter from the Town of
Zebulon Planning Department.
   (B)   Every application for permit under this chapter shall be reviewed with
a final determination being issued within two business days of the submittal,
unless there are any unforeseen circumstances or extenuating circumstances.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   A peddler or itinerant merchant who sells only one or more of the
following types of merchandise:
         (a)   Farm or nursery products produced by the merchant;
         (b)   Crafts or goods made by the merchant;
         (c)   The merchant’s own household personal property;
         (d)   Printed material;
         (e)   Wood for fuel; or
         (f)   Ice, seafood, meat, poultry, livestock, eggs, dairy products,
bread, cakes, or pies;
      (2)   A peddler or itinerant merchant who is an authorized automobile
dealer licensed pursuant to the North Carolina General Statutes;
      (3)   A peddler or itinerant merchant who is a nonprofit charitable,
educational, religious, scientific, or civic organization operating under the
laws of the State of North Carolina and the Unified States of America; or
      (4)   Any additional exemptions as authorized bv the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   (D)   Every application for permit under this chapter shall be made under
oath and shall contain or be accompanied by the following information or
material:
      (1)   A state issued identification card;
      (2)   The applicant’s physical description, full name, date of birth,
social security number, full address, a description of the product or service
that he or she is offering for sale and the name, address and telephone number
of the product vendor;
      (3)   The name address and telephone number of the individual having
management or supervisory authority over the applicant’s business, and if a
corporation, the name and registered agent of the corporation and the address
of the registered office of the corporation, as filed with the Secretary of
State;
      (4)   A complete statement of all convictions, arrest, or pending charges
of any person whose name is required to be given in subsection (B)(2) of this
section for any felony or any crime involving fraud, theft, or the receiving or
possession of stolen goods;
      (5)   If a vehicle is to be used, complete description of the vehicle
including make, model, year, color, and registration plate number; and
      (6)   Submission of fingerprints by the applicant.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the Zebulon Police Department will
conduct a background check on the applicant.
      (1)   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, will conduct a search of
the applicants criminal history utilizing departmental approved information
databases.
      (2)   The criminal records check will be conducted to verify the
applicant’s qualifications, pursuant to the conditions of this article, for
issuance of the requested permit.
      (3)   The results of the criminal background check will be reviewed by
the Zebulon Police Chief and recommendations for permit issuance will be
forwarded to the Zebulon Planning Department.
      (4)   Upon approval of the applicant’s permit, the Police Department will
then photograph and fingerprint the applicants.
      (5)   Evidence that the applicant has been involved in one or more of the
following shall constitute valid reasons for disapproval of the application:
conviction or currently pending charges of any felony or serious misdemeanor,
or conviction of a misdemeanor carrying a penalty of imprisonment of not less
than 90 days; or any crime involving moral turpitude; or willfully presenting a
fraudulent application for permit, or any tangible evidence that the
applicant’s business will pose a substantial threat to the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare.
      (6)   No permit will be approved or denied until the verification process
has been completed.
   (F)   Upon issuance of this permit, the permit shall designate the date and
hour of issue and expiration. The maximum duration of a permit shall be for a
period of 90 days from the date of issuance.
   (G)   The holder of the permit shall first present such permit to any person
before attempting to offer an article for sale to such person.
   (H)   Hours for door-to-door sales are restricted to the hours of 9:00 a.m.
to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday.
   (I)   The Planning Director or his or her designee has the authority to deny
or revoke a permit for just cause under this section.
      (1)   A permit shall not be issued:
         (a)   To any person who has been convicted or has pending charges of
any felony, or serious misdemeanor, or conviction of a misdemeanor carrying a
penalty of imprisonment of not less than 90 days; or any crime involving moral
turpitude; willfully presents a fraudulent application for permit, or any
tangible evidence that the applicant’s business will pose a substantial threat
to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare;
         (b)   To any person previously denied or having had a permit revoked
pursuant to this chapter; or
         (c)   For other lawful reasons consistent with North Carolina law
justifying the denial of a permit.
      (2)   A permit may be revoked if it is determined that:
         (a)   The holder of the permit violates any provision of this chapter;
         (b)   The holder would no longer qualify for the issuance of a permit;
or
         (c)   The holder of this permit conducts business in a manner
constituting a public nuisance, a breach of the peace, or an offense against
private property rights.
      (3)   At the applicant’s request, the Planning Director shall give a
written statement of reason for refusing or revoking a permit. The applicant
may, within ten days after the day he or she receives this statement, request a
hearing to discuss the refusal or revocation. In the applicant’s request, they
shall specify why the application should not be refused or revoked. The
Planning Director shall arrange a hearing within a reasonable amount of time,
but no later than ten business days after the request for a hearing is
received. The determination of the Planning Director, after a hearing, is final
and may not be appealed.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 111.04 FEE.
   (A)   Every applicant will pay, at the time of application, a fee, as
established by the Zebulon Board of Commissioners for the creation of the
fingerprint cards.
   (B)   Every applicant will pay at the time of issuance of the permit, a fee,
as established in the Town of Zebulon fee schedule at the time of application.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-6-2013)
§ 111.05 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall constitute regulation of Itinerant
merchants in accordance with the Town of Zebulon Ordinance
Chapter 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITATIONS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS and with G.S. §
160A-178. The penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
governed by §
10.98 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES of the Town of Zebulon Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-6-2013)
CHAPTER 112: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool, Billiards and Similar Amusements
   
112.01   License from Board of Commissioners required
   
112.02   Board of Commissioners; discretion in issuance of license
   
112.03   Application for license; contents
   
112.04   Licenses nontransferable
   
112.05   Applications to be accompanied by fee
   
112.06   Opening and closing hours
   
112.07   Unlawful for certain persons to enter
   
112.08   Betting prohibited
   
112.09   Acts prohibited to licensees and employees
   
112.10   Revocation of license
   
112.99   Penalty
POOL, BILLIARDS AND SIMILAR AMUSEMENTS
§ 112.01 LICENSE FROM BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REQUIRED.
   No person shall maintain or operate any pool or billiard table, bowling
alley, amusement center or any other table or alley for any game or play, for
which a charge is directly or indirectly made, without a license therefor
issued by the Board of Commissioners, it being the intent of the section that
the tables, alleys and amusement centers, except those in private homes, shall
not be operated unless licensed by the Board of Commissioners.
(1985 Code, § 112.01) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license billiard and pool tables, see G.S. § 160A-194
§ 112.02 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; DISCRETION IN ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the sole power, in its discretion, to
determine the fitness and qualifications of an applicant for a license. The
Board of Commissioners shall inquire into the character of the applicant and
the location, general appearance and type of place or business proposed by the
applicant as set forth more particularly in §
112.03 below. The Board may, after a hearing, of which reasonable notice shall
be given the licensee as the Board may direct, deny the license application.
(1985 Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Each applicant seeking a license to operate an establishment described
in §
112.01 above shall make a written application to the Board of Commissioners on
the appropriate form approved by the Board of Commissioners and shall be filed
with the Town Clerk. The application shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following information and the applicant shall state under oath therein:
      (1)   The name, Social Security number and address of the applicant and
the length of the applicant’s residence in the state;
      (2)   The particular place for which the license is desired, designating
the same by street and number if practicable; if not, by other apt description
as definitely locates it;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the proposed
business is to be carried on, and, if the owner is not the applicant, that the
applicant is the actual and bona fide lessee of the premises;
      (4)   That the place or building in which the applicant proposes to do
business conforms to all health and fire regulations applicable thereto, and is
a safe and proper place or building;
      (5)   That the applicant intends to carry on the business authorized by
the license for himself or herself or under his or her immediate supervision
and direction;
      (6)   That the applicant is not less than 21 years of age;
      (7)   The place of birth of the applicant and, if a naturalized citizen,
when and where naturalized;
      (8)   That the applicant has not been convicted of, or entered a plea of
guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude
within the past three years. It shall be within the discretion of the Board of
Commissioners, after making investigation, to determine whether any person who
has ever been convicted of, or entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a
felony shall be deemed a suitable person to receive and hold a like license;
      (9)   That the applicant has not during the three years next preceding
the date of the application had any business or privilege license or permit
issued to him or her or any kind revoked or suspended. It shall be within the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners, after investigation, to determine
whether one who has experienced the revocation or suspension of a business or
privilege license or permit shall be deemed a suitable person to receive and
hold a like license;
      (10)   If the applicant is an unincorporated association, joint venture
or partnership, the application shall state the matters required in divisions
(A)(6), (7), (8) and (9) above, with respect to each of the members thereof;
and
      (11)   If the applicant is a corporation, organized or authorized to do
business in this state, the application shall state the matters required in
divisions (A)(7), (8) and (9) above with respect to each of the officers and
directors thereof, and any stockholder owning more than 25% of the stock of the
corporation, and the person who shall conduct or manage the licensed premises
for the corporation.
   (B)   The application must be verified by the affidavit of the applicant
before a notary public or other person authorized to administer oaths. If the
Board of Commissioners, in its discretion, determines that the applicant fails
to qualify for the license, or if any false statement is knowingly made in any
application, the applicant shall be denied a license after a hearing of which
reasonable notice shall be given the licensee as the Board may direct. If a
license is issued pursuant to any application containing a false statement
knowingly made, it shall be revoked in accordance with §
112.10 below. In addition to the information furnished in any application, the
Town Manager shall at the request of the Board of Commissioners make additional
and independent investigation of each applicant and of the place to be
occupied.
(1985 Code, § 112.03)
§ 112.04 LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to §
112.03 above may not be transferred. If the licensee wishes to transfer control
or management, ownership or responsibility for the licensed establishment to
another, the transferee must apply for and receive a license before commencing
operation of the establishment.
(1985 Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 APPLICATIONS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY FEE.
   Applications shall be accompanied by the license tax required by
Chapter 110 above.
(1985 Code, § 112.05)
§ 112.06 OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   No licensee and no employee of any licensee shall open, or allow to
remain open, any hall or room operated under §
112.01 above, before 6:00 a.m. or after 12:00 a.m., or at any time on Sunday.
   (B)   This section shall also apply to the use and operation of pool,
pocket-billiards, billiard and bagatelle tables for hire or charge (other than
the tax or license thereon) and shall include any person using, or any firm or
corporation operating or permitting in their place of business, the operation
of one or more like tables, whether the same are of standard size or smaller
and whether payment for the use thereof is made by depositing coins in a slot
or otherwise.
(1985 Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 UNLAWFUL FOR CERTAIN PERSONS TO ENTER.
   No person under 18 years of age shall enter any hall or room operated under
§
112.01 above which sells alcoholic beverages.
(1985 Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 BETTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bet on any game played on any table or in any alley of any
kind mentioned in §
112.01 above.
(1985 Code, § 112.08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 ACTS PROHIBITED TO LICENSEES AND EMPLOYEES.
   No licensee and no employee of any licensee shall:
   (A)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly;
   (B)   Suffer or permit any minor to enter or remain in or on the licensed
premises, as defined in §
112.07 above; or
   (C)   Suffer or permit any betting upon the licensed premises, as defined in
§
112.08 above.
(1985 Code, § 112.09) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A second conviction for a violation of any provision of this
subchapter shall automatically act as a revocation of any license.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may, at any other time, for cause, and
after a hearing, of which reasonable notice shall be given the licensee as the
Board of Commissioners may direct, revoke any license issued hereunder.
(1985 Code, § 112.10)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $50, or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each and every day that the violation
shall occur or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   A conviction for a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a basis for suspension of any license in the discretion of the Board
of Commissioners.
(1985 Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOL SALES
Section
   
113.01   Alcohol sales on Sunday
§ 113.01 ALCOHOL SALES ON SUNDAY.
   Any establishment located in the corporate limits of the Town of Zebulon and
holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 by the State of North
Carolina, is permitted to sell alcoholic beverages allowed by its permit
beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2020-40, passed 2-3-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on town property
   
130.02   Defacing public property
   
130.03   Damaging town fixtures
   
130.04   Forbidding certain persons to enter public property
   
130.05   Reserved
   
130.06   Smoking
   
130.07   Enforcement of trespass agreements
   
130.08   Graffiti
§ 130.01 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to consume alcoholic beverages on public streets
or on property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to possess an open container of alcoholic
beverages on public streets or on property owned, occupied, or controlled by
the town.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following
locations and/or events, upon obtaining a valid ABC permit:
      (1)   Restaurants, private lounges, designated areas at Five County
Stadium, or receptions in areas designated by the Town of Zebulon.
      (2)   Receptions, fundraising events, or other events and activities
designated by the Town Manager or designee.
      (3)   Permits as approved by the Chief of Police.
      (4)   Events on public streets, alleys, or parking lots within the town
which are temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events as permitted
by the Town of Zebulon.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, an OPEN CONTAINER means a container
whose seal has been broken or a container other than the manufacturer’s
unopened original container.
   (E)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES includes intoxicating liquor, malt beverages, wine
(fortified or unfortified) shall be as defined in G.S. Ch. 18B.
   (F)   Effective July 1, 2012, violation of this §
130.01 shall subject the offender to civil penalties of not more than $50.
Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, all criminal penalties for these violations as set
out in G.S. § 14-4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties may be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the nature of the debt.
(1985 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 2010-05, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2013-01, passed 7-
18-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Drinking on public property, see G.S. § 18B-301
§ 130.02 DEFACING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark or deface the walls of any
public building or waiting room, or the paved sidewalk of any street.
(1985 Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Defacing walls of public building prohibited, see G.S. § 14-132(b)
§ 130.03 DAMAGING TOWN FIXTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, break or otherwise tamper
with any lamp, wire or other fixture of the town.
(1985 Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 FORBIDDING CERTAIN PERSONS TO ENTER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after being forbidden to do so by any
member of the police force of the town, to remain, go or enter on the grounds
or premises of any service station, drive-in theater, supermarket, store,
restaurant, office building or other business or municipal establishment,
providing parking space for customers, patrons or the public within the
corporate limits of the town, including any drive, driveway, road, roadway,
street, alley or parking area on the grounds and premises, when the owner or
other person in legal possession of the grounds and premises has provided to
the Police Department written authority to forbid any person to remain, go or
enter on the grounds and premises.
(1985 Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Entering land after being forbidden to do so, see G.S. § 14-159.13
§ 130.05 RESERVED.
§ 130.06 SMOKING.
   (A)   Scope. This section shall be applicable to all buildings owned, leased
or occupied by the town, or by any of its departments or agencies.
   (B)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority of G.S. §
160A-174.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the health, safety
and welfare of municipal employees. It is also in the public interest to
improve indoor air quality, reduce fire hazards, and minimize any health risks
associated with involuntary exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.
   (D)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, SMOKING shall mean the
inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette or
other combustible tobacco product.
   (E)   Municipal building. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in
any building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased, operated,
occupied, managed or controlled by the town. However, the Town Manager has the
authority to designate a smoking area, as he or she deems necessary.
   (F)   Municipal vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or
carry a lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe in any vehicle now or hereafter owned
or leased by the town.
   (G)   Notice. In every building regulated by this section shall be posted
the following clear and conspicuous signs:
      (1)   “No Smoking” or other like signs shall have letters of not less
than one inch in height, or the international “no smoking” symbol (consisting
of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed within a red
circle crossed by a red bar) no smaller then three inches in diameter.
      (2)   Signs shall be posted in a position clearly visible on entry into
every town building.
   (H)   Penalty.
      (1)   General. Effective July 1, 2012, violation of this §
130.06 shall subject the offender to civil penalties of not more than $200.
Pursuant to G.S. 160A-175, all criminal penalties for these violations as set
out in G.S. 14-4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties may be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the nature of the debt.
      (2)   Town employees. In addition to the general penalty stated above,
town employees in violation of this section shall be subject to progressive
disciplinary action under the town’s personnel policies, which could lead to
dismissal.
(1985 Code, § 130.06) (Ord. 2013-01, passed 7-18-2012)
§ 130.07 ENFORCEMENT OF TRESPASS AGREEMENTS.
   The members of the Zebulon Police Department, including reserve officers may
act as agents for property owners and tenants to enforce regulations against
trespassing on private property located within the corporate limits of the
town. The enforcement must be at the request of the property owner(s) or their
legal tenants and in accordance with a signed agreement between the property
owner or tenant and the Zebulon Police Department.
(Ord. 2004-51, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 130.08 GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Purpose statement. It is the desire of the town to prohibit graffiti
as defined in the definitions provided in this section. The town finds that the
speedy removal of graffiti from both public and private property will not only
serve to preserve the aesthetic quality, economic property values, and
livability of neighborhoods and business districts, but it will also serve to
help reduce the gang activity and gang violence in the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscriptions, word, figure, painting, or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted,
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public, private, real or
personal property by any means other than by use of chalk or any such
defacement, irrespective of whether authorized by the owner, which is found to
be a public nuisance by the town.
      GRAFFITI REMOVAL NOTICE. The written notice given to the property contact
person noticing them of the need to abate a nuisance.
      PROPERTY CONTACT NUISANCE. The person, including the individual, firm,
partnership, or corporation, and their agents or employees, who has the
authority to maintain the affected real property, whether it is the occupant
owner, occupant or managing agent.
      REMOVE GRAFFITI. To clean and/or appropriately paint over the graffiti,
including any repairs to a structure’s cladding reasonably required to neatly
complete the removal.
      TOWN REMOVAL. Removal by the town, or its designee with the town’s powers
to abate a nuisance.
   (C)   Notice of removal. Written notice shall be given the to property owner
and the contact person by certified US Mail at the earliest time practicable
after the initial report is filed with the appropriate department.
   (D)   Removal of graffiti. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the property owner and the contact person
to take all appropriate and responsible steps necessary to remove the graffiti
by the end of the third business after receiving notice of the violation.
      (2)   Graffiti removal shall be done in a manner acceptable to the town.
      (3)   If the property owner fails to remove the graffiti in a manner
acceptable to the town by the end of the third business day, the town will
remove the graffiti and the owner shall be responsible for all fees and costs,
associated with removal.
   (E)   Enforcement. The existence of graffiti on public, private, real or
personal property in violation of this section is expressly declared to be a
public nuisance and, therefore, is subject to the removal and abatement
provisions specified in this section and as otherwise stated in the town code.
Effective July 1, 2012, violation of this §
130.08 shall subject the offender to civil penalties of not more than $50.
Pursuant to G.S. 160A-175, all criminal penalties for violations of this §
130.08 as set out in G.S. 14-4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties may be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of the debt.
(Ord. 2008-39, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2013-01, passed 7-18-2012)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Shooting firearms
   
131.03   Reserved
   
131.04   Interfering with persons or property; or begging/panhandling
   
131.05   Discharge of non-firearm projectiles
   
131.06   Regulation of animals in public
   
131.07   Prohibition of solicitation of contributions, employment and business
upon highways or streets
   
131.08   Loitering; engaging in drug-related activity
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do or engage in any of the following or shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct:
   (A)   Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any
person is placed in fear or safety of his or her life, limb or health;
   (B)   Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby property
of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   (C)   Endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry threats
or abusive conduct;
   (D)   Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as
to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
   (E)   Assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of
causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
   (F)   Be found jostling or roughly crowding or pushing any person in any
public place;
   (G)   Collect in bodies or in crowds for unlawful purposes;
   (H)   Utter any abusive language which is intended and plainly likely to
provoke retaliation and thereby cause a breach of the peace; or
   (I)   Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to
halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear the
public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having
authority.
(1985 Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see G.S. § 14-288.4
§ 131.02 SHOOTING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, or discharge in any way, any
air rifle, air pistol or other firearm, using as ammunition a shot, pellet,
ball or any other type of missile, within the town limits.
(1985 Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Using firearms during state of emergency, see §
93.03
   Using firearms to destroy dangerous animals, see §
91.11
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
§ 131.03 RESERVED.
§ 131.04 INTERFERING WITH PERSONS OR PROPERTY; OR BEGGING/PANHANDLING.
   (A)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person on the streets,
sidewalks or other public places, within the corporate limits of the town to:
      (1)   Interfere with or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Accost or force oneself upon the company of another;
      (3)   Aggressively coerce, intimidate or harass for the purpose of
soliciting alms, or begging charity for the private benefit of the solicitor or
any other person whether in the form of money or goods.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to engage in begging, panhandling, soliciting
alms or contributions from another person at any location between sunset and 9:
00 a.m. or at any time within 100 feet of an automated teller machine or at any
other machine at which money is dispensed to the public.
   (B)   Definitions.
   ACCOST OR FORCE ONESELF UPON. Approaching or speaking to an individual or
individuals in a manner that would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent
bodily harm, continuing to beg in close proximity even after a negative
response or blocking the passage of the individual addressed.
   AGGRESSIVELY COERCE, INTIMIDATE or HARASS. Making physical contact with,
threatening or violent gestures toward, torment persistently or frighten an
individual into submission or obedience.
    INTERFERE WITH OR OBSTRUCT. To walk, stand, sit, lie or place an object in
a manner so as to block passage by another person or vehicle, or to require a
person or vehicle to take evasive action to avoid physical contact.
   STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR OTHER PUBLIC PLACES. An area generally visible to
public view and includes alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots,
parks, plazas, sidewalks and streets open to the general public.
(1985 Code, § 131.05) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of begging, see G.S. § 160A-179
§ 131.05 DISCHARGE OF NON-FIREARM PROJECTILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to endanger the person or property of
another by discharge of any projectile or similar device in a reckless or
negligent manner anywhere within the town limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a non-firearm in such
a way as will, or is likely to result in the projectile thereof leaving the
property upon which the non-firearm is lawfully discharged.
   (C)   Provided, however that use of like non-firearm device is lawful when
conducted for purposes of leisure of sports and on the subject property or
property of another with permission, or at an otherwise legally constructed
facility for that purpose.
(1985 Code, § 131.06) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 REGULATION OF ANIMALS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Persons walking an animal in public are required to employ the aid of
a leash no more than 15 feet in length and are further mandated to have
complete control of the animal at all times thereby preventing attacks upon
other persons and providing for the safety of the animal.
   (B)   Cats are to be excluded from this section.
(1985 Code, § 131.07) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 PROHIBITION OF SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS, EMPLOYMENT AND BUSINESS
UPON HIGHWAYS OR STREETS
   (A)   No pedestrian shall stand or loiter in any street or highway,
including the shoulders and median of the street or highway, or stop any motor
vehicle traveling in any street or highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions, employment or business from any driver or occupant of any motor
vehicle in the corporate limits of the Town of Zebulon.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to employees or
contractors of the State of North Carolina or any of its political subdivision
engaged in construction or maintenance or in making traffic or engineering
surveys. Furthermore, the provisions of this section are not applicable to
employees or contractors of the State of North Carolina or any of its political
subdivisions that are performing a public safety related function.
   (C)   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this
section. If any sentence, clause or phrase of this section is held invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then that judgment shall
in no way affect or impair the validity of the remaining portions of this
section.
(Ord. 2004-48, passed 6-7-2004) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 LOITERING; ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER. A person who has been
convicted in any court within this state of any crime involving the use,
possession or sale of any substances referred to in the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq., or has been convicted of any
violation of any substantially similar law of any political subdivision of this
state or of any other state or of the United States.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public streets, public highways, public sidewalks,
public vehicular areas, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01, public parks and plazas,
other publicly owned or leased property, public transportation facilities and
grounds, schools and school grounds, common areas of apartment and condominium
communities, common areas of public housing projects, places of business or
amusement which are open to the public, any private property which adjoins any
of the above-described areas and to which the public has ready access, any
other property which is open to the public, whether publicly or privately
owned, and motor vehicles in or on the above-described areas.
      REPEATEDLY. Three or more times.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander
about in a public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting a
purpose to engage in a violation of any provision of the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq. These circumstances may
include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by,
or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Being a known unlawful user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   Behaving in a manner so as to create a reasonable suspicion, as
defined by the United States Supreme Court, that he or she may be about to
engage in or has just engaged in an unlawful drug-related activity;
      (6)   Repeatedly passing to or receiving from passers-by, whether on foot
or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (7)   Attempting to flee or evade a police officer;
      (8)   Being at a location frequented by persons who use, possess or sell
drugs;
      (9)   Occupying a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug
user, possessor or seller, or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-
related activity; or
      (10)   Stopping, conversing with the occupants of, handing money or any
object to the occupants of, or receiving money or any object from the occupants
of a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug user, possessor or
seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-related activity.
(Ord. 2004-52, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2012, violation of §
131.01 (disorderly conduct) shall be a misdemeanor punishable with a fine not
to exceed $500 as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 2012, unless otherwise provided in §
131.99, a violation of chapter shall subject the offender to civil penalties of
not more than $500. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, all criminal penalties for
these violations as set out in G.S. § 14-4 are hereby removed. Civil penalties
may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of the debt.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-19-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   STORMWATER
      
152.   (RESERVED)
      
153.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
Adoption of Regulatory Codes
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Jurisdiction
   
150.03   Amendments to codes
   
150.04   The most restrictive provisions control in case of conflict
   
150.05   Adoption of State Building Code
   
150.06   Adoption of State Residential Building Code
   
150.07   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
150.08   Adoption of State Plumbing Code
   
150.09   Filing copies of codes
   
150.10   Compliance with codes
Building Permits
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Commencement to begin within specified time
   
150.22   Building inspections
   
150.23   Fees
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES
§ 150.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted shall
apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building and structure or any appurtenances
connected, attached or used in connection with any building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of building sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water systems and all fixtures and appurtenances thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, air conditioning, or refrigeration
systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1985 Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.02 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted shall
apply within the corporate limits of the town and within the territory beyond
and surrounding the corporate limits for a distance of one mile in all
directions.
(1985 Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this chapter,
which are from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to herein, shall be effective within the town and the
territory beyond and surrounding the corporate limits for a distance of one
mile in all directions from and after the time the amendments are filed with
the Town Clerk or County Building Inspector.
(1985 Code, § 150.03)
§ 150.04 THE MOST RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS CONTROL IN CASE OF CONFLICT.
   In the event of conflict between provisions of this chapter and provisions
of any code hereinafter incorporated by reference thereto, or in the event of
conflict between any of the codes, the more restrictive provisions shall in
each case control the conflict. All provisions of all codes shall apply to the
town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction including those provisions which
might otherwise be inoperative because of population limitations.
(1985 Code, § 150.04)
§ 150.05 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume
I, General Construction, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council, is adopted as the Building Code of the town and is incorporated herein
by reference thereto as fully as though completely set forth herein.
(1985 Code, § 150.05)
§ 150.06 ADOPTION OF STATE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Inspectors Association, and as
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council is adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth herein as the Residential Building Code for one
and two-family residential buildings in the town.
(1985 Code, § 150.06)
§ 150.07 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The National Electrical Code is adopted as the Electrical Code of the town;
and the most current edition of the National Electrical Code is incorporated
herein by reference thereto as fully as if completely set forth herein.
(1985 Code, § 150.07)
§ 150.08 ADOPTION OF STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   The Southern Standard Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing (the most current
edition thereof), is adopted as the Plumbing Code of the town; and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto as fully as if completely set forth
herein.
(1985 Code, § 150.08)
§ 150.09 FILING COPIES OF CODES.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein and official copies
of all amendments thereto shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk, and shall be shown to any interested person upon application therefor.
These copies shall be the official copies of the codes and amendments.
(1985 Code, § 150.09)
§ 150.10 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I, General
Construction, or the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code,
whichever is applicable, or of both, if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the National Electrical Code.
(1985 Code, § 150.10)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, build or repair any building or structure, of any kind or
description, or cause or authorize erection, construction or repair of the same
on any lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits or within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town, or make any improvements thereon
until that person, firm or corporation first obtains a building permit from
Wake County.
(1985 Code, § 150.20) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 COMMENCEMENT TO BEGIN WITHIN SPECIFIED TIME.
   Any building permit issued by the county shall become and be null and void
unless the building, building repairs and installation or other construction
shall have been commenced within the time established by the county.
(1985 Code, § 150.21)
§ 150.22 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   Building inspections shall be performed by the appropriate county official.
(1985 Code, § 150.22)
§ 150.23 FEES.
   Building permit fees shall be in the amount as set forth by the county.
(1985 Code, § 150.23)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this chapter for which another penalty is not provided
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more
than $50, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 150.99)
CHAPTER 151: STORMWATER
Section:
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Authority
   
151.03   Findings
   
151.04   Purpose
   
151.05   Applicability; jurisdiction
   
151.06   Interpretation
   
151.07   North Carolina Stormwater Best Management Practices Design Manual
   
151.08   Relationship to other laws, regulations and private agreements
   
151.09   Severability
   
151.10   Definitions
Administration and Procedures
   
151.20   Review and decision-making entities
   
151.21   Review procedures
   
151.22   Applications for approval
   
151.23   Approvals
   
151.24   Appeals
Standards
   
151.35   Standards based on project density
   
151.36   General standards
   
151.37   Onsite wastewater
Completion of Improvements and Maintenance
   
151.50   Performance security for installation and maintenance of improvements
   
151.51   As-built plans and final approval
   
151.52   Maintenance of improvements
   
151.53   Inspection program
   
151.54   Signage
   
151.55   Records of installation and maintenance activities
   
151.56   Nuisance
Illicit Discharges
   
151.65   Illicit discharges and connections
Enforcement and Violations
   
151.97   General
   
151.98   Procedures
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be officially known as “The Post-Construction Stormwater
Ordinance.” It is referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Board is authorized to adopt this ordinance pursuant to North
Carolina law, including but not limited to Article 14, Section 5 of the
Constitution of North Carolina; the Charter of the Town of Zebulon; G.S. § 143-
214.7 and rules promulgated by the Environmental Management Commission
thereunder; Session Law 2004-163; Chapter 160D, §§ 174, and 185.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 151.03 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Development and redevelopment alter the hydrologic response of local
watersheds and increase stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, soil
erosion, stream channel erosion, nonpoint and point source pollution, and
sediment transport and deposition, as well as reducing groundwater recharge;
   (B)   These effects can be managed and minimized by applying proper design
and well-planned controls to manage stormwater runoff from development sites.
   (C)   Further, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (“Clean Water
Act”) and federal Phase II Stormwater Rules promulgated under it compel the
town to adopt minimum stormwater controls such as those included in this
chapter.
   (D)   Therefore, the town establishes this set of water quality and quantity
regulations to meet the requirements of state and federal law regarding control
of stormwater runoff and discharge.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.04 PURPOSE.
   (A)   General. The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain and
enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by
establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects
of increased post-development stormwater runoff and nonpoint and point source
pollution associated with new development and redevelopment as well as illicit
discharges into municipal stormwater systems.
   (B)   Specific. This chapter seeks to meet its general purpose through the
following specific objectives and means:
      (1)   Requiring that new development and redevelopment maintain the pre-
development hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as
practicable for the applicable design storm to reduce flooding, stream bank
erosion, nonpoint and point source pollution;
      (2)   Establishing minimum post-development stormwater management
standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater
runoff quantity and quality;
      (3)   Encouraging the use of better management and site design practices,
such as the use of vegetated conveyances for stormwater and the preservation of
greenspace, riparian buffers and other conservation areas to the maximum extent
practicable;
      (4)   Establishing provisions for the long-term responsibility for and
maintenance of structural and nonstructural stormwater best management
practices (BMPs) to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are
maintained appropriately, and pose no threat to public safety;
      (5)   Establishing administrative procedures for the submission, review,
approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, for the inspection of
approved projects, and to assure appropriate long-term maintenance;
      (6)   Managing flooding and downstream impacts with an awareness of
impending regional growth.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.05 APPLICABILITY; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   General. Beginning with and subsequent to its effective date, this
chapter shall be applicable to all development and redevelopment, including,
but not limited to, site plan applications, subdivision applications, and
grading applications, unless exempt pursuant to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Development that cumulatively disturbs less than 20,000 square feet
and is not part of a larger common plan of development or sale is exempt from
the provisions of this chapter. This exemption does not relieve any development
from Neuse Buffer Rules or other applicable federal, state or local laws.
      (2)   Redevelopment that cumulatively disturbs less than 20,000 square
feet and is not part of a larger common plan of development or sale is exempt
from the provisions of this chapter. This exemption does not relieve any
development from Ncuse Buffer Rules or other applicable federal, state or local
laws.
      (3)   Development and redevelopment that disturb less than 20,000 square
feet are not exempt if such activities are part of a larger common plan of or
sale, even though multiple, separate or distinct activities take place at
different times on different schedules.
      (4)   Activities that are exempt from permit requirements of Section 404
of the federal Clean Water Act as specified in 40 CFR 232 (primarily, ongoing
farming and forestry activities) are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   No development or redevelopment until compliance and permit.
      (6)   No development or redevelopment shall occur except in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or unless exempted. No development for
which a permit is required pursuant to this chapter shall occur except in
compliance with the provisions, conditions, and limitations of the permit.
   (C)   Map. The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas
designated as the municipal incorporated area and extraterritorial jurisdiction
on the town’s official zoning map, which is adopted simultaneously herewith.
The zoning map shall be kept on file by the town and shall be amended from time
to time to include changes in the land area covered by this chapter. In the
event of a dispute, the applicability of this chapter to a particular area of
land or BMP shall be determined by reference to the North Carolina Statutes,
the North Carolina Administrative Code, and local zoning and jurisdictional
boundary ordinances.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.06 INTERPRETATION.
   Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation,
manual (including the North Carolina Stormwater Best Management Practices
Manual, hereinafter “the Design Manual”), or document, it shall be construed as
a reference to the most recent edition of such that has been finalized and
published with due provision for notice and comment, unless otherwise
specifically stated.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.07 NORTH CAROLINA STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES DESIGN MANUAL.
   (A)   Reference to Design Manual.
      (1)   The Stormwater Administrator or his or her designee shall use the
policy, criteria, and information, including technical specifications and
standards, in the Design Manual as the basis for decisions about stormwater
permits and about the design, implementation and performance of structural and
non-structural stormwater BMPs.
      (2)   The Design Manual includes a list of acceptable stormwater
treatment practices, including specific design criteria for each stormwater
practice. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed, constructed, and
maintained in accordance with these design and sizing criteria will be presumed
to meet the minimum water quality performance standards of the Phase II laws.
   (B)   Relationship of Design Manual to other laws and regulations. If the
specifications or guidelines of the Design Manual are more restrictive or apply
a higher standard than other laws or regulations, that fact shall not prevent
application of the specifications or guidelines in the Design Manual.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.08 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS AND PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Conflict of laws. This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any
other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements
of this chapter are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance,
rule, regulation or other provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter
imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule,
regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive
or imposes higher protective standards shall control.
   (B)   Private agreements. This chapter is not intended to revoke or repeal
any easement, covenant, or other private agreement. However, where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such an easement, covenant, or other private agreement, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern. Nothing in this chapter shall modify
or repeal any private covenant or deed restriction, but such covenant or
restriction shall not legitimize any failure to comply with this chapter. In no
case shall the town be obligated to enforce the provisions of any easements,
covenants, or agreements between private parties.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or
clause of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any
section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this chapter.
   (A)   Final approvals, complete applications.
      (1)   All development and redevelopment projects for which complete and
full applications were submitted and accepted as complete by the town prior to
the effective date of this chapter and which remain valid, unexpired, unrevoked
and not otherwise terminated at the time of development or redevelopment shall
be exempt from complying with all provisions of this chapter dealing with the
control and/or management of post-construction runoff, but shall be required to
comply with all other applicable provisions.
      (2)   A phased development plan shall be deemed approved prior to the
effective date of this chapter if it has been approved by all necessary
govermnent units, it remains valid, unexpired, unrevoked and not otherwise
terminated, and it shows:
         (a)   For the initial or first phase of development: the type and
intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels. This shall include, at a
minimum, the boundaries of the project and a subdivision plan that has been
approved.
         (b)   For any subsequent phase of development: sufficient detail
showing that implementation of the requirements of this ordinance to that phase
of development would require a material change in that phase of the plan.
   (B)   Violations continue. Any violation of provisions existing on the
effective date of this chapter shall continue to be a violation under this
chapter and be subject to penalties and enforcement under this chapter unless
the use, development, construction, or other activity complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILT-UPON AREA (BUA). That portion of a development project that is covered
by impervious or partially impervious surface including, but not limited to,
buildings, pavement and gravel areas such as roads, parking lots, and paths;
and recreation facilities such as tennis courts. BUILT-UPON AREA  does not
include a wooden slatted deck, the water area of a swimming pool, or permeable
pavement that meets the standards outlined in the North Carolina Division of
Water Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual.
   DENSITY. The calculation of the total impervious area of a project divided
by the total project area. Surface water bodies shall be included in
calculations of project density.
   DEPARTMENT. The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   DESIGN MANUAL. The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, Division of Water Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices
Manual approved for use in Phase II jurisdictions by the Department for the
proper implementation of the requirements of the federal Phase II stormwater
program. All references herein to the Design Manual are to the latest published
edition or revision.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land-disturbing activity that increases the amount of
built-upon area or that otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation
into the soil.
   DIVISION. The Division of Water Quality in the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ZONE. The FEMA 100-year floodplain as identified on the
current Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) published by FEMA.
   HIGH-DENSITY PROJECT. A project is a high-density project if it has more
than 24% built-upon area (BUA) based on total project acreage for all
residential and non-residential development. Any project that exceeds the low-
density threshold for built-upon area.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Those surfaces which prevent the infiltration of or impede
the rate of infiltration of stormwater into the soil as compared with the
natural conditions prior to development. Common IMPERVIOUS AREAS include, but
are not limited to, compacted surfaces used for pedestrian and vehicular travel
or parking and other surfaces which prevent or impede the natural infiltration
of stormwater runoff that existed prior to development.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. Any area where multiple separate
and distinct construction or land-disturbing activities will occur under one
plan. A plan is any announcement or piece of documentation (including but not
limited to a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, loan
application, drawing, permit application, zoning request, subdivision
application or computer design) or physical demarcation (including but not
limited to boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings) indicating that
construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
   LOW-DENSITY PROJECT.
      (1)   A project is a LOW-DENSITY PROJECT if it has more than 15% built-
upon area (BUA) and no more than 24% built-upon area (BUA) based on total
project acreage for all residential and non-residential development.
      (2)   A project with an overall density at or below the relevant low-
density threshold, but containing areas with a density greater than the overall
project density, may be considered low density
as long as the project meets or exceeds the post-construction model practices
for LOW-DENSITY PROJECTS and locates the higher density in upland areas and
away from surface waters and drainage ways to the maximum extent practicable.
   NON-STRUCTURAL BMP. A practice that is intended to reduce the impacts of
stormwater runoff by minimizing pollution at the source and that is not a
physical device constructed to control or treat stormwater runoff. Examples of
NON-STRUCTURAL BMPs include reducing impervious areas, making use of existing
natural features and systems, reforestation, and cluster development.
   ONE-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour
rainfall of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once
in 12 months and with a duration of 24 hours.
   OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including but not limited to a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, or long-term or
commercial lessee, or any other person or entity holding proprietary rights in
the property or having legal power of management and control of the property.
OWNER shall include long-term commercial tenants; management entities, such as
those charged with or engaged in the management of properties for profit; and
every person or entity having joint ownership of the property.
   PERENNIAL OR INTERMITTENT SURFACE WATERS. A PERENNIAL OR INTERMITTENT
SURFACE WATER shall be deemed present if the feature is approximately shown on
either the most recent version of the soil survey map prepared by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture
(USDA) or the most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle
topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS). An
exception to this requirement shall be allowed when surface waters are not
present in accordance with the provisions of 15A NCAC 2B .0233(3)(a) or similar
site-specific determination made using Division-approved methodology.
   PERMEABLE PAVEMENT. An alternative to conventional concrete and asphalt
paving materials that allows for infiltration of storm water into a storage
area, with void spaces that provide temporary storage.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any development on previously-developed land, other than a
rebuilding activity that results in no net increase in built-upon area and
provides equal or greater stormwater control than the previous development.
   RIPARIAN BUFFER ZONE. Any area extending 50 feet landward of all perennial
and intermittent surface waters.
   STORMWATER ADMINISTRATOR. The official, including the official’s duly
authorized agent or delegate, charged with the administration and enforcement
of this chapter, which includes but is not  limited to the responsibility to
make decisions about stormwater permits, the design, implementation and
performance of structural and non-structural BMPs; to make determinations and
render interpretations of this chapter; to establish application requirements
and schedules; to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and to designate
appropriate other person(s) who shall carry out the powers and duties of the
Stormwater Administrator.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. Any practice designed to reduce the impacts
of stormwater runoff, including both structural and non-structural BMPs.
   STRUCTURAL BMP. A physical device designed to trap, settle out, or filter
pollutants from stormwater runoff; to alter or reduce stormwater runoff
velocity, amount, timing, or other characteristics; to approximate the pre-
development hydrology on a developed site; or to achieve any combination of
these goals. STRUCTURAL BMP includes physical practices such as constructed
wetlands, vegetative practices, filter strips, grassed swales, and other
methods installed or created on real property.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS. For the purposes of determining whether sufficient
progress has been made on an approved plan, one or more of the following
construction activities toward the completion of a site or subdivision plan
shall occur: obtaining a grading permit and conducting grading activity; or
installation and approval of on-site infrastructure; or obtaining a building
permit for the construction and approval of a building foundation. SUBSTANTIAL
PROGRESS for purposes of determining whether an approved plan is null and void
is not necessarily the same as “substantial expenditures” used for determining
vested rights pursuant to applicable law.
   TEN-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour
rainfall of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once
in ten years and with a duration of 24 hours.
   TWO-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour
rainfall of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once
in two years and with a duration of 24 hours.
   ULTRA LOW-DENSITY PROJECT. A project that has 15% or less built-upon area
(BUA) based on total project acreage for all residential and nonresidential
development. A project with an overall density at or below the relevant ultra
low-density threshold, but containing areas with a density greater than the
overall project density, may be considered ultra low-density as long as the
project meets or exceeds the post-construction model practices for ULTRA LOW-
DENSITY PROJECTS and locates the higher density in upland areas and away from
surface waters and drainageways to the maximum extent practicable.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 151.20 REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING ENTITIES.
   (A)   Stormwater Administrator. A Stormwater Administrator shall be
designated by the Town Board to administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Powers and duties. In addition to the powers and duties that may be
conferred by other provisions of the Code of the Town of Zebulon and other
laws, the Stormwater Administrator shall have the following powers and duties
under this chapter:
      (1)   To review and approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove
applications for approval of plans pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   To make determinations and render interpretations of this chapter.
      (3)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter in accordance with its
enforcement provisions.
      (4)   To maintain records, maps, forms and other official materials as
they relate to the adoption, amendment, enforcement, and administration of this
chapter.
      (5)   To designate appropriate other person(s) who shall carry out the
powers and duties of the Stormwater Administrator.
      (6)   To take any other action necessary to administer the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.21 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Permit required; must apply for permit. A stormwater permit is
required for all development and redevelopment unless exempt pursuant to this
chapter. A permit may only be issued subsequent to a properly submitted and
reviewed permit application, pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Effect of permit.
      (1)   A stormwater permit shall govern the design, installation, and
construction of stormwater management and control practices on the site,
including structural BMPs and elements of site design for stormwater management
other than structural BMPs.
      (2)   The permit is intended to provide a mechanism for the review,
approval, and inspection of the approach to be used for the management and
control of stormwater for the development or redevelopment site consistent with
the requirements of this chapter, whether the approach consists of structural
BMPs or other techniques such as low-impact or low-density design. The permit
does not continue in existence indefinitely after the completion of the
project; rather, compliance after project construction is assured by the
maintenance provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Authority to file applications. All applications required pursuant to
this code shall be submitted to the Stormwater Administrator by the owner or
the owner’s duly authorized agent.
   (D)   Establishment of application requirements, schedule, and fees.
      (1)   Application contents and form. The Stormwater Administrator shall
establish requirements for the content and form of all applications and shall
amend and update those requirements from time to time. At a minimum, the
stormwater permit application shall describe in detail how post-development
stormwater runoff will be controlled and managed, the design of all stormwater
facilities and practices, and how the proposed project will meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Submission schedule. The Stormwater Administrator shall establish a
submission schedule for applications. The schedule shall establish deadlines by
which complete applications must be submitted for the purpose of ensuring that
there is adequate time to review applications, and that the various stages in
the review process are accommodated.
      (3)   Permit review fees. Permit review fees as well as policies
regarding refund of any fees upon withdrawal of an application shall be
established and may be amended and updated from time to time.
      (4)   Administrative manual. For applications required under this code,
the Stormwater Administrator shall compile the requirements and information on
how and where to obtain the Design Manual in an administrative manual, which
shall be made available to the public.
   (E)   Submittal of complete application.
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted to the Stormwater Administrator
pursuant to the application submittal schedule in the form established by the
Stormwater Administrator, along with the appropriate fee established pursuant
to this section.
      (2)   An application shall be considered a complete submittal only when
it contains all elements of a complete application pursuant to this chapter and
the Wake County Erosion and Sedimentation Control regulations, if applicable,
along with the appropriate fee. If the Stormwater Administrator finds that an
application is incomplete, the applicant shall be notified of the deficient
elements and shall be provided with an opportunity to submit a complete
application. However, the submittal of an incomplete application shall not
suffice to meet a deadline contained in the submission schedule established
above.
   (F)   Review. Within 30 working days after a complete application is
submitted, the Stormwater Administrator shall review the application and
determine whether the application complies with the standards of this chapter.
      (1)   Approval. If the Stormwater Administrator finds that the
application complies with the standards of this chapter and the Wake County
Erosion and Sedimentation Control regulations, if applicable, the Stormwater
Administrator shall approve the application. The Stormwater Administrator may
impose conditions of approval as needed to ensure compliance with this chapter.
The conditions shall be included as part of the approval.
      (2)   Fails to comply. If the Stormwater Administrator finds that the
application fails to comply with the standards of this chapter and the Wake
County Erosion and Sedimentation Control regulations, if applicable, the
Stormwater Administrator shall notify the applicant and shall indicate how the
application fails to comply. The applicant shall have an opportunity to submit
a revised application.
      (3)   Revision and subsequent review.
         (a)   A complete revised application shall be reviewed by the
Stormwater Administrator within 15 working days after its re-submittal and
shall be approved, approved with conditions or disapproved.
         (b)   If a revised application is not re-submitted within six months
from the date the applicant was notified, the application shall be considered
withdrawn, and a new submittal for the same or substantially the same project
shall be required along with the appropriate fee for a new submittal.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.22 APPLICATIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Concept plan and consultation meeting.
      (1)   Before a stormwater management permit application is deemed
complete, the Stormwater Administrator or developer may request a consultation
on a concept plan for the post-construction stormwater management system to be
utilized in the proposed development. This consultation meeting should take
place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in
the development process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-
construction stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project,
as well as to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential
approaches to stormwater management designs before formal site design
engineering is commenced. Local watershed plans, the Zebulon and Wendell Open
Space and Greenway Master Plan, the Framework Plan (as described in the Town of
Zebulon Comprehensive Plan), and other relevant resource protection plans
should be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan.
      (2)   To accomplish this goal, the following information should be
included in the concept plan, which should be submitted in advance of the
meeting:
         (a)   Existing conditions/proposed site plans. Existing conditions and
proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and
proposed topography; perennial and intermittent streams; mapping of predominant
soils from soil surveys (if available); boundaries of existing predominant
vegetation; proposed limits of clearing and grading; and location of existing
and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces.
         (b)   Natural resources inventory. A written and graphic inventory of
natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the
commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of
soil conditions, forest cover, geologic features, topography, wetlands, and
native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of
other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as lakes, ponds,
floodplains, stream buffers, flood protection zones, and other setbacks (e.g.,
drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, and the like). Particular
attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide
particular opportunities or constraints for development and stormwater
management.
         (c)   Stormwater management system concept plan. A written and graphic
concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system
including: preliminary selection and location of proposed structural stormwater
controls; low-impact design elements; location of existing and proposed
conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains; flow
paths; location of floodplain/floodway limits; relationship of site to upstream
and downstream properties and drainages; and preliminary location of any
proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
   (B)   Stormwater management permit application.
      (1)   The stormwater management permit application shall detail how post-
development stormwater runoff will be controlled and managed and how the
proposed project will meet the requirements of this chapter, including §§
151.20 through
151.24.
         (a)   Downstream impact analysis. As part of the permit application,
all development and redevelopment shall perform a downstream impact analysis as
specified in §
151.36(A).
         (b)   Plan certification. All such plans shall be prepared by a
qualified registered North Carolina professional engineer, surveyor, soil
scientist or landscape architect, and the engineer, surveyor, soil scientist or
landscape architect shall perform services only in their area(s) of competence,
and shall verify that the design of all stormwater management facilities and
practices meets the submittal requirements for complete applications, that the
designs and plans are sufficient to comply with applicable standards and
policies found in the Design Manual, and that the designs and plans ensure
compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   The submittal shall include all of the information required in the
submittal checklist established by the Stormwater Administrator. Incomplete
submittals shall be treated pursuant to SECTION 3.B.4.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.23 APPROVALS.
   (A)   Effect of approval. Approval authorizes the applicant to go forward
with only the specific plans and activities authorized in the permit. The
approval shall not be construed to exempt the applicant from obtaining other
applicable approvals from local, state, and federal authorities.
   (B)   Time limit/expiration.
      (1)   An approved plan shall become null and void if the applicant fails
to make substantial progress on the site within one year after the date of
approval. The Stormwater Administrator may grant a single, one-year extension
of this time limit, for good cause shown, upon receiving a written request from
the applicant before the expiration of the approved plan.
      (2)   In granting an extension, the Stormwater Administrator may require
compliance with standards adopted since the original application was submitted
unless there has been substantial reliance on the original permit and the
change in standards would infringe the applicant’s vested rights.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.24 APPEALS.
   (A)   Right of appeal. Any aggrieved person affected by any decision, order,
requirement, or determination relating to the interpretation or application of
this chapter made by the Stormwater Administrator, may file an appeal to the
town’s designated Appeal Board within 30 days.
   (B)   Filing of appeal and procedures.
      (1)   Appeals shall be taken within the specified time period by filing a
notice of appeal and specifying the grounds for appeal on forms provided by the
town. The Stormwater Administrator shall transmit to the town’s designated
Appeal Board all documents constituting the record on which the decision
appealed from was taken.
      (2)   The hearing conducted by the town’s designated Appeal Board shall
be conducted in the nature of a quasi-judicial proceeding with all findings of
fact supported by competent, material evidence.
   (C)   Review by Superior Court. Every decision of the town’s designated
Appeal Board shall be subject to Superior Court review by proceedings in the
nature of certiorari. Petition for review by the Superior Court shall be filed
with the Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the latter of the
following:
      (1)   The decision of the town’s designated Appeal Board is filed; or
      (2)   A written copy of the decision is delivered to every aggrieved
party who has filed a written request for such copy with the chair or secretary
of the board that will hear appeals at the time of its hearing of the case.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
STANDARDS
§ 151.35 STANDARDS BASED ON PROJECT DENSITY.
   (A)   Development standards for ultra low-density and low-density projects.
Ultra low-density projects and low-density projects shall comply with each of
the following standards, in addition to the general standards found in §
151.36:
      (1)   Stormwater runoff from the development shall be transported from
the development by vegetated conveyances to the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   All development and redevelopment shall be located outside the
riparian buffer zone and the flood protection zone. These zones shall be in
accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   Except where other applicable buffer standards are more
restrictive, the riparian buffer zone shall extend a minimum of 50 feet
landward of all perennial and intermittent surface waters. The most restrictive
standards shall apply.
         (b)   The riparian buffer zone shall remain undisturbed unless
otherwise permitted by this section.
         (c)   The flood protection zone shall extend throughout the FEMA 100-
year floodplain as identified on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
published by FEMA. The flood protection zone shall remain undisturbed unless
otherwise permitted by this section.
         (d)   No development or redevelopment is permitted within the riparian
buffer zone or the flood protection zone except for stream bank or shoreline
restoration or stabilization, water dependent structures, and public or private
projects such as road crossings and installations, utility crossings and
installations, and greenways, where no practical alternatives exist.
         (e)   Permitted activities within the riparian buffer zone and the
flood protection zone shall minimize impervious coverage, direct runoff away
from surface waters to achieve diffuse flow, and maximize the utilization of
non-structural BMPs.
         (f)   Where the riparian buffer zone and the flood protection zone
both are present adjacent to surface waters, the more restrictive shall apply.
      (3)   The approval of the stormwater permit shall require an enforceable
restriction on property usage that runs with the land, such as a recorded deed
restriction or protective covenants, to ensure that future owners maintain the
site consistent with the approved project plans.
      (4)   All development and redevelopment projects shall provide permanent
on-site BMPs to lower the nitrogen export amounts as part of the stormwater
management plan and accompany the land-disturbing plan submittal. BMPs are to
be in accordance with and as specified in the Design Manual.
      (5)   For low-density projects only, structural and non-structural BMPs
shall be used to ensure there is no net increase in peak flow leaving the site
from the pre-development conditions for the one-year, 24-hour storm. Runoff
volume drawdown time shall be a minimum of 48 hours, but not more than 120
hours.
      (6)   General engineering design criteria for all projects shall be in
accordance with 15A NCAC 2H .1008(c), as explained in the Design Manual.
      (7)   Developers must manage runoff so that after development the site
will not exceed the target curve numbers in the table in division (B) below.
      (8)   Ultra low-density projects and low-density projects may be eligible
for target curve number credits, as described in division (B) below.
   (B)   Maximum curve number after development. Developers must manage runoff
so that after development the site will not exceed the following composite
curve numbers, in accordance with procedures specified in the United States
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resource Conservation Service, Technical
Release 55, Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds.
 
Project Density Maximum Composite Curve Number, by Soil Group
                A   B   C   D
Ultra-low       43  63  76  81
Low             48  66  78  83
High            N/A N/A N/A N/A
 
   (C)   Target curve number credits.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of estabhshing a stormwater credit system is
to provide incentives to implement better site design and locate new
development in a manner that causes less impact to aquatic resources. Certain
development practices reduce the generation of stormwater from the site;
thereby reducing the size and cost of stormwater storage. In addition, these
practices can provide partial removal of many pollutants. The credit system
directly translates into cost savings and better protection of water resources.
      (2)   Disconnected impervious surfaces. Disconnected impervious surfaces,
including permeable pavers, are encouraged. Runoff from these disconnected
surfaces must be spread over pervious areas as sheet flow. As a credit, these
disconnected impervious surfaces will be assigned the lower curve number
specified by procedures of the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural
Resources Conservation Service, Technical Release 55, Urban Hydrology for Small
Watersheds.
      (3)   Reforestation. The planting of trees and shrubs is encouraged as a
means of reducing runoff. As a credit for such practices, reforested areas in
dedicated open space will be assigned the curve number for woods in good
condition per procedures in the United States Department of Agriculture,
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), Technical Release 55, Urban
Hydrology for Small Watersheds. Areas planted with trees or shrubs must meet
the following standards to qualify for the credit.
         (a)   Tree/shrub density and spacing. Planted trees or shrubs must
meet the minimum density and spacing standards of the NRCS, as specified in the
Field Office Technical Guide. Existing trees or shrubs may be used toward
meeting the planting standard.
         (b)   Mulching. An initial application of mulch is required for the
area, designated for reforestation. Mulching must meet applicable standards of
the NRCS, as specified in the Field Office Technical Guide. Existing
groundcover may be used toward meeting the mulching standard.
      (4)   Cluster, conservation and open space subdivisions. Cluster,
conservation and open space subdivisions are encouraged. In applying curve
number calculations to such developments, calculations must take into account
the lots’ proportionate share of right-of-way and permanent open space.
      (5)   Calculations regarding ponds, lakes, and streams. Surface water
bodies may not be assigned a curve number for impervious surfaces. Instead,
such water bodies will be removed from calculations so that developments are
not penalized for their presence. Surface water bodies shall be included in
calculations of project density.
   (D)   Development standards for high-density projects. High-density projects
shall implement stormwater control measures that comply with each of the
following standards, in addition to the general standards found in §
151.36.
      (1)   The measures shall control and treat runoff from the first inch of
rain. Runoff volume drawdown time shall be a minimum of 48 hours, but not more
than 120 hours.
      (2)   All structural stormwater treatment systems used to meet these
requirements shall be designed to have a minimum of 85% average annual removal
for total suspended solids (TSS).
      (3)   All development and redevelopment projects shall provide permanent
on-site BMPs to lower the nitrogen export amounts as part of the stormwater
management plan and accompany the land-disturbing plan submittal. BMPs are to
be in accordance with and as specified in the Design Manual.
      (4)   Structural and non-structural BMPs shall be used to ensure there is
no net increase in peak flow leaving the site from the pre-development
conditions for the one-year, 24-hour storm. Runoff volume drawdown time shall
be a minimum of 48 hours, but not more than 120 hours.
      (5)   General engineering design criteria for all projects shall be in
accordance with 15A NCAC 2H .1008(c), as explained in the Design Manual.
      (6)   All development and redevelopment shall be located outside the
riparian buffer zone and the flood protection zone. These zones shall be in
accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   Except where other applicable buffer standards are more
restrictive, the riparian buffer zone shall extend a minimum of 50 feet
landward of all perennial and intermittent surface waters. The most restrictive
standards shall apply.
         (b)   The riparian buffer zone shall remain undisturbed unless
otherwise permitted by this section.
         (c)   The flood protection zone shall extend throughout the FEMA 100-
year floodplain as identified on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
published by FEMA. The flood protection zone shall remain undisturbed unless
otherwise permitted by this section.
         (d)   No development or redevelopment is permitted within the riparian
buffer zone or the flood protection zone except for stream bank or shoreline
restoration or stabilization, water dependent structures, and public or private
projects such as road crossings and installations, utility crossings and
installations, and greenways, where no practical alternatives exist.
         (e)   Permitted activities within the riparian buffer zone and the
flood protection zone shall minimize impervious coverage, direct runoff away
from surface waters to achieve diffuse flow, and maximize the utilization of
non-structural BMPs.
         (f)   Where the riparian buffer zone and the flood protection zone
both are present adjacent to surface waters, the more restrictive shall apply.
      (7)   The approval of the stormwater permit shall require an enforceable
restriction on property usage that runs with the land, such as recorded deed
restrictions or protective covenants, to ensure that future development and
redevelopment maintains the site consistent with the approved project plans.
Buffer widths and locations shall be clearly delineated on all plans, final
plat, and as-builts.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010; Ord. 2012-05, passed 7-20-2011)
§ 151.36 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Downstream impact analysis.
      (1)   The downstream impact analysis must be performed in accordance with
the “10% rule,” and a copy of the analysis must be provided with the permit
application. The purpose of the downstream impact analysis is to determine if
the project will cause any impacts on flooding or channel degradation
downstream of the project site. The analysis must include the assumptions,
results and supporting calculations to show safe passage of post-development
design flows downstream. This analysis shall be performed at the outlet(s) of
the site, and downstream at each tributary junction to the point(s) in the
conveyance system where the area of the portion of the site draining into the
system is less than or equal to 10% of the total drainage area above that
point.
      (2)   The typical steps in the application of the 10% rule are:
         (a)   Using a topographic map, determine the point downstream where
the proposed site equals 10% of the total drainage area, called the 10% point.
Identify all tributary junctions between the downstream site boundary and the
10% point. All points identified, as well as the outlet of the site, are known
as 10% rule comparison points.
         (b)   Using a hydrologic model with existing land uses, determine the
pre-development peak runoff rate (cfs) for the ten-year design storm event at
each comparison point.
         (c)   Insert the proposed site design and proposed BMPs into the land
uses and determine the post-development peak runoff rate for the ten-year
design storm at each comparison point.
         (d)   If the post-development peak discharge rate is equal to or less
than pre-development conditions at all comparison points, no further analysis
is required.
         (e)   If the ten-year post-development peak discharge rate is greater
than the pre-development peak discharge rate at any comparison point, then one
of the following actions must be taken:
            1.   Revise the site plan for the proposed site to incorporate
better use of natural features, design additional structural control
facilities, reduce impervious cover, or alter timing of peak flows to lower
post-development flows at each comparison point to pre-development levels.
            2.   Obtain a flow easement from downstream property owners through
the 10% point where the post-development peak discharge rate is higher than the
pre-development peak discharge rate.
            3.   Work with the town to determine other acceptable approaches to
reduce the peak discharge rate for the ten-year storm.
      (3)   For further information on the 10% rule, refer to the Stormwater
Manual, available online.
   (B)   Standards for stormwater control measures.
      (1)   Evaluation according to contents of Design Manual. All stormwater
control measures and stormwater treatment practices (or BMPs) required under
this ordinance shall be evaluated by the Stormwater Administrator according to
the policies, criteria, and information, including technical specifications and
standards and the specific design criteria for each stormwater practice, in the
Design Manual. The Stormwater Administrator shall determine whether proposed
BMPs will be adequate to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Determination of adequacy; presumptions and alternatives.
Stormwater treatment practices that are designed, constructed, and maintained
in accordance with the criteria and specifications in the Design Manual will be
presumed to meet the minimum water quality and quantity performance standards
of this chapter. Whenever an applicant proposes to utilize a practice or
practices not designed and constructed in accordance with the criteria and
specifications in the Design Manual, the applicant shall have the burden of
demonstrating that the practice(s) will satisfy the minimum water quality and
quantity performance standards of this chapter. The Stormwater Administrator
may require the applicant to provide the documentation, calculations, and
examples necessary for the Stormwater Administrator to determine whether such
an affirmative showing is made.
      (3)   Separation from seasonal high water table. For BMPs that require a
separation from the seasonal high-water table, the separation shall be provided
by at least 12 inches of naturally occurring soil above the seasonal high-water
table.
      (4)   Changes to stormwater plan based on emerging technologies. Subject
to the standards of this chapter and other applicable law, a developer, in
conjunction with the development’s lot owners, may submit an application to
revise the approved stormwater plan so as to use new technologies or best
management practices not available when the original stormwater plan was
approved. Innovative technologies may be used on a demonstration basis for a
period of one year while simultaneously collecting data on the effectiveness of
the technology according to its design. If at the end of the demonstration
period the technology is not performing according to its intended design
functions as judged by the Stormwater Administrator, the developer must
retrofit the site with a standard technology.
   (C)   Additional stormwater management measures. In some cases, the
Stormwater Administrator may require more stringent stormwater management
measures where it is determined that additional measures are required to
protect water quality and maintain existing and anticipated uses of these
waters or to minimize off-site damage from stormwater runoff in accordance with
the purpose of this chapter as defined in §
151.04.
   (D)   Dedication of BMPS, facilities and improvements. The town may elect to
accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for
maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this chapter
and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or
otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
   (E)   Low impact development project classifications.
      (1)   All development or redevelopment to which this chapter applies may
be submitted for classification as a low impact development (LID) project.
      (2)   Classification as a low impact development project requires that
the development mimic the pre-developed hydrologic conditions defined as woods
in good condition for the two-year, 24-hour storm, within 10%. The pre-
developed conditions shall include: its hydrologic balance, frequency
distribution of high flows; magnitude, frequency, and duration of low flows;
groundwater recharge (or infiltration), and flow length and pattern. The
conditions shall be measured through the comparison between measures of the
pre-developed and developed conditions including: total runoff volume, time of
concentration, curve number, and peak discharge. Mimicry of the pre-developed
hydrologic conditions may be achieved through such techniques as the
minimization of disturbed areas and the use of on-lot distributed retention
storage as described in more detail on Wake County’s Stormwater web site under
low impact development.
      (3)   The following techniques must be used to achieve LID
classification:
         (a)   Natural site design in consultation with the town;
         (b)   Site buildings, roads, and other land disturbance in the least
environmentally-sensitive areas, preserving steep slopes, naturally well-
draining soils, and other hydrologically valuable features undisturbed;
      (4)   In addition, one of the following two techniques must be used to
achieve LID classification:
         (a)   Bio-retention systems;
         (b)   On-site infiltration;
      (5)   In addition, at least two of the following techniques must be used
to achieve LID classification:
         (a)   Retention of 50% of vegetated area, including open space,
landscaping, or forests;
         (b)   Use of permeable pavement for all private driveways, private
roads, sidewalks, and parking areas in accordance with the North Carolina
Stormwater Best Management Practices Design Manual;
         (c)   Installation of one rain cistern per lot or three rain barrels
per lot;
         (d)   Installation of vegetated roofs;
         (e)   Increasing all buffers in the riparian buffer zone or the flood
protection zone, whichever is greater, by 50 feet, in accordance with §
151.35(A)(2) for low-density and ultra low-density projects and §
151.35(D)(6) for high-density projects.
         (f)   Use of reclaimed water for all buildings in accordance with
state and local laws.
         (g)   Use of innovative LID techniques subject to the approval of the
town.
      (6)   For development and redevelopment projects achieving classification
as LID projects, the Stormwater Administrator shall reduce or waive the
stormwater permit fee if stipulated in the fee schedule duly adopted by the
applicable governing board.
      (7)   Upon collaboration with the Planning Board, the Stormwater
Administrator may develop and apply an expedited review schedule for
development or redevelopment projects achieving classification as LID projects.
Such a review schedule will depend upon the continued availability of local
government resources to conduct expedited reviews.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.37 ONSITE WASTEWATER.
   Onsite wastewater disposal systems shall be operated and maintained in
accordance with the Regulations Governing Sewage Treatment and Disposal Systems
in Wake County (Regulations) adopted by the Wake County Board of Human and
Enviromnental Services and enforced by Wake County. Onsite systems shall be
inspected, permitted, repaired and/or professionally operated in accordance
with the Regulations and in a manner to prevent adverse impacts to surface
water and groundwater. The Town of Zebulon and WCES shall collaborate on
identification of areas of high risk for system failures and associated need
for enviromnental surveys, system repairs and possible service by municipal
utilities.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE
§ 151.50 PERFORMANCE SECURITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The town may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a performance
bond, letter of credit from, or cash escrow account with a local bank prior to
issuance of a permit. If improvements are not installed prior to approval of a
record plat, the town shall require the submittal of a performance bond, letter
of credit from, or cash escrow account with a local bank prior to issuance of a
permit. This performance security is required in order to ensure that the
structural BMPs are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved
stormwater management plan, and/or maintained by the owner as required by the
operation and maintenance agreement.
   (A)   Form and amount of installation performance security. The amount of an
installation performance security must equal at least 125% of the estimated
cost of the required improvements, including project management costs that have
not been installed by the time of record plat submittal.
   (B)   Form and amount of maintenance performance security. The amount of a
maintenance performance security must be at least 125% of the total estimated
construction cost of the structural BMPs approved under the permit.
   (C)   Uses of performance security for installation.
      (1)   Forfeiture provisions. The performance security shall contain
forfeiture provisions for failure, after proper notice, to complete work within
the time specified, or to initiate or maintain any actions which may be
required of the applicant or owner in accordance with this chapter, approvals
issued pursuant to this chapter, or an operation and maintenance agreement
established pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Default. Upon default of the owner to construct, maintain, repair
and, if necessary, reconstruct any structural BMP in accordance with the
applicable permit or operation and maintenance agreement, the Stormwater
Administrator shall obtain and use all or any portion of the security to make
necessary improvements based on an engineering estimate. Such expenditure of
funds shall only be made after requesting the owner to comply with the permit
or maintenance agreement. In the event of a default triggering the use of
installation performance security, the town shall not return any of the unused
deposited cash funds or other security, which shall be retained for
maintenance.
      (3)   Costs in excess of performance security. If the town takes action
upon such failure by the applicant or owner or property owners’ association,
the town may collect from the applicant or owner or property owners’
association the difference between the amount of the reasonable cost of such
action and the amount of the security held, in addition to any other penalties
or damages due.
      (4)   Refund. Within 60 days of the final approval, the installation
performance security shall be refunded to the applicant or terminated, except
any amount attributable to the cost (plus 25%) of landscaping installation and
ongoing maintenance associated with the BMPs covered by the security. Any such
landscaping shall be inspected one year after installation with replacement for
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and, if in compliance,
the portion of the financial security attributable to landscaping shall be
released.
   (D)   Uses of performance security for maintenance.
      (1)   Forfeiture provisions. The performance security shall contain
forfeiture provisions for failure, after proper notice, to complete work within
the time specified, or to initiate or maintain any actions which may be
required of the applicant or owner in accordance with this chapter, approvals
issued pursuant to this chapter, or an operation and maintenance agreement
established pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Default. Upon default of the owner to construct, maintain, repair
and, if necessary, reconstruct any structural BMP in accordance with the
applicable permit or operation and maintenance agreement, the Stormwater
Administrator shall obtain and use all or any portion of the security to make
necessary improvements based on an engineering estimate. Such expenditure of
funds shall only be made after requesting the owner to comply with the permit
or maintenance agreement. In the event of a default triggering the use of
installation performance security, the town shall not return any of the unused
deposited cash funds or other security, which shall be retained for
maintenance.
      (3)   Costs in excess of performance security. If the town takes action
upon such failure by the applicant or owner or property owners’ association,
the town may collect from the applicant or owner or property owners’
association the difference between the amount of the reasonable cost of such
action and the amount of the security held, in addition to any other penalties
or damages due.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.51 AS-BUILT PLANS AND FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon completion of a project, the applicant shall certify that the
completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management
plans and designs, and shall submit actual “as built” plans in both digital
file (one copy) and mylar formats (three mylars) for all stormwater management
facilities or practices after final construction is completed.
   (B)   The plans shall show the final design specifications for all
stormwater management facilities and practices and the field location, size,
depth, and planted vegetation of all measures, controls, and devices, as
installed. The designer of the stormwater management measures and plans shall
certify, under seal, that the as-built stormwater measures, controls, and
devices are in compliance with the approved stormwater management plans and
designs and with the requirements of this chapter. A final inspection and
approval by the Stormwater Administrator shall occur before the release of any
performance securities.
   (C)   No certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be issued without
final as-built plans and a final inspection, or performance guarantees, and
approval by the Stormwater Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.52 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Maintenance required. All structural and non-structural BMPs must be
maintained so they will continue to serve their intended functions.
   (B)   Parties responsible for maintenance of structural BMPs. The developer
must maintain structural and non-structural BMPs until accepted by a property
owners’ association or lot owner.
      (1)   All structural BMPs required for residential subdivisions,
including those on individual lots, must be accepted for maintenance by a
property owners’ association. The developer must disclose which party will be
responsible for continued maintenance on the record plat and on the stormwater
management plan.
      (2)   Before improvements are accepted for maintenance by the property
owners’ association or lot owner, the developer or the developer’s engineer or
other representative, as authorized by statute, must certify to the property
owners’ association or lot owner and to the town that improvements are complete
and functioning as designed.
      (3)   If a property owners’ association or similar legal entity is to be
responsible for the maintenance and control of BMPs, it shall be established so
that it has clear legal authority to maintain and exercise control over,
including the power to compel contributions from subdivision property owners to
cover their proportionate shares of the costs associated with the maintenance
of the BMPs. Such association shall be established prior to approval of the
final plat.
      (4)   Documents providing for the establishment of a homeowners’
association or similar legal entity in accord with this chapter shall be
approved by the Stormwater Administrator before any plat is recorded.
   (C)   Maintenance plan.
      (1)   The developer must record, and reference on the record plat, a
maintenance plan that instructs the property owners’ association or lot owner
about the annual maintenance tasks and associated costs for at least a 20-year
period.
      (2)   It will be the responsibility of the property owners’ association
or lot owner to update the maintenance plan at least every ten years in
perpetuity.
   (D)   Maintenance agreement. The developer must record, and reference on the
record plat, a maintenance agreement, or restrictive covenant that sets forth
the property owners’ association’s or lot owner’s continuing responsibilities
for maintenance, including specifying how cost will be apportioned among lot
owners served.
      (1)   The maintenance agreement must provide that the association and its
individual members are jointly and severally liable for maintenance.
      (2)   The maintenance agreement shall grant to the town a right of entry
in the event that the Stormwater Administrator has reason to believe it has
become necessary to inspect, monitor, maintain, repair or reconstruct the
structural and non-structural BMPs; however, in no case shall the right of
entry, of itself, confer an obligation on the town to assume responsibility for
the structural and non-structural BMPs.
   (E)   Maintenance easement. The developer must record easements for access,
maintenance and inspections by any property owners’ association and by the
town.
   (F)   Annual maintenance inspection and report.
      (1)   The person or entity responsible for maintenance of any structural
and non-structural BMPs installed pursuant to this chapter shall submit to the
Stormwater Administrator an annual inspection report from one of the following
persons performing services only in their area of competence: a qualified
registered North Carolina professional engineer, surveyor, landscape architect,
soil scientist, aquatic biologist, or person certified by the North Carolina
Cooperative Extension Service for stormwater treatment practice inspection and
maintenance.
      (2)   Annual inspection reports are due by June 30 of each year. The
first annual report is due by June 30 following one year after approval of the
as-built plan. For structural BMPs located on properties subject to property
owners’ association agreements, the property owners’ association is responsible
for collecting and submitting information on all individual lot structural BMPs
installed pursuant to this chapter on an annual basis. The inspection report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the land owner;
         (b)   The recorded book and page number of the lot of each structural
and non-structural BMPs;
         (c)   A statement that an inspection was made of all structural and
non-structural BMPs;
         (d)   The date the inspection was made;
         (e)   A statement that all inspected structural and non-structural
BMPs are performing properly and are in compliance with the terms and
conditions of the approved maintenance agreement required by this chapter; and
         (f)   The original signature and seal of the engineer, surveyor, or
landscape architect.
      (3)   All inspection reports shall be on forms supplied by the Stormwater
Administrator. An original inspection report shall be provided to the
Stormwater Administrator by the first day of July following the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. Subsequent annual reports shall be due on the first
day of July each year.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.53 INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Inspections and inspection programs by the town may be conducted or
established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to routine
inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other
notice of possible violations; and joint inspections with other agencies
inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are
not limited to, reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges,
surface water, groundwater, and material or water in BMPs; and evaluating the
condition of BMPs.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any property refuses to permit such
inspection, the Stormwater Administrator shall proceed to obtain an
administrative search warrant pursuant to G.S. § 15-27.2 or its successor. No
person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with the Stormwater Administrator
while carrying out his or her official duties, including inspections on private
property. Refusal of owner or occupant of any property to permit such
inspection is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.54 SIGNAGE.
   Where appropriate in the determination of the Stormwater Administrator to
assure compliance with this chapter, structural BMPs shall be posted with a
conspicuous sign stating who is responsible for required maintenance and annual
inspection. The sign shall be maintained so as to remain visible and legible.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.55 RECORDS OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   The owner of each structural BMP shall keep records of inspections,
maintenance, and repairs for at least five years from the date of creation of
the record and shall submit the same upon reasonable request to the Stormwater
Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.56 NUISANCE.
   The owner of each stormwater BMP, whether structural or non-structural BMP,
shall maintain it so as not to create or result in a nuisance condition.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
ILLICIT DISCHARGES
§ 151.65 ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Illicit discharges.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the discharge, emission, disposal,
pouring, or pumping directly or indirectly to any stormwater conveyance, the
waters of the state, or upon the land in manner and amount that the substance
is likely to reach a stormwater conveyance or the waters of the state, any
liquid, solid, gas, or other substance, other than stormwater; provided that
non-stormwater discharges associated with the following activities are allowed
and provided that they do not significantly impact water quality:
         (a)   Water line flushing;
         (b)   Landscape irrigation;
         (c)   Diverted stream flows:
         (d)   Rising ground waters;
         (e)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR
35.2005(20));
         (f)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
         (g)   Discharges from potable water sources;
         (h)   Foundation drains;
         (i)   Air conditioning condensation;
         (j)   Irrigation water;
         (k)   Springs;
         (l)   Water from crawl space pumps;
         (m)   Footing drains;
         (n)   Lawn watering;
         (o)   Individual residential car washing;
         (p)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
         (q)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges;
         (r)   Street wash water; and
         (s)   Other non-stormwater discharges for which a valid NPDES
discharge permit has been approved and issued by the State of North Carolina,
and provided that any such discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer
system shall be authorized by the town.
      (2)   Prohibited substances include but are not limited to: oil, anti-
freeze, chemicals, animal waste, paints, garbage, and litter.
   (B)   Illicit connections.
      (1)   Connections to a stormwater conveyance or stormwater conveyance
system that allow the discharge of non-stormwater, other than the exclusions
described in division (A) above, are unlawful. Prohibited connections include,
but are not limited to: floor drains, waste water from washing machines or
sanitary sewers, wash water from commercial vehicle washing or steam cleaning,
and waste water from septic systems.
      (2)   Where such connections exist in violation of this section and the
connections were made prior to the adoption of this chapter or any other
ordinance prohibiting such connections, the property owner or the person using
the connection shall remove the connection within one year following the
effective date of this chapter. However, the one-year grace period shall not
apply to connections which may result in the discharge of hazardous materials
or other discharges which pose an immediate threat to health and safety, or are
likely to result in immediate injury and harm to real or personal property,
natural resources, wildlife, or habitat.
      (3)   Where it is determined that the connection:
         (a)   May result in the discharge of hazardous materials or may pose
an immediate threat to health and safety, or is likely to result in immediate
injury and harm to real or personal property, natural resources, wildlife, or
habitat; or
         (b)   Was made in violation of any applicable regulation or ordinance,
other than this section;
      (4)   The Stormwater Administrator shall designate the time within which
the connection shall be removed. In setting the time limit for compliance, the
Stormwater Administrator shall take into consideration:
         (a)   The quantity and complexity of the work,
         (b)   The consequences of delay,
         (c)   The potential harm to the environment, to the public health, and
to public and private property, and
         (d)   The cost of remedying the damage.
   (C)   Spills.
      (1)   Spills or leaks of polluting substances released, discharged to, or
having the potential to released or discharged to the stormwater conveyance
system, shall be contained, controlled, collected, and properly disposed. All
affected areas shall be restored to their preexisting condition.
      (2)   Persons in control of the polluting substances immediately prior to
their release or discharge, and persons owning the property, on which the
substances were released or discharged, shall immediately notify the Zebulon
Fire Chief of the release or discharge, as well as making any required
notifications under state and federal law. Notification shall not relieve any
person of any expenses related to the restoration, loss, damage, or any other
liability which may be incurred as a result of the spill or leak, nor shall
such notification relieve any person from other liability which may be imposed
by state or other law.
   (D)   Nuisance. Illicit discharges and illicit connections which exist
within the planning jurisdiction of the Town of Zebulon are hereby found,
deemed, and declared to be dangerous or prejudiced to the public health or
public safety and are found, deemed, and declared to be public nuisances. Such
public nuisances shall be abated in accordance with the procedures set forth in
sections §§
96.02 and
96.99 of the Code of the Town of Zebulon.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Standing water; pollution in streams, see §
96.02
ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS
§ 151.97 GENERAL.
   (A)   Authority to enforce. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced
by the Stormwater Administrator, his or her designee, or any authorized agent
of the town. Whenever this section refers to the Stormwater Administrator, it
includes his or her designee as well as any authorized agent of the town.
   (B)   Violation unlawful. Any failure to comply with an applicable
requirement, prohibition, standard, or limitation imposed by this chapter, or
the terms or conditions of any permit or other development or redevelopment
approval or authorization granted pursuant to this chapter, is unlawful and
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Each day a separate offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation or offense.
   (D)   Responsible persons/entities.
      (1)   Any person who erects, constructs, reconstructs, alters (whether
actively or passively), or fails to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter,
repair or maintain any structure, BMP, practice, or condition in violation of
this chapter shall be subject to the remedies, penalties, and/or enforcement
actions in accordance with this section. Persons subject to the remedies and
penalties set forth herein may include any architect, engineer, builder,
contractor, developer, agency, or any other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, causes, or maintains a condition that results in or
constitutes a violation of this chapter, or fails to take appropriate action,
so that a violation of this chapter results or persists; or an owner, any
tenant or occupant, or any other person, who has control over, or
responsibility for, the use or development of the property on which the
violation occurs.
      (2)   For the purposes of this article, RESPONSIBLE PERSON(S) shall
include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Person maintaining condition resulting in or constituting
violation. An architect, engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency, or
any other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes, or
maintains a condition that constitutes a violation of this chapter, or fails to
take appropriate action, so that a violation of this chapter results or
persists.
         (b)   Responsibility for land or use of land. The owner of the land on
which the violation occurs, any tenant or occupant of the property, any person
who is responsible for stormwater controls or practices pursuant to a private
agreement or public document, or any person, who has control over, or
responsibility for, the use, development or redevelopment of the property.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.98 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation/complaint. Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or
is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such
complaint shall state fully the alleged violation and the basis thereof, and
shall be filed with the Stormwater Administrator, who shall record the
complaint. The complaint shall be investigated promptly b)' the Stormwater
Administrator.
   (B)   Inspection. The Stormwater Administrator shall have the authority,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter and inspect any land,
building, structure, or premises to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Notice of violation and order to correct.
      (1)   When the Stormwater Administrator finds that any building,
structure, or land is in violation of this chapter, the Stormwater
Administrator shall notify, in writing, the property owner or other person
violating this chapter. The notification shall indicate the nature of the
violation, contain the address or other description of the site upon which the
violation is occurring, order the necessary action to abate the violation, and
give a deadline for correcting the violation. If civil penalties are to be
assessed, the notice of violation shall also contain a statement of the civil
penalties to be assessed, the time of their accrual, and the time within which
they must be paid or be subject to collection as a debt.
      (2)   The Stormwater Administrator may deliver the notice of violation
and correction order personally, by the Code Enforcement Officer, by certified
or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by any means authorized for
the service of documents by Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil
Procedure.
      (3)   If a violation is not corrected within a reasonable period of time,
as provided in the notification, the Stormwater Administrator may take
appropriate action under this chapter to correct and abate the violation and to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Extension of time. A person who receives a notice of violation and
correction order, or the owner of the land on which the violation occurs, may
submit to the Stormwater Administrator a written request for an extension of
time for correction of the violation. On determining that the request includes
enough information to show that the violation cannot be corrected within the
specified time limit for reasons beyond the control of the person requesting
the extension, the Stormwater Administrator may extend the time limit as is
reasonably necessary to allow timely correction of the violation, up to, but
not exceeding 14 days. The Stormwater Administrator may grant seven-day
extensions in addition to the foregoing extension if the violation cannot be
corrected within the permitted time due to circumstances beyond the control of
the person violating this chapter. The Stormwater Administrator may grant an
extension only by written notice of extension. The notice of extension shall
state the date prior to which correction must be made, after which the violator
will be subject to the penalties described in the notice of violation and
correction order.
   (E)   Enforcement after time to correct. After the time has expired to
correct a violation, including any extension(s) if authorized by the Stormwater
Administrator, the Stormwater Administrator shall determine if the violation is
corrected. If the violation is not corrected, the Stormwater Administrator may
act to impose one or more of the remedies and penalties authorized by this
chapter.
   (F)   Emergency enforcement. If delay in correcting a violation would
seriously threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose an
immediate danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, then the Stormwater
Administrator may order the immediate cessation of a violation. Any person so
ordered shall cease any violation immediately. The Stormwater Administrator may
seek immediate enforcement, without prior written notice, through any remedy or
penalty authorized by this article.
   (G)   Variances.
      (1)   Any person may petition the town for a variance granting permission
to use the person’s land in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. To
qualify for a variance, the petitioner must show all of the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardships would result from strict application of
this chapter.
         (b)   The hardships result from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as the location, size, or topography of the property.
         (c)   The hardships did not result from actions taken by the
petitioner.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of this chapter; will secure public safety and welfare; and will
preserve substantial justice.
      (2)   The town may impose reasonable and appropriate conditions and
safeguards upon any variance it grants.
      (3)   Statutory exceptions. Notwithstanding division (D)(2)(a) above,
exceptions from the riparian buffer zone and flood protection zone requirements
as well as the deed restrictions and protective covenants requirements shall be
granted in any of the following instances:
         (a)   When there is a lack of practical alternatives for a road
crossing, railroad crossing, bridge, airport facility, or utility crossing as
long as it is located, designed, constructed, and maintained to minimize
disturbance, provide maximum nutrient removal, protect against erosion and
sedimentation, have the least adverse effects on aquatic life and habitat, and
protect water quality to the maximum extent practicable through the use of
BMPs.
         (b)   When there is a lack of practical alternatives for a stormwater
management facility; a stormwater management pond; or a utility, including, but
not limited to, water, sewer, or gas construction and maintenance corridor, as
long as it is located 15 feet landward of all perennial and intermittent
surface waters and as long as it is located, designed, constructed, and
maintained to minimize disturbance, provide maximum nutrient removal, protect
against erosion and sedimentation, have the least adverse effects on aquatic
life and habitat, and protect water quality to the maximum extent practicable
through the use of BMPs.
         (c)   A lack of practical alternatives may be shown by demonstrating
that, considering the potential for a reduction in size, configuration, or
density of the proposed activity and all alternative designs, the basic project
purpose cannot be practically accomplished in a manner which would avoid or
result in less adverse impact to surface waters.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The remedies and penalties provided for violations of this chapter, whether
civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy
provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
   (A)   Remedies.
      (1)   Withholding of a building permit. The Stormwater Administrator or
other authorized agent may refuse to issue a building permit for a building or
other improvements constructed or being constructed on any development site and
served by the structural BMP in question until the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
      (2)   Withholding of certificate of occupancy. The Stormwater
Administrator or other authorized agent may refuse to issue a certificate of
occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being
constructed on the site and served by the stormwater practices in question
until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures
set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations
described therein.
      (3)   Disapproval of subsequent permits and development approvals. As
long as a violation of this chapter continues and remains uncorrected, the
Stormwater Administrator or other authorized agent may withhold, and the Board
of Commissioners may disapprove, any request for permit or development approval
or authorization provided for by this chapter or the zoning and subdivision
ordinances for the land on which the violation occurs.
      (4)   Injunction, abatements, and the like. The Stormwater Administrator,
with the written authorization of the Town Manager, may institute an action in
a court of competent jurisdiction for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and
order of abatement to correct a violation of this chapter. Any person violating
this chapter shall be subject to the full range of equitable remedies provided
in the North Carolina General Statutes or at common law.
      (5)   Correction as public health nuisance, costs as lien, and the like.
If the violation is deemed dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
public safety and is within the geographic limits prescribed by G.S. § 160A-
193, the Stormwater Administrator, with the written authorization of the Town
Manager, may cause the violation to be corrected and the costs to be assessed
as a lien against the property.
      (6)   Stop work order. The Stormwater Administrator may issue a stop work
order to the person(s) violating this chapter. The stop work order shall remain
in effect until the person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the
notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations
described therein. The stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable
the person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or
violations.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Violation of this chapter may subject the violator to
a civil penalty to be recovered in a civil action in the nature of a debt if
the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days after notice of the
violation is issued by the Stormwater Administrator. Civil penalties may be
assessed up to the full amount of penalty to which the Town of Zebulon is
subject for violations of its Phase II stormwater permit, or if no Phase II
stormwater permit exists for the jurisdiction, civil penalties may be assessed
up to the full amount allowed by law.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Violation of this chapter may be enforced as a
misdemeanor subject to the maximum fine permissible under North Carolina law. A
civil penalty may be assessed from the date of the violation.
   (D)   Continuing violation. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2010-27, passed 1-6-2010)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
 
 CHAPTER 153: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Finding
   
153.02   Purpose and scope
   
153.03   Definitions
Fitness for Habitation
   
153.10   Conditions rendering a dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
153.11   Standards and requirements for fitness
   
153.12   Rooming houses
Responsibility of Occupant and Owner
   
153.20   Responsibility of occupant
   
153.21   Responsibility of owner
Enforcement
   
153.25   Duties of Building Inspector
   
153.26   Powers of Building Inspector
   
153.27   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
153.28   Procedure for enforcement
   
153.29   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
153.30   In rem action by Building Inspector; placarding
   
153.31   Costs a lien on premises
   
153.32   Alternative remedies
   
153.33   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
153.34   Conflict with other provisions
   
153.98   Violations
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 FINDING.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that there
exist in the Town of Zebulon and its extraterritorial area dwellings which are
unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation; defects increasing the hazards
of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of ventilation, light and
sanitary facilities; and due to other conditions rendering those dwellings
unsafe or unsanitary and dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety and
morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town and
its extraterritorial area.
(1985 Code, § 153.01)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-441 was repealed by Session Laws 2019 111, s. 2.3
§ 153.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town and its extraterritorial area as authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 12,
it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for
the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation,
as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160D-1205.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the Town of Zebulon and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction as shown on the official extraterritorial
boundary map recorded with the Register of Deeds of Wake County. This chapter
establishes minimum requirements for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings and structures used for human habitation, and does not replace or
modify requirements otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities except as provided in
this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change or modification in construction or
occupancy.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Inspector.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind. The term BUILDING shall be
construed as if followed by the words “or part thereof.”
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all the minimum standards
established by §
153.11 of this chapter at a cost not in excess of 60% of its value, as
determined by findings of the Building Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all the minimum standards
established by §
153.11 of this chapter at a cost not in excess of 60% of its value, as
determined by findings of the Building Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, or structure, or any part thereof, used and occupied
for human habitation or intended to be so used, and including any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms, or any part thereof, located
within a dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are
used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, whether
or not the unit is occupied or vacant.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the Building Inspector.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together, who are related by blood,
marriage, or adoption and having common housekeeping facilities.
   FLOOR AREA. The total area of all habitable rooms in a building or
structure.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests in such numbers as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. A Building Inspector of the town, or other person charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter, or his or her duly-
authorized representative.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied,
as the home or residence of more than two families, living independently of
each other and doing their own cooking in the building; and including flats and
apartments.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple, and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling, or any who are in possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and public or private water
supply system, within or adjacent to any building, structure or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension or alteration of storm water, liquid waste or sewerage and water
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon; or any part thereof.
   PUBLIC AREA. An unoccupied open space adjoining a building and on the same
property, that is permanently maintained accessible to the Fire Department and
free of all encumbrances that might interfere with its use by the Fire
Department.
   REQUIRED. Required by some provision of this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY. Buildings in which families or households live, or in
which sleeping accommodations are provided. These buildings include, among
others, the following: dwellings, multiple dwellings and lodging houses, and
all dormitories.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling, containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not members of the family of the owner or operator; or any
part thereof.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes; or any part thereof.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage;
including ashes, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather,
tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass,
crockery and dust.
   STAIRWAY. One or more flights of stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one story to another in a building or structure.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above; except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner. The term STRUCTURE shall be construed as if
followed by the words “or part thereof.”
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the owner
or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Defined by §
153.10 herein.
   VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanical means to or from any space.
   YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building, extending
along the entire length of a street, or rear, or interior lot line.
(1985 Code, § 153.03)
FITNESS FOR HABITATION
§ 153.10 CONDITIONS RENDERING A DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any of the following conditions exist
in the building:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the structure unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting members which show 33% or more of damage or
deterioration, or nonsupporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
show 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the
structure unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions, or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or the public;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or the public; and/or
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating, or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter, which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall use the standards and requirements in §
153.11 as a guide in making his or her determination.
(1985 Code, § 153.10)
§ 153.11 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FITNESS.
   The following standards and requirements for residential buildings shall be
pertinent in determining fitness for human habitation:
   (A)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   Foundation.
         (a)   Beneath the building, there shall be firm ground, reasonably dry
ground, no soggy ground, no water standing, no watercourse running under
building.
         (b)   There shall be sound footings, adequate bearing.
         (c)   There shall be sound piers with no loose mortar or building
materials.
         (d)   There shall be no piers in which plumb line from top center
falls outside middle one-third of pier base.
         (e)   There shall be no isolated solid masonry piers exceeding in
height ten times least dimension of pier.
         (f)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers or other improper piers.
      (2)   Floors.
         (a)   There shall be no seriously rotted, termite or fire-damaged
joists and sills.
         (b)   There shall be no broken, overloaded, or sagging sills.
         (c)   Sills shall be reasonably level.
         (d)   Sills shall be properly and sufficiently supported.
         (e)   There shall be no broken joists.
         (f)   Maximum spans for floor joists, provided they show signs of
being weak or overloaded, are as follows:
 
15 feet 8 inches  For 2 inches x 10 inches at 16 inches o.c.
13 feet 11 inches For 2 inches x 10 inches at 24 inches o.c.
12 feet 3 inches  For 2 inches x 8 inches at 16 inches o.c.
10 feet 3 inches  For 2 inches x 8 inches at 24 inches o.c.
9 feet 4 inches   For 2 inches x 6 inches at 16 inches o.c.
7 feet 9 inches   For 2 inches x 6 inches at 24 inches o.c.
 
         (g)   No two-inch by four-inch floor joists shall be allowed.
         (h)   Any floor joists which show signs of weakness or disrepair shall
be properly replaced with lumber comparable to at least the same nominal
dimension as the original joist, or specifications in division (A)(2)(f) or
(g), whichever is stricter.
         (i)   Flooring shall be weather-tight without holes or excessive
cracks which permit air to penetrate rooms.
         (j)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth, substantially rodent-proof
and not rotten, fire-damaged, or worn through.
         (k)   There shall be no loose flooring or floor covering.
         (l)   Floor shall be reasonably level.
         (m)   When any new flooring is to be installed, there shall be a
minimum of five-eighths-inch flooring over the flooring joists.
         (n)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors
on the ground.
      (3)   Walls, exterior.
         (a)   There shall be no wall in which plumb line from top center of
studs falls outside base plate at any point along wall.
         (b)   There shall be no studs spaced excessively; minimum:
            1.   24 inches o.c. two by six studs where solid sheathing or
siding is not used.
            2.   16 inches o.c. two by four studs where solid sheathing or
siding is not used.
            3.   24 inches o.c. where solid sheathing or siding is used.
         (c)   No studs shall be seriously rotted, termite-damaged or fire-
damaged.
         (d)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
         (e)   All siding shall be weather-tight, with no holes or excessive
cracks or rotted boards.
         (f)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (4)   Walls, interior.
         (a)   Interior finish shall be free of holes and excessive cracks
which permit air to penetrate rooms.
         (b)   There shall be no walls in which plumb line from top center of
studs falls outside base plate at any point along wall.
         (c)   There shall be no loose plaster, loose boards or other loose
wall materials susceptible to falling.
         (d)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or similar highly
combustible wall finish.
         (e)   There shall be no seriously rotten, fire-damaged, termite-
damaged, broken or cracked studs or other structural members.
         (f)   Every wall, floor or partition shall be substantially rodent-
proof.
      (5)   Ceilings.
         (a)   There shall be no seriously rotted, broken, cracked, sagging or
fire-damaged joists, or improperly supported ends.
         (b)   Maximum spacing for ceiling joists, if they show signs of
sagging or being weak, are as follows:
            1.   16 inches o.c. where plaster or three-eighths inches gypsum
wallboard is used.
            2.   24 inches o.c. where solid wood, three-eighths inches plywood,
or one-half inches gypsum wallboard is used.
         (c)   Maximum span for ceiling joists, if they show signs of being
weak or overloaded (only attic space above), are as follows.
 
16 feet 2 inches For 2 inches x 8 inches at 16 inches o.c.
13 feet 2 inches For 2 inches x 8 inches at 24 inches o.c.
12 feet 3 inches For 2 inches x 6 inches at 16 inches o.c.
10 feet          For 2 inches x 6 inches at 24 inches o.c.
8 feet 7 inches  For 2 inches x 4 inches at 16 inches o.c.
7 feet           For 2 inches x 4 inches at 24 inches o.c.
Roof trusses should be used according to manufacturer’s instructions.
 
         (d)   Any ceiling joists which show signs of disrepair shall be
properly replaced with lumber comparable to at least the same nominal dimension
as the original joist or as specified in division (A)(5)(c), whichever is
stricter.
         (e)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks which permit air to
penetrate the room.
         (f)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, sheet rock or other
ceiling finish susceptible to falling.
         (g)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or other highly
combustible finishes.
         (h)   Every interior ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof.
      (6)   Roof.
         (a)   There shall be no seriously rotted, broken or fire-damaged
rafters or improperly-supported ends.
         (b)   All eaves shall be in proper structural condition.
         (c)   Rafters shall be properly braced and tied four feet on center
minimum when required.
         (d)   There shall be no loose, or seriously rotted, fire-damaged or
sagging sheathing.
         (e)   There shall be no loose roof covering, nor holes nor leaks.
         (f)   There shall be a minimum of class c roof covering.
         (g)   There shall be proper flashing at walls and chimneys.
         (h)   There shall be no roof with more than two coverings. For this
purpose, wood shingles shall not be considered a covering.
      (7)   Porches, exterior stairs and steps.
         (a)   Floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to requirements set forth
above, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if providing drainage
of floors, and floors need not be weather-tight.
         (b)   Posts, railings and guards shall not be seriously rotted or
termite-damaged, and shall be sufficiently anchored.
         (c)   Every porch, terrace or entrance platform located at least 30
inches above adjacent finish grade shall be equipped with railings or guards
not less than 30 inches high. Handrails continuous on all open sides of stairs
exceeding 54 inches in height leading to a platform, porch or terrace, shall be
installed at least 30 inches high.
         (d)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of
its intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
         (e)   Every stair tread shall be uniform in height, sound and securely
fastened in position, and strong enough to bear a concentrated load of at least
400 pounds without danger of breaking through.
         (f)   Stairs shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks large enough
to constitute accident hazards.
      (8)   Interior stairs and steps.
         (a)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks
large enough to constitute accident hazards.
         (b)   Interior steps and stairs more than five risers high shall have
rails not less than 30 inches measured vertically from the nose of the treads
to the top of the rail.
         (c)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good
condition.
         (d)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of
its intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
         (e)   There shall be no rotting, sagging or deteriorating supports.
         (f)   Every stair riser shall be reasonably uniform and shall not
exceed eight and one-quarter inches in height; treads shall be at least one and
one-eighth-inch thickness and shall be securely fastened in position. Every
wood stair riser in excess of 36 inches in width shall have an additional
stringer, each stringer to be spaced not more than 30 inches apart. The minimum
depth of treads shall be ten and one-quarter inches, including the nosing.
      (9)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, and basement or
cellar door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and
rodent-proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
      (10)   Windows to be glazed. Window panes or an approved substitute shall
be maintained without cracks or holes which allow passage of air.
      (11)   Window sash. Window sash shall be properly fitted and weather-
tight within the window frame.
      (12)   Hardware. Every exterior door shall be provided with proper
hardware and maintained in good condition.
      (13)   Door frames. Every exterior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame so as to substantially exclude rain and wind from entering the
dwelling building.
      (14)   Screens.
         (a)   Every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space shall have screens and a self-closing device; every window or other
device with opening to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for
ventilation, shall likewise have screens, and be tight-fitting, free of holes
and not nailed to window frame or sash.
         (b)   Dwellings containing central heating furnaces and adequate
cooling equipment for mechanically ventilating the building year around are not
required to have screens on door or window openings.
      (15)   Accessory structures. Garages, storage buildings and other
accessory structures shall be maintained and kept in good repair and sound
structural condition.
   (B)   Plumbing requirements. All new plumbing to be installed shall be
installed in accordance with Volume II of the North Carolina State Building
Code, titled “Plumbing.”
      (1)   Any repair or replacement of existing plumbing shall be done in
accordance with this plumbing code when, in the opinion of the plumbing
inspector, it is reasonably practicable or otherwise vital in the interest of
health and sanitation.
      (2)   All plumbing shall be connected to the water and sanitary sewer
system where available.
      (3)   All fixtures shall be operable.
      (4)   There shall be no broken water closet bowls.
      (5)   Water closet shall not be loose or leaking.
      (6)   There shall be no leaks in shower stall floor.
      (7)   No hopper or vogel bowl toilets shall be allowed.
      (8)   There shall be adequate separate facilities for furnishing running
hot and cold water to each tub or shower, lavatory and kitchen sink.
      (9)   There shall be running water installed inside each residential
building for each dwelling unit.
      (10)   There shall be installed water closet, tub or shower, lavatory and
sink for each dwelling unit. Kitchen sink shall be at least 18 inches by 15
inches by six inches.
      (11)   There shall be separate toilet facilities for each dwelling unit.
      (12)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
insulation, or proper installation in protected space.
      (13)   Soil and water lines shall be supported, and no lines shall be
broken or leaking.
      (14)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be so constructed and maintained as to be reasonably impervious
to water, and so as to permit the floor to be readily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (15)   At least three-inch minimum size main vent shall be properly
installed for each building.
   (C)   Heating requirements.
      (1)   Every building and every dwelling unit shall be weather-proof and
capable of being adequately heated. The heating equipment in every dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be maintained in a safe workable condition.
      (2)   Heating system, if provided, shall be properly installed and
maintained in safe working condition, and capable of safely and adequately
heating simultaneously all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in an occupied building to a temperature of at least 70°F at a
distance of three feet above floor level with an outside temperature of 20°F.
      (3)   All gas and oil heating equipment installed on the premises shall
be listed by Underwriter’s Laboratories or American Gas Association, and
installed in accordance with the provisions of Volume III of the North Carolina
State Building Code, titled “Heating.”
      (4)   Liquid fuel stored on the premises shall be stored in accordance
with the provisions of §
94.18.
      (5)   There shall be no loose brick in chimneys.
      (6)   There shall be no holes in flues.
      (7)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
      (8)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tightly.
      (9)   Thimbles shall not be broken.
      (10)   Thimbles shall be high enough for stovepipe to rise one-quarter
inch per foot minimum.
      (11)   Hearth, where required, shall be at least 20 inches deep and six
inches beyond each side of fireplace opening. Fireplace depth shall be 16
inches.
      (12)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches of the top
and seven inches of either side of the fireplace opening. Combustible material
above and projecting more than one and one-half inches from the face of the
fireplace opening shall have a minimum clearance of 12 inches above the
opening.
      (13)   Fireplaces shall be used only for supplemental heat and not for
basic heating.
      (14)   If fireplace opening is closed, it shall be a masonry closure.
      (15)   Stove shall be within six feet of thimble serving it.
      (16)   No combustible material shall be within 12 inches of stovepipe.
      (17)   No stovepipe shall be through combustible walls.
      (18)   Prefabricated fireplace flues should be installed in accordance
with manufacturer’s specifications.
      (19)   In multiple dwellings with central heat, the furnace room shall be
enclosed with material having at least one-hour protection rating.
      (20)   As to multiple dwellings, liquid fuel shall be stored in outside
tanks and pipe to heating units.
   (D)   Electrical requirements.
      (1)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be hanging
loose.
      (2)   All switches, fixtures and receptacles shall be safely operable.
      (3)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner so
as determined by the town electric code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or
wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light fixtures
are not provided in any habitable room, then that room shall contain at least
three floor- or wall-type electric convenience receptacles.
      (4)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (5)   There shall be at least one light in the bathroom.
      (6)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of ten feet in
length. However, extension cords of proper size and insulation may be used on a
temporary basis in the operation of electric-powered tools. Stationary, fixed
or heating appliances shall not receive electrical current through a separate
extension cord. No extension cords shall be spliced.
      (7)   No circuits shall be overloaded. Size of wire shall be appropriate
to handle electric load safely.
      (8)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (9)   All new permanent wiring to be installed shall be in accordance
with the National Electrical Code. Any repair or replacement of existing wiring
shall be done in accordance with that electrical code when, in the opinion of
the electrical inspector, it is reasonably practicable or otherwise vital to
health and safety in order to eliminate a dangerous and hazardous condition.
      (10)   All wiring shall be maintained in a safe condition.
      (11)   Where the determination is made, upon examination of the existing
electrical service supply, that the electrical service supply is obsolete or is
a hazard to the occupants, or would otherwise constitute a hazard to life and
property, the following shall be used for determining the adequacy of the
service supply and main disconnect switch.
 
Total Number of Lighting Electrical Capacity of Main Service Supply and Main
Outlets Only                        Disconnect Switch
0-24                                60 amp service at 230 volts
25-50                               100 amp service at 230 volts
 
      (12)   The minimum capacity of the service supply and the main disconnect
switch shall be sufficient to adequately carry the total load required in
accordance with the electrical code of the town.
   (E)   Light and ventilation requirements.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area of the
room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or any room,
and light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of the room, the
total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor
area of the room.
      (2)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to
at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type window
size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
      (3)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms, except that no window
or skylight shall be required in adequately ventilated bathrooms and water
closet rooms equipped with approved ventilation systems.
      (4)   Attic shall be properly ventilated.
         (a)   The net opening shall be at least 1/150 of the attic floor
space. Obstructions caused by screens and louvers must be subtracted to obtain
the net area.
         (b)   The net opening may be cut to 1/250% if 50% or more of the
ventilation is in the upper portion of the attic.
   (F)   Space, use and location requirements.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant thereof; at least 100 feet of
additional habitable floor area for each of the next three occupants; and at
least 75 square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional
occupant.
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant.
      (3)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room, foyer,
hall or corridor shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet; and the
floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than seven
feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total
floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible
occupancy thereof.
      (4)   No basement or cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or
dwelling unit unless meeting all specifications for habitable rooms.
      (5)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be enclosed.
      (6)   Access shall be provided to required toilet rooms without going
outside building.
      (7)   Access shall be provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit
without passing through a public space. Rooming houses are exempt from this
requirement.
      (8)   Doors shall be provided at all doorways leading to bedrooms, toilet
rooms and bathrooms, and all rooms adjoining a public space.
      (9)   All exterior doors and doors to individual dwelling units shall
have locks.
      (10)   All outside doors shall be weather-tight.
      (11)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate
means of egress as required by the State Building Code.
(1985 Code, § 153.11) Penalty, see §
153.99
Cross-reference:
   Adoption by town of National Electrical Code, see §
150.07
   Adoption by town of State Plumbing Code, see §
150.08
   Adoption by town of State Residential Building Code, see §
150.06
§ 153.12 ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   General compliance required. No person shall operate a rooming house,
or shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming
house, except in compliance with the provisions of every section of this
chapter.
   (B)   Water closet, lavatory and bath facilities.
      (1)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house
wherever these facilities are to be shared.
      (2)   All like facilities shall be located on the floor they serve within
the dwelling so as to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway
to all persons sharing the facilities.
   (C)   Water heater required. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot water at all times.
   (D)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
space. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person shall
contain at least 50 square feet for each occupant thereof.
   (E)   Exit requirement. Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by
all applicable building codes.
   (F)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming
house. He or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of
the entire premises where the entire structure or building is leased or
occupied by the operator.
(1985 Code, § 153.12) Penalty, see §
153.99
RESPONSIBILITY OF OCCUPANT AND OWNER
§ 153.20 RESPONSIBILITY OF OCCUPANT.
   Every occupant, whether or not the owner, of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall:
   (A)   Keep that dwelling unit or part of a dwelling which he or she occupies
and controls in a clean and sanitary condition;
   (B)   Keep all required plumbing and other fixtures in a clean and sanitary
condition, and exercise reasonable care in the use and operation thereof;
   (C)   Be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other
pests whenever the dwelling unit or apartment is the only one in the
residential building infested, and the owner has provided a reasonably insect-
proof and adequately rodent-proof building;
   (D)   Dispose of all garbage and other refuse in an approved garbage
receptacle. When approved garbage receptacles are not provided by the landlord,
it shall be the responsibility of the occupant to provide adequate approved
garbage receptacles;
   (E)   Not place on the premises any material which causes a fire hazard or
otherwise endangers the health or safety of any occupants of the building; not
place in storage or on the premises any furniture, auto parts, junk, equipment,
or material which harbors insects, rodents or other pests;
   (F)   Maintain fuel storage tanks and their supports which are furnished by
the occupant in a safe and nonhazardous condition; not alter, change or cause
damage to existing fuel storage tanks or their supports so as to make the same
unsafe or dangerous;
   (G)   Not place within any structure for use therein any oil- or gas-fired
portable or non-vented cook stove or heater;
   (H)   Not place on the premises for the use thereon any heating or cooking
unit which constitutes a serious fire hazard; and
   (I)   Not willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or
equipment, or any part of the structure of the dwelling or dwelling unit; if
not the owner.
(1985 Code, § 153.20) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   Every owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean
and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises
thereof.
(1985 Code, § 153.21) Penalty, see §
153.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction, in
order to determine which dwellings and dwelling units are unfit for human
habitation, and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter
with respect to dwellings and dwelling units;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed; and
   (D)   To perform other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(1985 Code, § 153.25)
§ 153.26 POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary
or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to determine which dwellings therein are
unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with law and in
such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 153.26)
§ 153.27 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the Inspector free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, and its premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of inspection,
examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or
dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making the repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 153.27) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.28 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Building Inspector by a public authority or by at least five
residents of the town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction charging that any
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears
to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit
for human habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner
of and parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating
the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall
have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons
signing a petition relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After notice and hearing, the Inspector shall
state in writing his or her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit
is unfit for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or
dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter and
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to
exceed 90 days. This order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations and
improvements have been made.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter, or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner
of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector
to vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the town Board of Commissioners at its
next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the
superior court for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the
Inspector, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling
or dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the
Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted a provided in the above division (C)(1), the
Inspector shall submit to the Board of Commissioners an ordinance ordering the
Inspector to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered,
improved or vacated and closed, and removed or demolished, as provided in the
original order of the Inspector, and pending the removal or demolition, to
placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443 and §
153.30 of this chapter.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made.
         (a)   When appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to
allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed.
         (b)   When any appeal is from a decision of the Inspector requiring
the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of
suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property; in which case the requirement shall not be
suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due cause
shown upon not less than one-day’s written notice to the Inspector, by the
Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446
(f) and division (E) of this section.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person, or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify,
the decision or order appealed from, and may make a decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter. To that end it shall have all the
powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Inspector.
The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case where
there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application of
this chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of this
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to superior court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(1985 Code, § 153.28)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals, see §
153.33
Editor’s note:
   G.S. §§ 160A-443, 160A-446(f) and 160A-446(g) were repealed by Session Laws
2019 111, s. 2.3
§ 153.29 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Building Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make
an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the
person may be made by publishing the same once each week for two successive
weeks in a newspaper circulating in the town. Where service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(1985 Code, § 153.29)
§ 153.30 IN REM ACTION BY BUILDING INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Building Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, and upon adoption by the Board of Commissioners of an ordinance
authorizing and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443
(5) and §
153.28(C) of this chapter, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling or
dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed,
and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Board of
Commissioners; and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the
dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with the following words: “This building is
unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. §
160A-443(5).
(1985 Code, § 153.30)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. 160A-443(5) was repealed by Session Laws 2019 111, s. 2.3
§ 153.31 COSTS, A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1125, the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition,
caused to be made or done by the Building Inspector pursuant to § 153.30 of
this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. § 160D-1125.
(1985 Code, § 153.31) (Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 153.32 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
153.98 of this chapter. The enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws.
(1985 Code, § 153.32)
§ 153.33 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Building
Inspector pursuant to §
153.28(D) of this chapter shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meetings, and to adopt necessary rules of procedure and
any other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge
of its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
153.28(D), and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
(1985 Code, § 153.33)
§ 153.34 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall prevail.
(1985 Code, § 153.34)
§ 153.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close, and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Building Inspector
duly made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the
order. Each day that any failure, neglect or refusal to comply with an order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
153.28 of this chapter, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement, or its
vacation and closing. Each day that such occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1985 Code, § 153.98) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(1985 Code, § 153.99)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1985 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference         Code Section
12-3                   10.05
                       70.99;
                       72.99;
                       91.05;
                       91.06;
                       91.99;
                       95.55;
                       97.99;
14-4                   98.10;
                       100.99;
                       110.40;
                       130.01;
                       130.06;
                       130.08;
                       131.99;
                       153.32;
                       153.99
14-4(a)                10.99
14-132(b)              130.02
14-159.13              130.04
14-225                 Ch. 98
14-277.2(a)            Ch. 98
14-288.1(6)            93.02
14-288.4               131.01
15-27.2                151.53
17C                    Ch. 34
18B                    130.01
18B-301                130.01
18B-1001               113.01
19A-20 et seq.         97.04
19A-45                 91.04
19A-46                 91.04
19A-47                 91.04
20                     70.02
20-4.01                131.08
20-114.l               70.07
20-141                 71.02
20-145                 70.05
20-156                 94.03
20-158                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
20-158(b)              Ch. 74, Sch. I
20-167                 94.18
                       70.09;
20-169                 71.05;
                       98.02
20-171                 70.03
20-219.11              90.10
44A, Art. 1            90.12
58-80-1 et seq.        33.03
62                     Charter, §
                       7.1
65                     Ch. 92
69-25.1–69-25.16     33.04
90-86 et seq.          131.08
95-173 et seq.         94.08;
                       100.01
97-1 et seq.           34.04
                       Charter, §
105                    5.6;
                       110.14
105-109(d)             110.41
105-349                30.08
105-350                30.08
136-41.1               Ch. 99
136-44.14              72.06
136-66.1 et seq.       Ch. 99
136, Art. 9            Charter, §
                       7.1
136-141 et seq.        90.12
136-143                90.15
143, Art. 8            36.01
143-129(a)             36.01
143-129(g)             36.01
143-143.8 et seq.      94.07
143-214.7              151.02
159-9                  30.10
                       Charter, §
159-24                 5.5;
                       30.11
159-25                 30.11
                       Charter, §
159-29                 5.5;
                       30.11
160A-59–160A-64      Ch. 30
160A-66                30.05
160A-67                30.05
160A-68                30.22
160A-69                30.05
160A-70                30.05;
                       30.06
                       30.05;
160A-71                30.22;
                       30.23
160A-72                30.22;
                       30.23
160A-76(b)             94.07
160A-101               Charter, §
                       3.3
160A-101(3)            30.20
160A-101(8)            30.21
160A-102               Charter, §
                       3.3
160A-147               30.12
                       Charter, §
160A-148               5.2;
                       30.12
160A-171               30.09
160A-173               30.01
160A-174               130.06
                       Ch. 10;
                       10.99;
                       72.99;
                       91.05;
                       91.06;
                       94.07;
160A-175               97.99;
                       98.10;
                       100.99;
                       110.40;
                       130.01;
                       130.06;
                       131.99
160A-175(g)            100.99
160A-178               111.05
160A-179               131.04
160A-183               94.15
160A-184               Ch. 97
160A-189               131.02
                       90.01;
                       95.51;
160A-193               95.54;
                       Ch. 96;
                       151.99
160A-194               Ch. 110;
                       112.01
160A-200.1             95.56
160A-207               110.41
160A, Art. 12          36.02
160A-266(c)            36.02
160A-281               30.07;
                       34.01
160A-284               30.07
160A-285               30.07
160A-291               Ch. 33;
                       94.01
160A-292               30.04
160A-293               Ch. 33
160A-296               Ch. 71
160A-300               Ch. 70
160A-301               Ch. 72
160A-302               Ch. 72
                       Ch. 90;
160A-303               90.01;
                       90.03
160A-303.2             90.01;
                       90.03
160A-311               Ch. 95;
                       95.04
160A-341 et seq.       Ch. 92
160A-350               31.60
160A-360 (Repealed)    94.07
160A-435 (Repealed)    94.04
160A-441 (Repealed)    153.01
160A-443 (Repealed)    153.28
160A-443(5) (Repealed) 153.30
160A-446(f) (Repealed) 153.28
160A-446(g) (Repealed) 153.28
160D, Art. 2           Charter, §
                       8.3
160D-174               151.02
160D-185               151.02
160D-201               Charter, §
                       8.3
                       Charter, §§
160D-601               6.29,
                       6.30,
                       6.31
160D, Art. 8           Charter, §
                       8.1
160D-1102              30.02,
                       31.20
160D-1125              153.31
160D-1129              95.69
160D, Art. 12          153.02
160D-1201 et seq.      95.69
160D-1205              153.02
163-279                32.01
163-291 et seq.        32.01
163-292                Charter, §
                       4.2
166A-19.31             93.03
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code 2008 Code
1985 Code    2008 Code
10.01        10.01
10.02        10.02
10.03        10.03
10.04        10.04
10.05        10.05
10.06        10.06
10.07        10.07
10.08        10.08
10.09        10.09
10.10        10.10
10.11        10.11
10.12        10.12
10.13        10.13
10.14        10.14
10.15        10.15
10.16        10.16
30.01        30.01
30.02        30.02
30.03        30.03
30.04        30.04
30.05        30.05
30.06        30.06
30.07        30.07
30.08        30.08
30.09        30.09
30.10        30.10
30.11        30.11
30.12        30.12
30.20        30.20
30.21        30.21
30.22        30.22
30.23        30.23
31.01        31.01
31.10        31.10
31.20        31.20
31.30        31.30
31.31        31.31
31.32        31.32
31.33        31.33
31.34        31.34
31.59        31.59
31.60        31.60
31.61        31.61
31.62        31.62
31.63        31.63
31.64        31.64
32.01        32.01
33.01        33.01
33.02        33.02
33.03        33.03
33.04        33.04
33.05        33.05
34.01        34.01
34.02        34.02
34.03        34.03
36.01        36.01
36.02        36.02
70.01        70.01
70.02        70.02
70.03        70.03
70.04        70.04
70.05        70.05
70.06        70.06
70.07        70.07
70.08        70.08
70.10        70.09
70.15        70.15
70.16        70.16
70.99        70.99
71.01        71.01
71.02        71.02
71.03        71.03
71.04        71.04
71.05        71.05
71.06        71.06
71.07        71.07
71.08        71.08
71.09        71.09
71.10        71.10
72.01        72.01
72.02        72.02
72.03        72.03
74, Sch. I   74, Sch. I
74, Sch. II  74, Sch. II
74, Sch. III 74, Sch. III
74, Sch. IV  74, Sch. IV
74, Sch. V   74, Sch. V
74, Sch. VI  74, Sch. VI
75, Sch. I   75, Sch. I
75, Sch. II  75, Sch. II
75, Sch. III 75, Sch. III
90.01        90.01
90.02        90.02
90.03        90.03
90.04        90.04
90.05        90.05
90.06        90.06
90.07        90.07
90.08        90.08
90.09        90.09
90.10        90.10
90.11        90.11
90.12        90.12
90.13        90.13
90.14        90.14
90.15        90.15
90.16        90.16
91.01        91.01
91.02        91.02
91.03        91.03
91.04        91.04
91.05        91.05
91.06        91.06
91.07        91.07
91.08        91.08
91.09        91.09
91.10        91.10
91.11        91.11
91.12        91.12
91.13        91.13
91.14        91.14
91.15        91.15
91.30        91.30
91.31        91.31
91.32        91.32
91.33        91.33
91.34        91.34
91.35        91.35
91.36        91.36
91.37        91.37
91.38        91.38
91.39        91.39
91.50        91.50
91.51        91.51
91.52        91.52
91.53        91.53
91.54        91.54
91.55        91.55
91.56        91.56
91.57        91.57
91.99        91.99
92.01        92.01
92.02        92.02
92.03        92.03
92.04        92.04
92.05        92.05
92.06        92.06
92.07        92.07
92.08        92.08
92.09        92.09
92.10        92.10
92.11        92.11
92.12        92.12
92.13        92.13
92.14        92.14
92.15        92.15
92.16        92.16
92.17        92.17
92.18        92.18
92.19        92.19
92.20        92.20
92.21        92.21
92.99        92.99
93.01        93.01
93.02        93.02
93.03        93.03
93.04        93.04
93.05        93.05
93.06        93.06
93.99        93.99
94.01        94.01
94.02        94.02
94.03        94.03
94.04        94.04
94.05        94.05
94.06        94.06
94.07        94.07
94.08        94.08
94.15        94.15
94.16        94.16
94.17        94.16
94.18        94.18
94.19        94.18
94.20        94.20
94.99        94.99
97.01        97.01
97.02        97.02
97.03        97.03
97.04        97.04
97.05        97.05
98.01        98.01
98.02        98.02
98.03        98.03
98.10        98.10
99.01        99.01
99.02        99.02
99.03        99.03
99.04        99.04
99.05        99.05
99.10        99.15
99.11        99.16
99.12        99.17
100.01       100.01
100.02       100.02
100.99       100.99
110.01       110.01
110.02       110.02
110.03       110.03
110.04       110.04
110.05       110.05
110.06       110.07
110.07       110.08
110.08       110.09
110.09       110.10
110.10       110.11
110.11       110.12
110.12       110.13
110.13       110.14
110.15       110.41
110.99       110.99
112.01       112.01
112.02       112.02
112.03       112.03
112.04       112.04
112.05       112.05
112.06       112.06
112.07       112.07
112.08       112.08
112.09       112.09
112.10       112.10
112.99       112.99
130.01       130.01
130.02       130.02
130.03       130.03
130.04       130.03
130.06       130.06
131.01       131.01
131.02       131.02
131.05       131.04
131.06       131.05
131.07       131.06
150.01       150.01
150.02       150.02
150.03       150.03
150.04       150.04
150.05       150.05
150.06       150.06
150.07       150.07
150.08       150.08
150.09       150.09
150.10       150.10
150.20       150.20
150.21       150.21
150.22       150.22
150.23       150.23
150.99       150.99
153.01       153.01
153.02       153.02
153.03       153.03
153.10       153.10
153.11       153.11
153.12       153.12
153.20       153.20
153.21       153.21
153.25       153.25
153.26       153.26
153.27       153.27
153.28       153.28
153.29       153.29
153.30       153.30
153.31       153.31
153.32       153.32
153.33       153.33
153.34       153.34
153.98       153.98
153.99       153.99
             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1976-11  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1977-13  - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1979-7   - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1980-6   - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1981-14  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1981-15  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1981-17  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1981-18  - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1982-6   - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1983-2   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1985-5   - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1983-10  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1983-11  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1983-12  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1983-13  - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1983-14  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1983-15  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1984-6   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1985-17  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1987-6   - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Sch. IV
1987-11  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1987-15  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1987-16  - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                     Sch. III
1987-17  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. V
1987-23  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1999-01  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1999-14  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1999-16  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
2000-16  - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-39  - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
–      2-7-77      Charter, §
                     3.3
2004-36  3-1-2004    33.02
                     Charter, §§
                     1,
                     1.1,
                     2.1,
                     2.2;
                     3.1–
                     3.3,
                     4.1,
                     4.2,
                     5.1–
2004-45  4-4-2004    5.10,
                     6.1–
                     6.27,
                     7.1,
                     8.1–
                     8.3,
                     9.1–
                     9.5,
                     10.1,
                     11.1–
                     9
2004-48  6-7-2004    131.07
2004-49  6-7-2004    34.04
2004-50  6-7-2004    98.20
2004-51  6-7-2004    130.07
2004-52  6-7-2004    131.08
                     95.01–
                     95.06;
                     95.10–
                     95.12;
2005-15  11-1-2004   95.20–
                     95.24;
                     95.35–
                     95.38;
                     95.50–
                     95.55
2005-16  11-1-2004   90.03
                     96.01–
2005-17  11-1-2004   96.06;
                     96.99
2005-18  11-1-2004   99.03;
                     99.04
2006-09  10-3-2005   Ch. 75, Sch. II
2006-42  4-3-2006    31.80–
                     31.84
2007-16  9-13-2006   50.01
2007-55  5-24-2007   90.03
2008-24  11-5-2007   99.06
2008-39  2-4-2008    130.08
                     110.01–
                     110.15;
                     110.25–
2008-61  6-11-2008   110.29;
                     110.40–
                     110.45;
                     110.99
2009-23  2-2-2009    95.01
2009-24  1-5-2009    72.03
2009-42  5-4-2009    152.016
2009-50  6-1-2009    152.016
2010-03  7-6-2009    10.98
                     72.01;
2010-04  7-6-2009    72.04–
                     72.08
2010-05  7-6-2009    130.01
                     151.01–
                     151.10,
                     151.20–
                     151.24,
                     151.35–
2010-27  1-6-2010    151.37,
                     151.50–
                     151.56,
                     151.65;
                     151.97–
                     151.99
2010-36  3-1-2010    31.31;
                     31.63
2012-05  7-20-2011   151.35
2012-10  9-6-2011    10.98
                     130.01;
2013-01  7-18-2012   130.05;
                     130.06;
                     130.08
2013-02  7-18-2012   98.01
2013-04  7-18-2012   110.40
                     97.02;
2013-05  7-18-2012   97.03;
                     97.99
                     131.01;
                     131.02;
2013-06  7-19-2012   131.04–
                     131.08;
                     131.99
2013-07  7-18-2012   91.05;
                     91.06
2013-08  7-18-2012   10.98
                     72.01–
2013-10  7-18-2012   72.03;
                     72.99
2013-50  6-3-2013    95.01
2014-07  8-6-2013    111.01–
                     111.05
2015-05  8-4-2014    94.07
                     Charter; §§
2015-09  9-2-2014    6.28–
                     6.32
2015-29  6-1-2015    31.31;
                     31.32
2017-13  2-6-2017    93.03
2017-15  3-6-2017    36.03
                     92.10,
                     92.14,
2019-14  - -         92.15,
                     92.20,
                     92.21,
                     92.99
2020-40  2-3-2020    113.01
                     95.50,
2020-42  3-2-2020    95.51,
                     95.56
2020-50  6-1-2020    30.23
2021-14  8-18-2020   98.30
2021-36  9-1-2020    31.31
                     95.60 -
2021-60  4-12-2021   95.69,
                     95.99
                     95.01,
2021-65  5-3-2021    151.02,
                     153.02,
                     153.31
2023-16  12-5-2022   101.01  -
                     101.07
                    
 
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Effective Date 1.1.2020
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. Pamphlet #6
Introduction
1: General Provisions
1.1.   Title
1.2.   Effective Date
1.3.   Authority
1.3.1.   General Assembly
1.3.2.   North Carolina General Statutes
1.3.3.   Town Charter
1.3.4.   Other Relevant Laws
1.4.   Purpose and Intent
1.4.1.   Keep Town Residents and Visitors Safe
1.4.2.   Foster a Convenient, Compatible Arrangement of Land Uses
1.4.3.   Protect the Natural Environment
1.4.4.   Ensure Properly Functioning Infrastructure
1.4.5.   Establish a Unique Sense of Place
1.4.6.   Promote a Strong and Diverse Economy
1.4.7.   Provide Adequate and Desirable Housing
1.5.   Applicability
1.5.1.   Territorial Jurisdiction
1.5.2.   Development Subject to this Ordinance
1.5.3.   Activities Exempted from this Ordinance
1.5.4.   Application to Governmental Units
1.5.5.   Emergency Exemptions
1.5.6.   Minimum Requirements
1.5.7.   Utility Allocation Policy
1.6.   Adopted Policy Guidance
1.6.1.   Policy Guidance Identified
1.6.2.   Conformance
1.7.   Procedures Manual
1.8.   Relationship to Other Laws and Agreements
1.8.1.   Review of Private Agreements
1.8.2.   Existing Agreements or Vested Rights
1.9.   Conflict
1.9.1.   Conflicts with State or Federal Law
1.9.2.   Conflicts with Other Town Codes or Laws
1.9.3.   Conflicts between the Standards in this Ordinance
1.9.4.   Conflicts with Private Agreements
1.9.5.   Determination of the More Restrictive Standard
1.10.   Transitional Provisions
1.10.1.   Prior Violations Continue
1.10.2.   Existing Nonconformities
1.10.3.   Pending Applications
1.10.4.   Approved Applications
1.10.5.   Existing Development
1.11.   Zoning District Translation
1.12.   Severability
2: Procedures
2.1.   How to Use this Article
2.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
2.1.2.   Article Contents
2.1.3.   Steps in the Development Review Process
2.1.4.   For Additional Information
2.2.   Application Review Procedures
2.2.1.   Administrative Adjustment
2.2.2.   Annexation
2.2.3.   Appeal
2.2.4.   Building Permit
2.2.5.   Certificate of Occupancy
2.2.6.   Conditional Rezoning
2.2.7.   Construction Drawing
2.2.8.   Development Agreement
2.2.9.   Exempt Subdivision
2.2.10.   Expedited Subdivision
2.2.11.   Final Plat
2.2.12.   Floodplain Development Permit
2.2.13.   Interpretation
2.2.14.   Non-Residential Site Plan
2.2.15.   Planned Development
2.2.16.   Reasonable Accommodation
2.2.17.   Residential Preliminary Plan
2.2.18.   Sign Permit
2.2.19.   Special Use Permit
2.2.20.   Temporary Use Permit
2.2.21.   UDO Text Amendment
2.2.22.   Variance
2.2.23.   Vested Rights Determination
2.2.24.   Zoning Compliance Permit
2.2.25.   Zoning Map Amendment
2.3.   Application Processing
2.3.1.   Purpose and Intent
2.3.2.   Pre-application Conference
2.3.3.   Application Filing
2.3.4.   Neighborhood Meeting
2.3.5.   Staff Review and Action
2.3.6.   Public Notice
2.3.7.   Public Hearings and Meetings
2.3.8.   Conditions of Approval
2.3.9.   Notification of Decision
2.3.10.   Effect
2.3.11.   Continuance, Postponement, and Withdrawal
2.3.12.   Limitation on Subsequent Similar Applications
3: Districts
3.1.   Introductory Provisions
3.1.1.   Compliance with District Standards Required
3.1.2.   Types of Zoning Districts
3.1.3.   Zoning Districts Established
3.1.4.   Organization of These Zoning District Standards
3.1.5.   Generally Applicable Dimensional Standards
3.2.   Official Zoning Map
3.2.1.   Generally
3.2.2.   Incorporated by Reference
3.2.3.   Interpretation of Official Zoning Map Boundaries
3.2.4.   Changes to Official Zoning Map
3.3.   General Residential Zoning Districts
3.3.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
3.3.2.   Residential Watershed (R1) District
3.3.3.   Residential Suburban (R2) District
3.3.4.   Residential Neighborhood (R4) District
3.3.5.   Residential Urban (R6) District
3.3.6.   Residential Multi-Family (RMF) District
3.4.   General Commercial Zoning Districts
3.4.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
3.4.2.   Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District
3.4.3.   General Commercial (GC) District
3.4.4.   Heavy Commercial (HC) District
3.4.5.   Light Industrial (LI) District
3.4.6.   Campus Industrial (CI) District
3.4.7.   Heavy Industrial (HI) District
3.5.   General Mixed Use Zoning Districts
3.5.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
3.5.2.   Office Institutional (OI) District
3.5.3.   Downtown Core (DTC) District
3.5.4.   Downtown Periphery (DTP) District
3.5.5.   Planned Development (PD) District
3.6.   Conditional Districts
3.6.1.   Purpose and Intent
3.6.2.   Creation
3.6.3.   Districts Established
3.6.4.   Conditions, Generally
3.6.5.   Limitations on Conditions
3.6.6.   Development Concept Required
3.6.7.   Compliance with Subdivision Requirements
3.6.8.   Relationship to Overlay District Standards
3.7.   Special Use Districts
3.7.1.   Purpose and Intent
3.7.2.   Distinguished From General or Conditional Zoning Districts
3.7.3.   Districts Established
3.7.4.   Revision or Amendment
3.7.5.   Additional Standards for the CA-SUD District
3.8.   Overlay Zoning Districts
3.8.1.   Generally
3.8.2.   Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District
3.8.3.   Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District
3.8.4.   Local Historic Overlay (LHO) District
3.8.5.   Manufactured Home Overlay (MHO) District
4: Uses
4.1.   Chapter Organization
4.1.1.   Uses Distinguished
4.1.2.   Chapter Organization
4.2.   Principal Uses
4.2.1.   Use Classification System
4.2.2.   Principal Use Table Structure
4.2.3.   Principal Use Table
4.3.   Use-Specific Standards
4.3.1.   Standards Applied to All Uses
4.3.2.   Standards Applied to any Special Use
4.3.3.   Residential Use Types
4.3.4.   Institutional Uses
4.3.5.   Commercial Uses
4.3.6.   Industrial Uses
4.3.7.   Agricultural Uses
4.4.   Accessory Uses
4.4.1.   Purpose
4.4.2.   Organization of These Standards
4.4.3.   Procedure for Establishment
4.4.4.   General Standards for Accessory Uses and Structures
4.4.5.   Table as Guide
4.4.6.   Listed Accessory Uses
4.4.7.   Standards for Specific Accessory Uses
4.5.   Temporary Uses
4.5.1.   Purpose
4.5.2.   Applicability
4.5.3.   General Standards for Temporary Uses and Structures
4.5.4.   Standards for Specific Temporary Uses
4.6.   Unlisted Uses
4.6.1.   Procedure
4.7.   Prohibited Uses
4.7.1.   Prohibited Everywhere
4.7.2.   Prohibited by Overlay District Standards
5: Development Standards
5.1.   Access and Circulation
5.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.1.2.   Applicability
5.1.3.   Exemptions
5.1.4.   Access to Lots
5.1.5.   Compliance with Requirements for Streets
5.1.6.   Driveways
5.1.7.   Sight Distance Triangles
5.1.8.   Parking Lot Connections
5.1.9.   On-Site Pedestrian Walkways
5.1.10.   Compliance with Requirements for Sidewalks
5.1.11.   Compliance with Requirements for Greenways
5.2.   Design Guidelines
5.2.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.2.2.   Applicability
5.2.3.   Statement of Consent
5.2.4.   Design Features
5.3.   Design Standards
5.3.1.   Commercial Design Standards
5.3.2.   Mixed-Use Design Standards
5.3.3.   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
5.4.   Exterior Lighting
5.4.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.4.2.   Applicability
5.4.3.   Exemptions
5.4.4.   Prohibited Lighting
5.4.5.   Lighting Plan
5.4.6.   Exterior Lighting Standards
5.4.7.   Maximum Illumination Levels
5.4.8.   Nonconforming Lighting
5.5.   Fences and Walls
5.5.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.5.2.   Applicability
5.5.3.   Exemptions
5.5.4.   Locational Standards
5.5.5.   Maximum Height
5.5.6.   Wind Loading
5.5.7.   Duration
5.5.8.   Permitted Materials
5.5.9.   Restricted Fence Materials
5.5.10.   Electric Fences
5.5.11.   Prohibited Fence Materials
5.5.12.   Materials for Temporary Fences
5.5.13.   Wall Material Standards
5.5.14.   Finished Side
5.5.15.   Maintenance
5.6.   Landscaping
5.6.1.   Section Organization
5.6.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.6.3.   Applicability
5.6.4.   Exemptions
5.6.5.   Landscape Plan Required
5.6.6.   Plant Material Specifications
5.6.7.   Landscaping Placement
5.6.8.   Features Allowed Within Required Landscaping Areas
5.6.9.   Parking Lot Landscaping
5.6.10.   Perimeter Buffers
5.6.11.   Foundation Plantings
5.6.12.   Streetscape Buffers
5.6.13.   Street Trees
5.6.14.   Planting Flexibility
5.6.15.   Time of Installation
5.6.16.   Required Maintenance
5.6.17.   Site Inspection
5.6.18.   Replacement of Required Vegetation
5.6.19.   Stormwater Control Measure (SCM) Landscaping
5.7.   Open Space
5.7.1.   How to Use These Standards
5.7.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.7.3.   Applicability
5.7.4.   Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Requirements
5.7.5.   Open Space Set-Aside Configuration
5.7.6.   Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides
5.7.7.   Maintenance of Open Space Set-Asides
5.8.   Parking and Loading
5.8.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.8.2.   Applicability
5.8.3.   Exemptions
5.8.4.   Off-Street Parking Requirements
5.8.5.   Parking Lot Configuration
5.8.6.   Accessible Parking Spaces
5.8.7.   Guest Parking Spaces
5.8.8.   Compact Parking Spaces
5.8.9.   Stacking Spaces
5.8.10.   Bicycle Parking
5.8.11.   Parking Alternatives
5.8.12.   Off-Street Loading
5.9.   Reforestation
5.9.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.9.2.   Applicability
5.9.3.   Exemptions
5.9.4.   Requirements
5.9.5.   Tree Protection Devices
5.9.6.   Credit Towards Other Ordinance Requirements
5.9.7.   Maintenance
5.10.   Screening
5.10.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.10.2.   Using These Standards
5.10.3.   Applicability
5.10.4.   Exemptions
5.10.5.   General Requirements
5.10.6.   Views to Be Screened
5.11.   Signage
5.11.1.   Section Organization
5.11.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.11.3.   Applicability
5.11.4.   Exclusions
5.11.5.   Prohibited Sign Types
5.11.6.   General Standards Applicable to All Signs
5.11.7.   Removal of Dilapidated or Obsolete Signs
5.11.8.   Nonconforming Signage
5.11.9.   Sign Standards by Sign Type
5.12.   Sustainability Incentives
5.12.1.   How to Use These Incentives
5.12.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.12.3.   Applicability
5.12.4.   Type of Incentives
5.12.5.   Procedure
5.12.6.   Menu of Sustainable Development Practices
5.12.7.   Failure to Install or Maintain Sustainable Development Practices
6: Subdivisions
6.1.   Introductory Provisions
6.1.1.   How to Use these Standards
6.1.2.   Purpose and Intent
6.1.3.   Applicability
6.1.4.   Exemptions
6.1.5.   Compliance with Other Standards
6.1.6.   Approval of Subdivision Plats Required
6.1.7.   Recordation of Subdivision Plats Required
6.1.8.   Issuance of Permits Following Plat Approval
6.1.9.   Subdividing in Violation
6.2.   Conservation Subdivision
6.2.1.   Purpose and Intent
6.2.2.   Applicability
6.2.3.   Procedure
6.2.4.   Conservation Subdivision Standards
6.2.5.   Delineation of Conservation and Development Areas
6.2.6.   Evaluation Criteria for Conservation Subdivision Layout
6.3.   Fee-in-Lieu
6.3.1.   Purpose
6.3.2.   Procedure
6.3.3.   Amount
6.3.4.   Review Standards for Fee-in-Lieu
6.4.   Greenways
6.4.1.   Required Greenway Dedication and Construction
6.4.2.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Greenways
6.4.3.   Greenway Configuration
6.4.4.   Density Credits
6.4.5.   Open Space Set-Aside Credits
6.5.   Owners' Associations
6.5.1.   Purpose
6.5.2.   Applicability
6.5.3.   Creation Required
6.5.4.   Responsibilities of Association
6.5.5.   Procedure for Association Establishment
6.5.6.   Documentation Requirements
6.5.7.   Membership Requirements
6.5.8.   Transfer of Maintenance Responsibility
6.5.9.   Failure to Maintain is a Violation
6.6.   Performance Guarantees
6.6.1.   Purpose and Intent
6.6.2.   Eligible Facilities and Features
6.6.3.   Ineligible Facilities
6.6.4.   Maximum Term of Guarantee
6.6.5.   Form of Guarantee
6.6.6.   Administration of Guarantees
6.6.7.   Amount of Guarantee
6.6.8.   Release or Reduction of Guarantee
6.6.9.   Improper Release of Performance Guarantees
6.6.10.   Forfeiture of Guarantee
6.6.11.   As-Built Plans Required
6.7.   Reservation of Public Lands
6.7.1.   Reservation of School Sites
6.7.2.   Dedication of Land for Public Parks
6.8.   Sidewalks
6.8.1.   Location
6.8.2.   Configuration
6.8.3.   Credit for Trails
6.8.4.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Sidewalks
6.9.   Soil Erosion & Sedimentation
6.9.1.   Natural Drainage System Utilized to the Extent Feasible
6.9.2.   Development Must Drain Properly
6.9.3.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan Required
6.9.4.   Exemptions
6.9.5.   Timing of Review
6.10.   Streets
6.10.1.   Compliance with Guiding Documents
6.10.2.   Street Classification
6.10.3.   Street Rights-Of-Way
6.10.4.   Dedication and Construction
6.10.5.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Road Improvements
6.10.6.   Private Streets
6.10.7.   Street Design
6.10.8.   Street Drainage
6.10.9.   Street Signs
6.10.10.   Traffic Control Signs and Signals
6.10.11.   Street Lights
6.10.12.   Vehicular Gates
6.10.13.   Bridges
6.10.14.   Dams
6.11.   Stormwater
6.11.1.   Generally
6.11.2.   Higher Adjacent Lands
6.11.3.   Lower Adjacent Lands
6.12.   Subdivision Standards
6.12.1.   Subdivision Name
6.12.2.   Reasonable Relationship
6.12.3.   Lot Configuration
6.12.4.   Access to Lots
6.12.5.   Monuments
6.12.6.   Easements
6.12.7.   Cluster Mailboxes
6.12.8.   Building Numbers
6.13.   Transportation Impact Analysis
6.13.1.   Introduction
6.13.2.   Purpose
6.13.3.   Applicability
6.13.4.   Pre-Application Conference
6.13.5.   Memorandum of Understanding
6.13.6.   Period of Validity
6.13.7.   Traffic Impact Analysis Report Elements
6.13.8.   Safety and Operational Analysis
6.13.9.   Deferral of Obligation
6.13.10.   Waiver
6.13.11.   Format and Submittal of Report
6.14.   Utilities and Infrastructure
6.14.1.   Utility Ownership and Easement Rights
6.14.2.   Lots Served by Governmentally Owned Water or Sewer Lines
6.14.3.   Sewage Disposal Facilities Required   
6.14.4.   Water Supply System Required
6.14.5.   Electric Power
6.14.6.   Telephone Service
6.14.7.   Underground Utilities
6.14.8.   Utilities to be Consistent with Internal and External Development
6.14.9.   As-Built Drawings Required
6.14.10.   Fire Hydrants
7: Nonconformities
7.1.   General Applicability
7.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
7.1.2.   Determination of Nonconformity Status
7.1.3.   Continuation, Minor Repairs, and Maintenance Allowed
7.1.4.   Change of Tenancy or Ownership
7.2.   Nonconforming Lots of Record
7.2.1.   Applicability
7.2.2.   Nonconforming Lot Width or Area
7.2.3.   Nonconformity Affects Required Setbacks
7.2.4.   Expansion or Enlargement
7.2.5.   Governmental Acquisition of Land
7.3.   Nonconforming Signs
7.3.1.   General
7.3.2.   Prohibited Actions
7.3.3.   Maintenance of Nonconforming Signage Allowed
7.3.4.   Replacement of Nonconforming Signage
7.3.5.   Discontinuance of Business Activity
7.4.   Nonconforming Sites
7.4.1.   Applicability
7.4.2.   Changes of Use
7.4.3.   Determination of Cost and Assessed Value
7.4.4.   Expansion of Buildings or Structures
7.4.5.   Physically Constrained Properties - Comply to Maximum Extent
Practicable
7.5.   Nonconforming Structures
7.5.1.   Applicability
7.5.2.   Continuation and Replacement
7.5.3.   Alteration and Expansion
7.5.4.   Cessation
7.6.   Nonconforming Uses
7.6.1.   Declared Incompatible
7.6.2.   Increasing Elevation
7.6.3.   Extension or Expansion
7.6.4.   Renovation
7.6.5.   Conversion to Another Nonconforming Use
7.6.6.   Restoration Following Casualty Damage
7.6.7.   Cessation
8: Enforcement
8.1.   Purpose
8.2.   Compliance Required
8.3.   Statute of Limitations
8.4.   Violations
8.4.1.   Development without Authorization
8.4.2.   Development Inconsistent with Authorization
8.4.3.   Violation by Act or Omission
8.4.4.   Use in Violation
8.4.5.   Subdivide in Violation
8.4.6.   Violation of Environmental Regulations
8.5.   Responsible Persons
8.5.1.   General
8.5.2.   Failure by Town Does Not Relieve Individual
8.6.   Enforcement Responsibilities
8.6.1.   Investigations
8.6.2.   Inspections
8.6.3.   Supporting Documentation
8.7.   Enforcement Procedure
8.7.1.   Written Notice of Violation
8.7.2.   Delivery of Written Notice
8.7.3.   Remedy upon Notice
8.7.4.   Failure to Comply With Order
8.7.5.   Each Day a Separate Violation
8.8.   Remedies
8.8.1.   Civil Penalties
8.8.2.   Denial of Permit or Certificate
8.8.3.   Conditional Permit or Temporary Certificate
8.8.4.   Stop Work Orders
8.8.5.   Revocation of Permits
8.8.6.   Criminal Penalties
8.8.7.   Injunctive Relief
8.8.8.   Order of Abatement
8.8.9.   Equitable Remedy
8.8.10.   State and Common Law Remedies
8.8.11.   Previous Enforcement
8.8.12.   Remedies; Cumulative and Continuous
8.9.   Assessment of Civil Penalties
8.9.1.   Responsible Parties
8.9.2.   Notice
8.9.3.   Continuing Violation
8.9.4.   Demand for Payment
8.9.5.   Nonpayment
8.9.6.   Penalties
8.9.7.   Civil Penalties in the R1 District
8.10.   Enforcement Provisions for Violations in the FHO District
8.10.1.   Violations to be Corrected
8.10.2.   Inspections of Work in Progress
8.10.3.   Stop-Work Orders
8.10.4.   Revocation of Permits
8.10.5.   Periodic Inspections
8.10.6.   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action
8.10.7.   Order to Take Corrective Action
8.10.8.   Appeal
8.10.9.   Failure to Comply with Order
9: Measurement and Definitions
9.1.   Rules of Language Construction
9.1.1.   Meanings and Intent
9.1.2.   Headings, Illustrations, and Text
9.1.3.   Lists And Examples
9.1.4.   Computation of Time
9.1.5.   Time-Related Language
9.1.6.   References to This Ordinance
9.1.7.   References to Other Regulations or Publications
9.1.8.   References to North Carolina General Statutes
9.1.9.   Delegation of Authority
9.1.10.   Joint Authority
9.1.11.   Technical and Non-Technical Terms
9.1.12.   Public Officials and Agencies
9.1.13.   Mandatory and Discretionary Terms
9.1.14.   Conjunctions
9.1.15.   Tenses, Plurals, and Gender of Words
9.1.16.   Oath
9.1.17.   Term Not Defined
9.2.   Table of Abbreviations
9.3.   Rules of Measurement
9.3.1.   Purpose
9.3.2.   Measurements, Generally
9.3.3.   Lot Dimensions
9.3.4.   Setbacks
9.3.5.   Setback Encroachments
9.3.6.   Residential Density
9.3.7.   Gross Floor Area (GFA)
9.3.8.   Height
9.3.9.   Lot Coverage
9.3.10.   Slope and Elevation
9.3.11.   Parking Space Computation
9.3.12.   Landscaping
9.3.13.   Signage Measurement
9.3.14.   Exterior Lighting
9.3.15.   Fence and Wall Height
9.4.   Definitions
10: Reviewing Agencies
10.1.   Overview
10.1.1.   Board of Adjustment (BOA)
10.1.2.   Board of Commissioners (BOC)
10.1.3.   Planning Board
10.1.4.   Technical Review Committee (TRC); and
10.1.5.   Town Staff, comprised of the Building Inspector, Planning Director,
and Town Manager
10.2.   Board of Adjustment (BOA)
10.2.1.   Powers and Duties
10.2.2.   Composition
10.2.3.   Rules of Procedure
10.3.   Board of Commissioners
10.3.1.   Powers and Duties
10.3.2.   Conflict of Interest
10.4.   Planning Board
10.4.1.   Powers and Duties
10.4.2.   Composition
10.4.3.   Rules of Procedure
10.5.   Technical Review Committee (TRC)
10.5.1.   Powers and Duties
10.5.2.   Composition
10.5.3.   Rules of Procedure
10.6.   Building Inspector
10.6.1.   Powers and Duties
10.7.   Planning Director
10.7.1.   Powers and Duties
10.8.   Town Manager
10.8.1.   Powers and Duties
Introduction
This document is the Town of Zebulon's Unified Development Ordinance (or
"UDO"). It contains the rules that control how land can be used in the Town,
what kinds of uses may be in particular locations, and how new development must
be configured. The following paragraphs describe this document and how to use
it.
The UDO replaces Chapter 152 of the Town Code of Ordinances (the Land Use
Ordinance), upon its effective date – January 1, 2020. While this document
implements the Town's adopted policy guidance, like the Comprehensive Plan, it
is regulatory (not advisory) in nature, and is a legal document that carries
the force of law.
The Town's zoning map is the graphical depiction of the location of the zoning
districts and is adopted by reference in the UDO. All the land within the
Town's corporate limits and extra-territorial jurisdiction has a zoning
district designation. The UDO makes several revisions to the Town's prior
zoning district line up, including the creation and establishment of two new
downtown zoning districts to be applied to lands around the downtown. The UDO
also creates three new zoning districts (commercial neighborhood, industrial
campus, and planned development) which are made available for request but not
proactively established on the zoning map. The UDO also consolidates the Town's
prior six residential zoning districts into three: suburban, neighborhood, and
urban. The UDO converts several special use districts to general use districts;
such as the RMF SUD, TR SUD, and HB SUD.
This document contains 10 articles that consolidate similar kinds of
provisions, like procedures, zoning districts, use standards, or development
standards into individual articles. It includes a text formatting system
comprised of numbered section and subsection headings that are designed to help
code users understand how the text in the document is organized.
The top of almost every page includes a listing of the particular article name,
as well as the appropriate section numbers of the text on that page. This
allows users to quickly navigate through the document using the tops of the
pages. Page numbers are included at the bottom of each page. Page numbers
include the article number so that a user may quickly see what article a page
is located in (which is helpful for navigating or referencing the document).
Some articles, like Article 2: Procedures, also include an introductory section
that explains how the regulations in the article are structured and how to use
them effectively. Where possible, provisions in a particular article are listed
in alphabetical order to allow users to quickly locate the desired text.
Readers are reminded that the UDO is a "living" document. In other words, the
text in the document and the zoning map can change from time-to-time. Users
should also be sure that they are using the most recent version of the UDO
document and zoning map.
Questions about the UDO, the zoning map, or other aspects of the development
review process should be directed to the Town's Planning Department at
919.823.1810. The Planning Department offices are open during normal business
hours at 1003 North Arendell Avenue in Zebulon. Information is also available
on the Town's website at www.townofzebulon.org.
Thank you for reviewing this material, and we look forward to serving you.
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1 - General Provisions
1: General Provisions
1.1.   Title
1.2.   Effective Date
1.3.   Authority
1.3.1.   General Assembly
1.3.2.   North Carolina General Statutes
1.3.3.   Town Charter
1.3.4.   Other Relevant Laws
1.4.   Purpose and Intent
1.4.1.   Keep Town Residents and Visitors Safe
1.4.2.   Foster a Convenient, Compatible Arrangement of Land Uses
1.4.3.   Protect the Natural Environment
1.4.4.   Ensure Properly Functioning Infrastructure
1.4.5.   Establish a Unique Sense of Place
1.4.6.   Promote a Strong and Diverse Economy
1.4.7.   Provide Adequate and Desirable Housing
1.5.   Applicability
1.5.1.   Territorial Jurisdiction
1.5.2.   Development Subject to this Ordinance
1.5.3.   Activities Exempted from this Ordinance
1.5.4.   Application to Governmental Units
1.5.5.   Emergency Exemptions
1.5.6.   Minimum Requirements
1.5.7.   Utility Allocation Policy
1.6.   Adopted Policy Guidance
1.6.1.   Policy Guidance Identified
1.6.2.   Conformance
1.7.   Procedures Manual
1.8.   Relationship to Other Laws and Agreements
1.8.1.   Review of Private Agreements
1.8.2.   Existing Agreements or Vested Rights
1.9.   Conflict
1.9.1.   Conflicts with State or Federal Law
1.9.2.   Conflicts with Other Town Codes or Laws
1.9.3.   Conflicts between the Standards in this Ordinance
1.9.4.   Conflicts with Private Agreements
1.9.5.   Determination of the More Restrictive Standard
1.10.   Transitional Provisions
1.10.1.   Prior Violations Continue
1.10.2.   Existing Nonconformities
1.10.3.   Pending Applications
1.10.4.   Approved Applications
1.10.5.   Existing Development
1.11.   Zoning District Translation
1.12.   Severability
1.1.   TITLE
This Ordinance is officially titled as the "Town of Zebulon, North Carolina
Unified Development Ordinance," and may be referred to as "the Unified
Development Ordinance," "this Ordinance," or by one or more other abbreviated
references ("the UDO," "this UDO," or "UDO").
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.2.   EFFECTIVE DATE
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect on January 1, 2020, and it
repeals and replaces the Town of Zebulon Land Use Ordinance, as originally
adopted on September 8, 1992, and as subsequently amended.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.3.   AUTHORITY
The authority to enact, administer, and enforce this UDO is derived from the
following sources:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.3.1.   General Assembly
The authority granted to the Town of Zebulon by the General Assembly of the
State of North Carolina.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.3.2.   North Carolina General Statutes
The North Carolina General Statutes, including:
   A.   Chapter 160A, Article 8 (Police Powers);
   B.   Chapter 160A, Article 15 (Streets, Traffic, and Parking);
   C.   Chapter 160D (Planning and Regulation of Development);
   D.   Chapter 143, Article 21 (Water and Air Resources); and
   E.   Chapter 113A, Article 4 (Sedimentation and Pollution Control).
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
1.3.3.   Town Charter
The Zebulon Town Charter.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.3.4.   Other Relevant Laws
   A.   All other relevant laws of the State of North Carolina; and
   B.   Any special legislation for the Town of Zebulon enacted by the North
Carolina General Assembly.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
The purpose of this Ordinance is to promote the public health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the community, and to ensure that all development within
the Town's planning jurisdiction is generally consistent with the Town's
adopted policy guidance pertaining to growth and development. More
specifically, this Ordinance is intended to pursue the following:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.1.   Keep Town Residents and Visitors Safe
   A.   The UDO is intended to protect the health and safety of all Town
residents and visitors by ensuring the provision of adequate open space between
uses for light, air, and fire safety.
   B.   The UDO seeks to require appropriate setbacks for buildings and other
structures to facilitate the safe movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic,
ensure the provision of adequate fire lanes, and maintenance of an adequate
distance between residential uses and the dust, noise, and fumes created by
vehicular traffic.
   C.   The UDO also seeks to secure the safety of landowners and residents
from flooding, fire, seismic activity, and dangers presented from extreme
weather events, to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.2.   Foster a Convenient, Compatible Arrangement of Land Uses
   A.   The UDO is intended to establish a compact and convenient arrangement
of land uses across the landscape in ways that promote orderly growth and
compatibility between different kinds of land uses like residential,
commercial, mixed-use, and agriculture.
   B.   The UDO strives to produce a sustainable balance of land uses
(residential, commercial, industrial, etc.) in order to assist with the fiscal
wellbeing of the Town and to ensure a diverse tax base.
   C.   The UDO seeks to promote redevelopment of underutilized sites served by
public infrastructure while at the same time protecting existing established
development and neighborhoods from incompatible infill and redevelopment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.3.   Protect the Natural Environment
   A.   The UDO intends to protect air and water quality, preserve open space,
protect natural resource areas (like wetlands and riparian areas), and preserve
a sufficient amount of wildlife habitat.
   B.   The UDO promotes sustainable development practices, like energy
conservation, low-impact development, and alternative modes of transportation
that do not contribute to the formation of greenhouse gases.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.4.   Ensure Properly Functioning Infrastructure
   A.   The UDO seeks to ensure sufficient and adequately functioning
infrastructure, including transportation, potable water, wastewater,
recreation, stormwater management, and communications through standards
requiring dedication of sufficient land for such facilities, and requirements
to construct or make payment in-lieu of constructing required infrastructure.
   B.   The UDO seeks to improve Town-wide and regional connectivity for
vehicles, pedestrians, and bicyclists through new extension and connection
provisions for greenways, trails, bicycle lanes, sidewalks, and streets.
   C.   The UDO seeks to coordinate the development of streets with other
public facilities so as to better manage and lessen congestion in the streets
as well as provisions that ensure the construction of necessary community
service facilities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.5.   Establish a Unique Sense of Place
The UDO promotes the Town's unique "sense of place" in eastern Wake County by
promoting revitalization of the downtown and surrounding areas, encouraging the
establishment of new greenways, and establishing new requirements for open
space set-asides.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.6.   Promote a Strong and Diverse Economy
The UDO emphasizes high-quality, aesthetically-appealing development and site
features as a means of attracting and retaining talent and promoting the Town's
economic competitiveness.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.4.7.   Provide Adequate and Desirable Housing
   A.   The UDO encourages urban densities in appropriate locations such as
downtown while also providing for a wider variety of housing types, sizes, and
standards of quality in order to meet changing housing preferences and housing
challenges facing Town residents.
   B.   The UDO also intends to preserve established neighborhood character and
ensure that infill development and redevelopment maintain compatibility with
established residential surroundings.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.   APPLICABILITY
1.5.1.   Territorial Jurisdiction
This Ordinance shall apply to any development that occurs within the corporate
limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) of the Town of Zebulon, unless
expressly provided otherwise by the terms of this Ordinance. When referenced
together, the land area within the corporate limits and the ETJ shall be
referred to as the Town's "planning jurisdiction."
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.2.   Development Subject to this Ordinance
Except as otherwise provided in writing elsewhere in this Ordinance (e.g.,
Section
1.5.3, Activities Exempted from this Ordinance), any of the following
activities shall be subject to the requirements in this Ordinance:
   A.   Any Construction. Any construction, reconstruction, erection,
installation, placement, relocation, renovation, remodeling, demolition, or
alteration in the size of a building or other structure on land.
   B.   New Uses or Changes in Use. The establishment of a new use of land or
structure, a new open-air use of land, or any change in such use.
   C.   Changes in Intensity. Any change in the intensity of the use of land or
a structure, such as:
      1.   An increase in the number of businesses, establishments, offices,
dwelling units, or lodging units comprising the use;
      2.   An increase in the number of off-street parking spaces provided by
the use;
      3.   An increase in the volume or characteristics of vehicular traffic
generated by the use;
      4.   An increase in noise levels, thermal conditions, or emissions of
waste materials associated with the use;
      5.   An increase in the minimum landscaping, screening, or buffering
requirements associated with the use;
      6.   An increase in the number of off-street parking spaces;
      7.   An increase in the number of signs, sign face area, or sign height;
or
      8.   An increase in the duration of a temporary or seasonal use.
   D.   Changes in Impervious Surface. Any land-disturbing activity that
increases or changes the amount of impervious or partially impervious cover or
that otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation or surface water
runoff into the soil.
   E.   Alteration of Topography. An alteration of the natural topography of
land, such as mining, grading, ditching, extracting earth materials, dredging,
excavation, filling, or deposition of soil.
   F.   Removal of Required Vegetation. The removal of required vegetative
cover, such as site clearing or the removal of protected existing trees.
   G.   Alteration of Watercourse. Any alteration of the channel, bank, shore,
floodway, or floodplain of a watercourse, body of water, or wetland.
   H.   Division of Land. Any division of a parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) except where exempted by State law,
and any division of land involving dedication of a new street or a change in
existing streets.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.3.   Activities Exempted from this Ordinance
The following activities do not constitute development subject to this
Ordinance, but may be subject to other provisions in the Town Code of
Ordinances:
   A.   Inspection. The inspection, maintenance, or repair of an existing
transportation facility (e.g., roadway, walkway, trail, railroad tracks,
traffic control device, etc.) or an existing utility, stormwater management
device, or public service facility (pipe, cable, valve, catch basin, outlet,
ditch, basin, bulk refuse container pad, etc.), if no substantial engineering
redesign is involved;
   B.   Maintenance. The ordinary maintenance and repair of existing
structures, where no activities identified in Section
1.5.2, Development Subject to this Ordinance, or subject to State Building Code
(s) requirements are involved;
   C.   Planting. The ordinary planting or maintenance of vegetative
landscaping or gardens not otherwise required by this Ordinance;
   D.   Change in Ownership. A change in the ownership or form of ownership of
any parcel or structure;
   E.   Changes in Title. The creation or termination of easements, covenants,
condominium titles, or other rights in land or development, where no street
right-of-way dedication in involved; or
   F.   Exempt Division of Land. Any division of land proposed as one of the
activities specially listed as excluded from the definition of "subdivision" in
Section
9.4, Definitions.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.4.   Application to Governmental Units
To the extent allowed by law, this Ordinance shall apply to any development by
Town, county, state, or federal agencies within the Town's planning
jurisdiction, and any land, buildings, and structures—including uses
thereof—owned or otherwise controlled by such agencies. Where this Ordinance
does not control the development of land, buildings, and structures, such
agencies are encouraged to meet the provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.5.   Emergency Exemptions
The Town Manager may, without any otherwise required prior notice or public
hearing, authorize Town agencies to deviate from the provisions of this
Ordinance during and after an emergency (such as a hurricane or other storm,
flooding, chemical spill or leak) when the need to act quickly to secure the
public health, safety, or welfare makes it impossible to submit to the normal
procedures and requirements of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.6.   Minimum Requirements
In the application of this Ordinance, all provisions shall be considered as
minimum requirements and shall not be deemed to limit or repeal any other
powers or authority granted to the Town under the North Carolina General
Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.5.7.   Utility Allocation Policy
   In order to preserve and enhance property values, manage its limited water
supply as a vital natural resource, promote economic development, and
incentivize smart growth practices, the allocation of Zebulon’s potable water
and sanitary capacity shall adhere to an approved Utility Allocation Policy for
the following development processes:
   A.   Site Plan for development of non-residential site (new or
redevelopment);
   B.   Site Plan for residential development consisting of three or more
dwellings;
   C.   Conditional Rezoning requests;
   D.   Planned Development requests;
   E.   Special Land Use requests;
   F.   Major Subdivision requests.
(Ord. 2022-42, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-9-2022)
1.6.   ADOPTED POLICY GUIDANCE
1.6.1.   Policy Guidance Identified
The administration, enforcement, and amendment of this Ordinance shall be
accomplished in accordance with the Town's adopted policy guidance. This
includes the Comprehensive Plan and all other Town-adopted policy guidance
pertaining to land use and development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.6.2.   Conformance
   A.   Advisory. Adopted policy guidance is advisory in nature and does not
carry the effect of law. Except as provided in G.S. §§ 160D-605, consistency
with adopted policy guidance shall not be a requirement for the continuing
validity of any provision of this Ordinance.
   B.   Consistency.
      1.   This Ordinance is intended to promote development that is consistent
with the goals, objectives, policies, strategies, and actions contained in the
Town's adopted policy guidance.
      2.   Consistency between a decision made under this Ordinance and the
Town's adopted policy guidance is desirable, but is not a legal requirement.
      3.   Decisions on applications for amendments to the text of this
Ordinance or to the Official Zoning Map shall be accompanied by a statement of
consistency recognizing if the proposed decision is or is not consistent with
the Town's adopted policy guidance in accordance with G.S. § 160D-605.
   C.   Amendment Upon Inconsistency.
      1.   To the extent this Ordinance is or becomes inconsistent with the
Town's adopted policy guidance, either this Ordinance or the adopted policy
guidance, as appropriate, should be amended to retain consistency.
      2.   All amendments to this Ordinance's text or to the Official Zoning
Map should maintain and enhance consistency between this Ordinance and adopted
policy guidance.
      3.   The Board of Commissioners may, as part of the approval of an
amendment to the text of this Ordinance or the Official Zoning Map, declare
that the Town's adopted policy guidance is also amended for consistency with
the approved amendment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-19; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
1.7.   PROCEDURES MANUAL
The Procedures Manual is a separate document that supplements the procedures
and requirements in this Ordinance with application forms, submittal
requirements, certification statements for inclusion on plans or plats, the
timing of review, and other resource information for applicants.
1.7.1.   The Planning Director, with assistance from the Public Works Director,
shall maintain the Procedures Manual.
1.7.2.   Material in the Procedures Manual is supplemental and is not intended
to replace any of the standards or requirements of this Ordinance or other
regulatory document. In the event of a conflict between the Procedures Manual
and other adopted ordinance of the Town, the adopted ordinance shall control.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.8.   RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND AGREEMENTS
1.8.1.   Review of Private Agreements
   A.   The Town may review and comment on private agreements, when necessary,
including, but not limited to: the establishment and operation of an owners'
association; maintenance of private infrastructure held in common by an owners'
association; maintenance and operation of off-street parking agreements;
easements in favor of the Town; or access easements in favor of the general
public.
   B.   The Town is not responsible for monitoring or enforcing private
agreements, covenants, or deed restrictions between individuals or members of
an owners' association.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.8.2.   Existing Agreements or Vested Rights
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to repeal, supersede, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing private agreements or vested rights, provided such
agreements or vested rights are lawfully established and remain in effect.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.9.   CONFLICT
1.9.1.   Conflicts with State or Federal Law
If a provision of this Ordinance is inconsistent with State or federal law, the
more restrictive provision controls, to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.9.2.   Conflicts with Other Town Codes or Laws
If a provision of this Ordinance is inconsistent with another provision found
in other adopted ordinances of the Town, the more restrictive provision shall
govern, unless the terms of the more restrictive provision specifies otherwise.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.9.3.   Conflicts between the Standards in this Ordinance
   A.   Generally. In cases where two or more standards in this Ordinance
conflict with one another, the more restrictive standard shall control.
   B.   Development Review Procedures. In cases where the standards in Section
2.3, Application Processing, or information in the Procedures Manual conflict
with the standards in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures, the standards in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures, shall control.
   C.   Overlay Districts.
      1.   In cases where applicable overlay zoning district standards are in
conflict with applicable general zoning district standards, the overlay
district standards shall control.
      2.   In cases where applicable overlay zoning district standards are in
conflict with applicable conditional zoning district standards, the more
restrictive standards shall control.
   D.   Authorized Deviations or Incentives. Development configured in
accordance with an allowable deviation (e.g., administrative adjustment) or
incentive (e.g., sustainable development incentives) authorized by this
Ordinance shall not be considered to conflict with otherwise applicable more
restrictive standards in this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.9.4.   Conflicts with Private Agreements
In cases where the standards in this Ordinance conflict with private
agreements, covenants, or deed restrictions and the standards in this Ordinance
are more restrictive, the standards in this Ordinance shall control.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.9.5.   Determination of the More Restrictive Standard
The more restrictive provision is the one that imposes greater restrictions or
burdens, or more stringent controls.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.10.   Transitional Provisions
The standards in this section address existing violations, nonconformities, and
applications in process at the time this Ordinance becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.10.1.   Prior Violations Continue
   A.   Any violation of the previous UDO shall continue to be a violation
under this Ordinance, unless the development complies with the express terms of
this Ordinance or the statute of limitations on enforcement has expired in
accordance with Section
8.3, Statute of Limitations.
   B.   Any violation of the previous UDO that is no longer a violation under
this Ordinance shall not be considered a violation.
   C.   Violations of this Ordinance shall be subject to the penalties set
forth in
Article 8: Enforcement, unless the development complies with the express terms
of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.10.2.   Existing Nonconformities
If any use, building, structure, lot, sign, or site feature legally existed on
January 1, 2020, but does not fully comply with the standards of this
Ordinance, the use, building, structure, lot, sign, or site feature is
considered nonconforming under this Ordinance and shall be subject to the
requirements in
Article 7: Nonconformities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.10.3.   Pending Applications
   A.   Final Action Pending.
      1.   Any development application filed and accepted as complete before
January 1, 2020, but still pending final action as of that date, may be decided
in accordance with either the regulations in affect at the time the application
was determined complete or the regulations in this Ordinance, as requested by
the applicant in accordance with G.S. § 143-755.
      2.   To the extent an application is approved and proposes development
that does not comply with this Ordinance, the subsequent development, although
permitted, shall be nonconforming and subject to the provisions of
Article 7: Nonconformities.
      3.   If the development subject to an application approved under the
Town's prior development regulations fails to comply with the required time
frames, it shall expire and future development shall be subject to the
requirements of this Ordinance.
   B.   Filed, but Not Complete Applications. Applications that have been filed
prior to January 1, 2020, but not determined to be complete by the Planning
Director shall be reviewed and decided in accordance with this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.10.4.   Approved Applications
The following standards apply to applications approved prior to January 1,
2020:
   A.   Any development approvals shall remain valid until their expiration
date.
   B.   Developments with valid approvals or permits may be carried out in
accordance with the terms and conditions of their approval and the development
standards in effect at the time of approval, provided the permit or approval is
valid and has not expired.
   C.   Portions of developments, including subdivisions, reserved as future
development sites where no lot lines are shown on a preliminary plat, site
plan, or other approved plan of development shall comply with the provisions of
this Ordinance.
   D.   If an approval expires or is revoked (e.g., for failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of approval), any subsequent development of the site
shall be applied for in accordance with the procedures and standards of this
Ordinance.
   E.   Timelines for the commencement or expiration of development in
accordance with an approved application shall be suspended in the event of
legal challenge.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.10.5.   Existing Development
   A.   Existing Special Use Zoning District Designation.
      1.   Land subject to a special use zoning district designation on January
1, 2020 shall continue to be subject to the district designation and all
applicable conditions of approval after January 1, 2020.
      2.   Amendments to the zoning district designation of a lot after January
1, 2020 shall only be to a zoning district established in this Ordinance and in
accordance with Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment, or Section
2.2.13, Planned Development, as appropriate.
   B.   Prior Approved Planned Residential Development.
      1.   A planned residential development subject to a special use permit
approved prior to January 1, 2020 is authorized to continue to subject to its
master plan, special use permit, and all associated conditions of approval.
      2.   Amendments to a planned residential development established prior to
January 1, 2020 shall only be considered in accordance with Section
2.2.13, Planned Development.
   C.   Pre-Existing Conditional or Special Use Permit.
      1.   Development subject to a conditional or special use permit issued
prior to January 1, 2020 shall continue to be subject to all permit
requirements and conditions of approval even in cases where the use type no
longer requires a conditional or special use permit in this Ordinance.
      2.   Amendments to a conditional or special use permit established prior
to January 1, 2020 shall only be in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.18, Special Use Permit, unless the use is permitted by-right in this
Ordinance.
   D.   Established Uses Without a Special Use Permit.
      1.   If a use was a lawfully established by-right use before January 1,
2020 and that use is subsequently made a special use in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, the pre-existing use shall be considered a
lawfully-established special use.
      2.   Any changes to a pre-existing lawfully-established special use after
January 1, 2020 shall be in accordance with the standards of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.11.   ZONING DISTRICT TRANSLATION
On January 1, 2020, land zoned with a zoning district classification from the
previous Land Use Ordinance shall be translated or reclassified to one of the
zoning district classifications in this Ordinance as set forth in Section
3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established.
Table 1.11, Zoning District Translation, summarizes the translation or
reclassification of the zoning districts used in the previous ordinance to the
zoning districts used in this Ordinance. (For example, the table shows that all
lands classified as Residential-30 (R-30) in the previous ordinance (under the
column titled "Districts in the Former Land Use Ordinance") are now classified
Residential Suburban (R2) in this Ordinance (under the column titled "Districts
in this UDO")).
Table 1.11: Zoning District Translation
Districts in the Former Land Use Ordinance Districts in this UDO [1]
Table 1.11: Zoning District Translation
Districts in the Former Land Use Ordinance   Districts in this UDO [1]
Residential Districts
R-80W   Residential – 80W                  R1  Residential Watershed
R-40W   Residential – 40W
R-30    Residential – 30                   R2  Residential Suburban
R-20    Residential – 20
R-13    Residential – 13                   R4  Residential Neighborhood
R-10    Residential - 10
R-8     Residential – 8                    R6  Residential Urban
RMF     Residential Multi-Family
RMF SUD Residential Multi-Family Special Use RMF Residential Multi-Family
        District
RMH     Residential Mobile Home (30, 20, 13,     [DELETE] [2]
        10, 8)
Commercial Districts
                                             NC  Neighborhood Commercial [NEW]
GB      General Business                     GC  General Commercial
HB      Heavy Business                       HC  Heavy Commercial
HB SUD  Heavy Business Special Use District
IL      Light Industrial                     LI  Light Industrial
                                             CI  Campus Industrial [NEW]
Table 1.11: Zoning District Translation
Districts in the Former Land Use Ordinance Districts in this UDO [1]
Table 1.11: Zoning District Translation
Districts in the Former Land Use        Districts in this UDO [1]
Ordinance
IH       Heavy Industrial
IH SUD   Heavy Industrial Special Use   HI       Heavy Industrial
         District
Mixed Use Districts
TR       Transitional Residential
TR SUD   Transitional Residential       OI       Office and Institutional
         Special Use District
MA       Medical Arts
CB       Central Business               DTP      Downtown Periphery
                                        DTC      Downtown Core
                                        PD       Planned Development [NEW]
Special Use Districts
R-13 SUD Residential – 13 Special Use R-13 SUD Residential – 13 Special Use
         District                                District
CA SUD   Commercial Amusement Special   CA SUD   Commercial Amusement Special
         Use District                            Use District
NOTES:
[1] This table does not list the parallel conditional zoning districts
established in Section
3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established.
[2] Land within a RMH district shall be translated into the appropriate
residential district and included within the proposed Manufactured Housing
Overlay (MHO) District.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
1.12.   SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, illustration, sentence, boundary, clause, or phrase
of this Ordinance is for any reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid, the BOC hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance
and any section, subsection, illustration, sentence, boundary, clause, and
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that some portion of this Ordinance
may be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 2 - PROCEDURES
2.1.   How to Use this Article
2.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
2.1.2.   Article Contents
2.1.3.   Steps in the Development Review Process
2.1.4.   For Additional Information
2.2.   Application Review Procedures
2.2.1.   Administrative Adjustment
2.2.2.   Annexation
2.2.3.   Appeal
2.2.4.   Building Permit
2.2.5.   Certificate of Occupancy
2.2.6.   Conditional Rezoning
2.2.7.   Construction Drawing
2.2.8.   Development Agreement
2.2.9.   Exempt Subdivision
2.2.10.   Expedited Subdivision
2.2.11.   Final Plat
2.2.12.   Floodplain Development Permit
2.2.13.   Interpretation
2.2.14.   Non-Residential Site Plan
2.2.15.   Planned Development
2.2.16.   Reasonable Accommodation
2.2.17.   Residential Preliminary Plan
2.2.18.   Sign Permit
2.2.19.   Special Use Permit
2.2.20.   Temporary Use Permit
2.2.21.   UDO Text Amendment
2.2.22.   Variance
2.2.23.   Vested Rights Determination
2.2.24.   Zoning Compliance Permit
2.2.25.   Zoning Map Amendment
2.3.   Application Processing
2.3.1.   Purpose and Intent
2.3.2.   Pre-application Conference
2.3.3.   Application Filing
2.3.4.   Neighborhood Meeting
2.3.5.   Staff Review and Action
2.3.6.   Public Notice
2.3.7.   Public Hearings and Meetings
2.3.8.   Conditions of Approval
2.3.9.   Notification of Decision
2.3.10.   Effect
2.3.11.   Continuance, Postponement, and Withdrawal
2.3.12.   Limitation on Subsequent Similar Applications
2.1.   HOW TO USE THIS ARTICLE
Article 2: Procedures, includes the information for how to submit an
application for development, how it will be reviewed, and what happens after a
decision on an application is made by the Town.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
This article sets out the review procedure used by the Town for each of the
development application types subject to this Ordinance. The intent of these
provisions is to:
   A.   Identify the steps in the review process for each type of application;
   B.   Increase predictability for applicants by standardizing the text
describing the different development application review procedures;
   C.   Establish measurable review criteria for decision-makers to use in
making a decision on an application; and
   D.   Comply with all applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.1.2.   Article Contents
   A.   Article 2 is comprised of three main sections: how to use the article
(Section
2.1, How to Use this Article), a section called "application review procedures"
(Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures) that describes the application review
procedures (in alphabetical order) for each type of development application,
and an "application processing" (Section
2.3, Application Processing) section that explains the standardized process
used by the Town in the review of an application.
   B.   Each application review procedure includes a procedural flowchart that
depicts the steps in the review process (See
Figure 2.1.2.B: Flowchart Example). Each step is sequentially numbered from the
top (the beginning) to the bottom (the end). White boxes in the flowchart
indicate actions of the applicant. Boxes with dashed lines show optional steps
that may be undertaken by the applicant. Green boxes indicate actions of Town
staff. Grey boxes show public meetings or legislative public hearings (as
appropriate), and black boxes show quasi-judicial public hearings.
Figure 2.1.2.B: Flowchart Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
2.1.3.   Steps in the Development Review Process
   A.   The first step in the development review process is to determine the
specific type(s) of development application to be submitted.
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures, describes all the application review
procedures in this Ordinance and the review authorities who decide them.
   B.   The second step is to find the relevant application procedure in
Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures, and review that information to better
understand the steps and the criteria used in the decision-making process.
   C.   The third step is to review the application processing information in
Section
2.3, Application Processing, to understand how the Town will process the
application.
   D.   Step four is to review the Procedures Manual for application forms,
submittal requirements, application fees, and application review schedules.
   E.   Applications that are not prepared, filed, and determined to be
complete in accordance with this article and the Procedures Manual will not be
processed by the Town.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.1.4.   For Additional Information
Applicants who need additional information on how to file an application should
schedule a pre-application conference with Town staff (see Section
2.3.2, Pre-application Conference) to better understand the review requirements
and relevant procedural steps associated with their particular application.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.   APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures, lists the development application
procedures (in alphabetical order), identifies the section of this Ordinance
where the information may be found, whether or not a pre-application conference
is required or is optional, and the review authority(ies) who review and decide
the application type.
TABLE 2.2: APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES
Pre-application Conference: "M" = Mandatory "O" = Optional "." = not applicable
Type of Action: "R" = Recommendation "D" = Decision "A" = Appeal
Table symbols: | | = Public Meeting < > = Legislative Public Hearing / \ =Quasi-
Judicial Hearing
[ ] = see Notes
                    Pre-        Review Authorities
Review    Section   application Planning Technical Planning Board of      Board of
Procedure Reference Conference  Director Review    Board    Commissioners Adjustment
                                [1]      Committee [2]
TABLE 2.2: APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES
Pre-application Conference: "M" = Mandatory "O" = Optional "." = not applicable
Type of Action: "R" = Recommendation "D" = Decision "A" = Appeal
Table symbols: | | = Public Meeting < > = Legislative Public Hearing / \ =Quasi-Judicial
Hearing
[ ] = see Notes
                         Pre-        Review Authorities
Review         Section   application Planning Technical Planning Board of      Board of
Procedure      Reference Conference  Director Review    Board    Commissioners Adjustment
                                     [1]      Committee [2]
Annexation [3] 2.2.2     O           .        .         .        <D>           .
Appeal         2.2.3     O           .        .         .        .             /D\
Building       2.2.4     O           [4]      .         .        .             .
Permit
Certificate of 2.2.5     O           [4]      .         .        .             .
Occupancy
Conditional    2.2.6     M           .        [6]       |R|      |D|           .
Rezoning [2]
Construction   2.2.7     O           .        D
Drawing
Development    2.2.8     M           .        .         .        <D>           .
Agreement
Exempt
Subdivision    2.2.9     O           D        .         .        .             /A\
[5]
Expedited      2.2.10    M           D        .         .        .             /A\
Subdivision
Final Plat     2.2.11    O           D        .         .        .             /A\
Floodplain
Development    2.2.12    O           D        .         .        .             /A\
Permit
Interpretation 2.2.13    O           D        .         .        .             /A\
Non-
Residential    2.2.14    M           .        D         [2]      [2]           /A\
Site Plan
Planned
Development    2.2.15    M           .        [6]       |R|      |D|           .
[2]
Reasonable     2.2.16    M                                                     /D\
Accommodation
Residential
Preliminary    2.2.17    M           .        D         [2]      [2]           /A\
Plan
Sign Permit    2.2.18    O           D        .         .        .             /A\
Special Use    2.2.19    M           .        [6]       .        /D\           .
Permit
Temporary Use  2.2.20    O           D        .         .        .             /A\
Permit
UDO Text       2.2.21    M           .        .         |R|      |D|           .
Amendment [2]
Variance       2.2.22    M           .        .         .        .             /D\
Vested Rights  2.2.23    M           .        .         .        <D>           .
Determination
Zoning
Compliance     2.2.24    O           D        .         .        .             /A\
Permit
Zoning Map     2.2.25    M           .        .         |R|      |D|           .
Amendment [2]
NOTES:
[1] The Planning Director may delegate review authority in accordance with Section
9.1.9, Delegation of Authority.
[2] Applications subject to a recommendation by the Planning Board shall first be heard
by the Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board in a joint legislative public
hearing noticed in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice. Following the joint public hearing, the application is considered
by the Planning Board during a public meeting and then by the Board of Commissioners in a
second public meeting. Public meetings are not subject to public notification
requirements in Section
2.3.6, Public Notice.
[3] In the event land being annexed is also subject to another application (such as a
zoning map amendment), the annexation shall be reviewed and decided prior to any
subsequent application.
[4] Building permits and certificates of occupancy are issued in cooperation with the
Wake County Building Inspector.
[5] The exempt subdivision review procedure is provided as a courtesy, and is not
mandated.
[6] The TRC shall conduct a preliminary review of a site or concept plan attached to an
application prior to consideration by the Board of Commissioners.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2024-10, passed 9-11-2023)
2.2.1.   Administrative Adjustment
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this section is to establish a
clear procedure and measurable review criteria for the administrative
consideration of requests for minor deviations to certain numeric standards in
this Ordinance (like zoning district dimensional standards). The intent of the
procedure is to provide relief from practical difficulties in complying with
the standards of this Ordinance. Administrative adjustments should only be
granted when the proposed development advances the purposes of this Ordinance,
and the proposed development can maintain compatibility with its surroundings.
Figure 2.2.1: Administrative Adjustment Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   An administrative adjustment may be requested for a modification or
deviation of up to 10 percent of any zoning district dimensional standard in
Article 3: Districts, a numeric standard in
Article 4: Uses, a numeric standard in
Article 5: Development Standards, a numeric requirement in
Article 6: Subdivisions, or a numeric requirement in Section
9.3, Rules of Measurement.
      2.   In no instance shall an administrative adjustment application seek
to reduce the required minimum lot area, exceed the maximum residential density
on a lot, reduce the minimum required distance between two use types, or reduce
the standards pertaining to flood protection, stormwater management, or erosion
control.
      3.   Applications for planned developments, zoning map amendments, or
variances may not include requests for administrative adjustments.
   C.   Timing.
      1.   An administrative adjustment may be requested either as a stand-
alone application, or in combination with another application for development
review.
      2.   In cases when submitted with another application, the administrative
adjustment portion of the application shall be reviewed and decided prior to
the other portion(s) of the application.
   D.   Administrative Adjustment Procedure. The administrative adjustment
procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.1, Administrative Adjustment Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
   E.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on an administrative
adjustment shall be made by the Planning Director in accordance with the
standards in Section
2.2.1.F, Administrative Adjustment Review Standards.
   F.   Administrative Adjustment Review Standards. An administrative
adjustment shall be approved if the applicant demonstrates all of the
following:
      1.   The administrative adjustment does not exceed the maximum allowable
threshold;
      2.   The administrative adjustment will result in development that is
consistent with the character of development on surrounding land, and is
compatible with surrounding land uses;
      3.   The administrative adjustment:
         a.   Is required to compensate for some unusual aspect of the site or
the proposed development that is not shared by landowners in general; or
         b.   Supports an objective or goal from the purpose and intent
statements of the zoning district where it is located; or
         c.   Is necessary to allow for proper functioning of on-site
wastewater or stormwater management devices; or
         d.   Saves healthy existing trees; or
         e.   Promotes some other written goal, objective, or purpose of this
Ordinance.
      4.   The administrative adjustment will not pose a danger to the public
health or safety;
      5.   The administrative adjustment will not negatively impact the
function or performance of on-site wastewater or stormwater management devices;
      6.   Adverse impacts resulting from the administrative adjustment will be
fully mitigated; and
      7.   The development standard being adjusted is not the subject of a
previously approved administrative adjustment, condition of approval, or
variance on the same site.
   G.   Amendment . Amendment of an administrative adjustment may only be
reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   H.   Expiration. If an administrative adjustment is associated with another
permit or development approval, the expiration of the administrative adjustment
shall be the same as the permit or development approval with which it is
associated. In all other cases, the administrative adjustment shall run with
the land.
   I.   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on an administrative adjustment shall be
reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance
with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.2.   Annexation
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this section is to establish a
procedure for the consideration of voluntary annexation petitions from
landowners seeking to add additional lands to the corporate limits of the Town.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners may review and decide voluntary
annexation petitions from:
         a.   The owners of land that are contiguous with the Town's corporate
limits; and
         b.   The owners of land that are not contiguous to the corporate
limits when the proposed voluntary annexation complies with the following
standards:
            i.   The land proposed for annexation is no more than three miles
from the contiguous corporate limits; and
            ii.   No portion of the land proposed for annexation is closer to
the contiguous corporate limits of another municipality unless the land is
subject to an approved annexation agreement that includes the land within the
Town's ultimate planning jurisdiction; and
            iii.   If the land proposed for annexation is part of a recorded
subdivision, all lots in the recorded subdivision are part of the annexation
petition; and
            iv.   The combined total land area associated with the annexation,
when added to all other noncontiguous land areas annexed by the Town does not
exceed 10 percent of the land area located within the Town's contiguous
corporate limits.
      2.   The Town may accept voluntary annexation petitions from landowners
that do not meet the criteria in subsection (1) above, but may not decide them
until the application is consistent with subsection (1) above.
      3.   In cases where the Town may not voluntarily annex land, it may use a
development agreement (see Section
2.2.8, Development Agreement) to extend Town utilities to the land prior to
annexation.
   C.   Timing. In cases where land proposed for annexation is subject to any
additional development applications reviewed in accordance with this Ordinance,
the annexation application shall be reviewed and decided prior to the decision
on any other applications.
   D.   Application Submittal.
      1.   The annexation petition shall be signed by all the owners of land
proposed for annexation.
      2.   An annexation petition shall include a signed statement declaring
whether or not any vested right with respect to the land subject to the
petition has been established under Section 160D-108 of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   E.   Annexation Procedure.
      1.   The annexation procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.2, Annexation Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
      2.   Following receipt of an annexation petition the Town Clerk shall
investigate and certify whether the petition is legally sufficient. Only
legally sufficient petitions shall be considered by the Town.
      3.   The Planning Director shall review the petition and comment on the
Town's ability to provide municipal services.
Figure 2.2.2: Annexation Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
   F.   Board of Commissioners Review and Decision.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of a legislative
public hearing, shall decide the application in accordance with Section
2.2.2.G, Annexation Review Standards.
      2.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Approval of the annexation petition;
         b.   Denial of the annexation petition; or
         c.   Remand of the annexation petition to Town staff for further
consideration.
   G.   Annexation Review Standards. Approval of an annexation is a matter
committed to the legislative discretion of the Town Board of Commissioners. The
voluntary annexation petition may be approved upon a finding the petition
complies with all the standards in Section 160A-31 or Section 160A-58 in the
North Carolina General Statutes, as appropriate, and:
      1.   The annexation petition bears the signatures of all landowners
within the area to be annexed;
      2.   The area to be annexed can be adequately served by the same
municipal services provided within the Town's primary corporate limits;
      3.   The debt obligations from serving the subject lands do not exceed
the anticipated revenues to the Town; and
      4.   The public health, safety, and welfare of Town residents and the
residents of the lands proposed for annexation will be best served by the
annexation.
   H.   Recording. An ordinance approving a voluntary annexation adopted by the
Town, together with a map of the annexed area, shall be recorded in the office
of the Wake County Register of Deeds within 14 days of the adoption of the
annexation.
   I.   Effect.
      1.   Within 60 days of annexation, the BOC shall adopt a zoning district
classification for the land involved. The BOC may consider a Town-initiated or
landowner-initiated zoning map amendment immediately following approval of the
annexation.
      2.   Upon the effective date of annexation, the land shall be subject to
the debts, laws, ordinances and regulations of the Town, and shall be entitled
to the same privileges and benefits as other parts of the Town.
   J.   Amendment. A decision on an annexation shall not be amended.
   K.   Expiration.
      1.   A decision on an annexation shall not expire.
      2.   Land may be de-annexed only by act of the North Carolina General
Assembly.
   L.   Appeal.
      1.   Any decision by the Board of Commissioners shall be subject to
review by the Superior Court of Wake County.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-21)
2.2.3.   Appeal
   A.   Purpose and Intent. This appeal procedure is proposed to establish a
clear and predictable procedure for persons with standing to appeal a decision,
or interpretation by a Town official.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Appeals of decisions or interpretations by a Town official made
pursuant to this Ordinance shall be reviewed and decided by the Board of
Adjustment (BOA) in accordance with this section.
      2.   Appeals of decisions made by the Board of Commissioners or BOA shall
be to the Superior Court for Wake County, in accordance with state law.
      3.   In the event an applicant wishes to appeal a standard outside this
Ordinance, or a decision by a staff member not addressed by this Ordinance, the
appeal shall be made to the Town Manager in accordance with Town policy.
   C.   Initiation. An appeal shall be initiated by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Planning Director within 30 days of the date the written
determination or decision being appealed is received by the applicant (except
where otherwise specified in this Ordinance).
   D.   Appeal Procedure. The Appeal procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.3, Appeal Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.3: Appeal Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
   E.   Review and Decision by the Board of Adjustment.
      1.   The BOA, at the conclusion of a quasi-judicial public hearing, shall
decide the application for the appeal.
      2.   The decision shall be based on the competent, material, and
substantial evidence in the record of the appeal, as supplemented by arguments
presented at the quasi-judicial hearing, and the standards in Section
2.2.3.F, Appeal Review Standards.
      3.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Affirmation of the decision or interpretation (in whole or in
part);
         b.   Modification of the decision or interpretation (in whole or in
part); or
         c.   Reversal of the decision or interpretation (in whole or in part).
      4.   A vote to reverse or modify a decision or determination shall
require approval of a majority of a quorum present at the hearing.
      5.   Each decision shall be made in writing and reflect the BOA's
determination of contested facts and their application to the standards in this
Ordinance.
      6.   The written decision shall be signed by the Chair or other duly
authorized member of the BOA.
      7.   The decision of the BOA shall be effective upon the filing of the
written decision in the offices of the Planning Department.
   F.   Appeal Review Standards.
      1.   The BOA is limited to the following determinations in considering
the appeal:
         a.   Whether the decision-maker erred in the interpretation of this
Ordinance; or
         b.   Whether the decision-maker erred in determining whether a
standard of this Ordinance was met.
      2.   The BOA shall not hear any evidence or make any decision based on
hardships or special conditions except as part of an application for a
variance.
   G.   Effect.
      1.   An appeal stops all proceedings and actions by the applicant.
      2.   A Town official may file a certification requiring the applicant to
continue with some portion of the development activity only in cases where a
stop of development activity would cause imminent peril to life or property.
      3.   If certification by a Town official is filed, development activity
specified in the certification shall not be stayed except through issuance of a
restraining order by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   The appellant may file for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and
the BOA shall meet to consider the appeal with 15 days of the date the request
is filed.
      5.   The filing of an appeal prevents the filing of an application for a
zoning map amendment, special use permit, zoning compliance permit, or building
permit for the same land subject to an appeal application, as well as the
filing of a text amendment application by the same party filing the appeal
until the appeal application is decided or appealed to the courts.
   H.   Amendment. A decision on an appeal shall not be amended, but may be
appealed to the Superior Court for Wake County.
   I.   Expiration. A decision on an appeal shall not expire.
   J.   Appeal.
      1.   Any decision by the BOA shall be subject to review by the Superior
Court of Wake County by proceedings in the nature of certiorari and in
accordance with Section 160D-1402 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.4.   Building Permit
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for the building permit procedure is to
establish a consistent process for the review and approval of construction
activities for consistency with all applicable building codes to give
reasonable assurance that new development is safe from structural failure, fire
hazards, electrical shock, or any other applicable health risks, as well as to
establish a permanent record of work performed and inspections conducted.
   B.   Applicability. Unless exempted in accordance with this Ordinance or the
State Building Code(s), no construction, reconstruction, addition, alteration,
repair, movement to another site, removal, demolition of any building or
structure, or changes in use triggering the need for application of a different
set of building code requirements shall occur until a building permit is
approved in accordance with the procedures and standards of this section.
   C.   Exemptions. The following forms of development are exempted from the
requirement to obtain a building permit, but shall be subject to the standards
in Section
2.2.24, Zoning Compliance Permit:
      1.   Storage and accessory buildings that serve a residential principal
use, are 12 linear feet in length or less on any dimension, and do not include
electrical service or running water;
      2.   Patios and at-grade walkways;
      3.   Playground equipment and play structures provided as accessory uses
to a single-family residential dwelling; or
      4.   Fences or privacy walls of 6 feet in height or less, except that all
retaining walls shall require a building permit.
   D.   Building Permit Procedure. The building permit procedure is described
in
Figure 2.2.4, Building Permit Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, information posted on Wake County's digital Permit
Portal, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.4: Building Permit Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
   E.   Decision by Inspections Director. The decision on a building permit
shall be made by the Wake County Building Inspections Director following
approval of the request by the Planning Director. Decisions on building permit
applications shall be in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.4.F, Building Permit Review Standards.
   F.   Building Permit Review Standards. A building permit shall be issued if
the application complies with:
      1.   The applicable sections of the State Building Code(s);
      2.   The standards in Section 160D-403 of the North Carolina General
Statutes;
      3.   Any applicable requirements of the Wake County Environmental
Services Department;
      4.   The site plan, if applicable;
      5.   The zoning compliance permit;
      6.   All other standards or conditions of any prior, applicable permits,
and development approvals; and
      7.   All other applicable requirements of this Ordinance, the Town Code
of Ordinances, state law, and federal law.
   G.   Expiration.
      1.   A building permit shall expire and become null and void if the
development it authorizes is not commenced within six months of the permit
issuance.
      2.   If development authorized by a building permit commences but fails
to achieve at least one passing inspection (foundation, footing, framing,
mechanical, etc.) for a continuous period of 12 months, the permit shall expire
and become null and void.
   H.   Appeal.
      1.   An appeal of a decision on a building permit may be filed with the
North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance, in accordance with Section 160D-1127
of the North Carolina General Statutes.
      2.   Appeal of decisions on building inspections shall be made to the
Wake County Permits and Inspections Department in accordance with their
procedures and requirements.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.5.   Certificate of Occupancy
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for the certificate of occupancy
procedure is to establish a consistent and standardized method to document a
development's compliance (or pending compliance) with all applicable building
codes and Town requirements prior to occupancy or initiation.
   B.   Applicability. Except where exempted by Section
2.2.9.C, Exemptions, no land, newly erected building or structure, or existing
building or structure that has been moved or enlarged or changed in use shall
be occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy certifying that the land,
building, or structure, and its use complies with this Ordinance and the
applicable standards of the State Building Code(s) is issued in accordance with
this section.
   C.   Exemptions. Development exempted from Section
2.2.4, Building Permit, shall also be exempted from this section.
   D.   Certificate of Occupancy Procedure. The certificate of occupancy
procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.5, Certificate of Occupancy Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.5: Certificate of Occupancy Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
   E.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on a certificate of
occupancy shall be made by the Planning Director. Decisions on certificates of
occupancy applications shall be in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.5.F, Certificate of Occupancy Review Standards.
   F.   Certificate of Occupancy Review Standards. A certificate of occupancy
shall be approved if the land, building, structure, or proposed use complies
with:
      1.   All relevant standards of this Ordinance;
      2.   Any other applicable Town requirements;
      3.   All applicable conditions of approval;
      4.   The building permit;
      5.   The applicable State Building Code(s) requirements; and
      6.   All applicable state and federal requirements.
   G.   Performance Guarantee. The Planning Director may require the applicant
to submit a performance guarantee (see Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees, in an amount necessary to ensure that any work not
completed as specified in the development permit or approval will be completed
within the specified time frame for a certificate of occupancy.
   H.   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy.
      1.   In cases where it would be unreasonable to require the applicant to
comply with all the requirements of this procedure prior to commencement of the
proposed use, transfer of lots in a subdivision, or occupancy of any buildings
(due to weather conditions or other issues beyond the applicant's control, but
not including financial hardship), the Planning Director may approve the
issuance a temporary certificate of occupancy by the Wake County Inspections
Director, provided:
         a.   The Wake County Inspections Director approves of the temporary
certificate;
         b.   The commencement or occupancy will not violate any health or
safety considerations of any applicable codes;
         c.   A performance guarantee, submitted in accordance with Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees, is provided for any required infrastructure or
other required site feature; and
         d.   The duration of the temporary certificate of occupancy shall not
exceed six months.
      2.   If all remaining work is not completed within the specified time
frame of the temporary certificate of occupancy, the Planning Director shall
take action in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement.
   I.   Expiration. A certificate of occupancy shall not expire.
   J.   Appeal.
      1.   Appeal of decisions on certificates of occupancy shall be made to
the Wake County Permits and Inspections Department in accordance with their
procedures and requirements.
      2.   An appeal pertaining to a State Building Code(s) issue shall be
filed with to the North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance in accordance with
Section 160D-1127 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.6.   Conditional Rezoning
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this section is to provide a uniform
means for amending the Official Zoning Map to establish a conditional zoning
district. In cases where the standards of a general use zoning district are
inadequate to ensure that development allowed by the district will conform to
the Town's adopted plans or to appropriately address the impacts expected to be
generated by development, a landowner may apply for a conditional rezoning. The
conditional rezoning, if approved, establishes a parallel conditional zoning
district that is equivalent to a corresponding general use zoning district,
except as modified through additional conditions restrictions that the
applicant and Town mutually agree are necessary to ensure conformance with
adopted plans and to adequately address expected development impacts.
   B.   Applicability. This procedure sets out the requirements for amendments
to the zoning district designation of land within the Town's planning
jurisdiction as well as for land coming into the Town's planning jurisdiction
via annexation in accordance with Section 160D-703 of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   C.   Procedures Distinguished. Applications filed as a conditional rezoning
application may not be converted to a map amendment application to establish a
general use zoning district during the review process, and shall instead be
withdrawn and resubmitted as a zoning map amendment application (see Section
2.2.25, Zoning Map Amendment).
   D.   Applied to Entire Site.
      1.   Applications for a conditional rezoning submitted after January 1,
2020 shall include all the land area within a recorded lot or site that is the
subject of the application.
      2.   Conditional rezoning applications may not establish bifurcated
zoning classifications where only a portion of a lot or site is subject to a
particular conditional zoning district classification.
   E.   Conditional Rezoning Procedure. The conditional rezoning procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.6: Conditional Rezoning Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
   F.   Application Submittal.
      1.   Conditional rezoning applications may only be initiated by the
landowner(s) of the land subject to the application, or their authorized
agents.
      2.   All conditions of approval proposed by the applicant must be
included with the conditional zoning application.
      3.   Conditional rezoning applications shall include a site plan or
concept plan depicting the proposed development configuration that shall be
reviewed by the TRC prior to the joint public hearing.
      4.   The application shall include a transportation impact analysis for
review, when required by Section
6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis.
   G.   Joint Public Hearing. Following provision of public notice for a public
hearing in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice, the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners shall
conduct a joint legislative public hearing on the conditional rezoning
application.
   H.   Review by Planning Board.
      1.   The Planning Board, following the close of the joint public hearing,
shall review the application and the information presented during the joint
public hearing during a follow-up public meeting, and shall make a
recommendation on the conditional rezoning application in accordance with
Section
2.2.6.K, Conditional Rezoning Review Standards.
      2.   In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall prepare a
written consistency statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the conditional rezoning application is recommended for
approval, denial, or remanded to Town staff; and
         b.   The degree to which the conditional rezoning is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the conditional rezoning is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the conditional rezoning amends or does not
amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the recommendation is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the recommendation is in the public
interest.
      3.   During its review of a conditional rezoning application, the
Planning Board may suggest revisions to the proposed conditions (including the
concept plan), consistent with the provisions of Section
2.2.6.L, Conditions of Approval. Only those revisions agreed to in writing by
the applicant shall be incorporated into the application.
   I.   Board of Commissioners Review and Decision.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of the joint public
hearing conducted with the Planning Board, and receipt of a recommendation on
the conditional rezoning application by the Planning Board, shall decide the
application during a follow-up public meeting in accordance with Section
2.2.6.K, Conditional Rezoning Review Standards.
      2.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Adoption of the conditional rezoning application as proposed;
         b.   Adoption of a revised conditional rezoning application;
         c.   Denial of the conditional rezoning application; or
         d.   Remand of the conditional rezoning application to the Planning
Board for further consideration.
      3.   In making its decision, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt a
written consistency statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the conditional rezoning application is approved, denied,
or remanded; and
         b.   The degree to which the conditional rezoning is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the conditional rezoning is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the conditional rezoning amends or does not
amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is in the public interest.
   J.   Designation on Official Zoning Map. The Planning Director shall make
changes to the Official Zoning Map promptly after approval of a conditional
rezoning application by the Board of Commissioners.
   K.   Conditional Rezoning Review Standards. The advisability of an amendment
to the Official Zoning Map is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the Board of Commissioners and is not controlled by any one factor. In
determining whether to adopt or deny a proposed conditional rezoning, the Board
of Commissioners may weigh the relevance of and consider the following:
      1.   Whether the proposed conditional rezoning advances the public
health, safety, or welfare;
      2.   Whether and the extent to which the proposed conditional rezoning is
appropriate for its proposed location, and is consistent with the purposes,
goals, objectives, and policies of the town's adopted policy guidance;
      3.   Whether an approval of the conditional rezoning is reasonable and in
the public interest;
      4.   Whether and the extent to which the concept plan associated with the
conditional rezoning is consistent with this Ordinance; and
      5.   Any other factors as the Board of Commissioners may determine to be
relevant.
   L.   Conditions of Approval.
      1.   Only conditions mutually agreed to by the owner(s) of the property
that is the subject of a conditional zoning district designation and the Board
of Commissioners may be approved as part of a conditional rezoning application
establishing a conditional zoning district.
      2.   Conditions shall be limited to those that address conformance of
development and use of the site with Town regulations and adopted plans and
that address the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development
or use of the site.
      3.   Conditions shall be in writing and may be supplemented with text or
plans and maps.
      4.   Unless subject to an approved condition, all requirements of a
corresponding general zoning district shall apply to a conditional zoning
district.
      5.   No condition shall be made part of the application which:
         a.   Is less restrictive than any applicable overlay zoning district
standard;
         b.   Specifies the ownership status, race, religion, or other
characteristics of the occupants of housing units;
         c.   Establishes a minimum size of a dwelling unit;
         d.   Establishes a minimum value of buildings or improvements;
         e.   Excludes residents based upon race, religion, or income; or
         f.   Obligates the Town to perform in any manner relative to the
approval of the conditional rezoning or development of the land.
   M.   Effect.
      1.   Lands subject to an conditional rezoning shall be subject to all the
standards, conditions, and plans approved as part of that application. These
standards, plans, and approved conditions are perpetually binding on the land
as an amendment to this Ordinance and the Official Zoning Map, and may only be
changed in accordance with the procedures established in this Ordinance.
      2.   Development located outside the Town of Zebulon's corporate limits
shall comply with all Town policies related to annexation and the extension of
utilities.
   N.   Amendment. Amendments to an approved conditional rezoning application
may only be considered in accordance with the following:
      1.   Minor Changes.
         a.   Subsequent plans and permits for development within a conditional
rezoning district may include minor changes. Minor changes are limited to
changes that have no material effect on the character of the proposed
development or changes that address technical considerations that could not
reasonably be anticipated at the time of the conditional rezoning approval.
         b.   The following minor changes may be approved by the Planning
Director, in consultation with other appropriate Town staff:
            i.   Changes to the location of entrances or driveways, the
rearrangement of internal streets, turn lanes, drives, or access restrictions;
            ii.   Changes to the configuration of parking areas, but not the
number of parking spaces;
            iii.   Changes to the configuration or location of open space or
placement of required amenities, provided the amount of open space (whether
passive or active) is unchanged;
            iv.   Changes to the configuration of landscape yards, including
types of materials, provided minimum width and planting requirements are met;
            v.   Changes to proposed building elevations or facades, including
materials, provided that the change retains the same general architectural
character and provided the development still complies with the applicable
design requirements; and
            vi.   Changes to the arrangement or location of buildings provided
there is no increase in the number of buildings, size, or amount of impervious
surface.
      2.   Significant Changes Considered Amendments.
         a.   Changes that materially affect the basic character or
configuration of the proposed development or that exceed the scope of a minor
change are considered amendments. Amendments include, but are not limited to:
            i.   Changes in use designations;
            ii.   Density/intensity increases;
            iii.   Decreases in open space;
            iv.   Substantial changes in the location of streets (particularly
if streets are to be deleted or access points to the development moved so
traffic flows both inside and outside the development are affected); and
            v.   Change in the location of any public easement.
         b.   Amendments shall be reviewed and considered in accordance with
the procedures and standards established for the original approval of a
conditional rezoning application.
   O.   Appeal.
      1.   Any decision by the Board of Commissioners shall be subject to
review by the Superior Court of Wake County.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.7.   Construction Drawing
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for the Construction Drawing procedure
is to establish a consistent and predictable process for the review of proposed
development, through a detailed representation of the proposal. Construction
Drawing review is an analysis to ensure that allowable development is
configured in accordance with required utilities and constructions standards,
not a consideration of whether or not a proposed development is allowed.
Figure 2.2.7: Construction Drawing Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1945.png]
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Except for development exempted from Construction Drawing review in
accordance with Section
2.2.9.C, Exemptions, all forms of development that involve construction,
moving, or significant alteration of a building or habitable structure, that
result in the increase in the amount of impervious surface on a lot, or that
involve the provision of landscaping, off-street parking, stormwater management
devices, or similar site features shall be subject to Construction Drawing
review in accordance with this section.
      2.   Changes in use that trigger requirements for sidewalk provision or
changes to roadway configuration shall also require site plan approval.
   C.   Exemptions. The following forms of development are exempted from
construction drawing review, but shall require a plot plan and shall be subject
to the standards in Section
2.2.4, Building Permit, or Section
2.2.24, Zoning Compliance Permit, as appropriate:
      1.   Construction of a single-family detached dwelling on an individual
lot;
      2.   Establishment of an accessory use or structure; and
      3.   Changes of use that do not result in the need for additional off-
street parking spaces, additional screening, differing stormwater practices, or
additional landscaping.
   D.   Construction Drawing Procedure. The Construction Drawing procedure is
described in Figure 2.2.7, Construction Drawing Procedure, as supplemented by
Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
   E.   Application. The application shall include details sheets and to scale
engineered plans.
   F.   Decision by Technical Review Committee. The Technical Review Committee
shall review and decide the application in accordance with Section
2.2.7.G, Construction Drawing Review Standards.
   G.   Construction Drawing Review Standards. A Construction Drawing shall be
approved on a decision the application complies with:
      1.   All standards or conditions of any prior applicable permits and
development approvals;
      2.   All applicable requirements of this Ordinance and the Town Code of
Ordinances; and
      3.   All applicable county, state, and federal requirements.
   H.   Effect.
      1.   Construction Plans.
         a.   Construction Drawing plans for all public improvements included
with or filed subsequent to the Non-Residential Site Plan or Residential
Preliminary Plan shall be approved prior to street and utility construction in
accordance with the applicable Town standards.
         b.   In the case of a multi-phase site plan, any street and utility
construction plans shall include all improvements within a phase and all public
improvements outside the phase but necessary to serve development within that
phase.
      2.   Performance Guarantees. All public improvements that have not been
installed by the developer, inspected, and accepted by the Town shall comply
with the requirements in Section 6.6, Performance Guarantees, prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   I.   Amendment. Amendment of a Construction Drawing may only be reviewed and
considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
   J.   Expiration. If the work authorized by a Construction Drawing approval
is not commenced within one year from the date of issuance, the approval shall
become null and void.
   K.   Appeal. Appeal of the decision on a site plan shall be reviewed and
decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 9-11-2023)
2.2.8.   Development Agreement
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for the development agreement procedure
is to establish a flexible process for the establishment and review of large-
scale development projects likely to build out over several years. This
procedure is intended to:
      1.   Provide more regulatory certainty for applicants;
      2.   Establish a schedule for development to allow the Town to plan
accordingly;
      3.   Coordinate the provision of public facilities;
      4.   Allow for vesting periods that exceed those in the General Statutes
or in Section
2.2.23, Vested Rights Determination; and
      5.   Improve management of environmentally-sensitive lands.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   At the request of an applicant, the Board of Commissioners may enter
into a development agreement with a developer for a development of any size and
for any duration, provided the duration is specified in the agreement.
      2.   All development agreements shall be subject to Sections 160D-1001 -
160D-1012 of the North Carolina General Statutes, and the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Development Agreement Procedure. The development agreement procedure is
described in Figure 2.2.8, Development Agreement Procedure, as supplemented by
Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.8: Development Agreement Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1949.png]
   D.   Review and Decision by Board of Commissioners.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of a legislative
public hearing, shall review and decide the application in accordance with
Section 2.2.8.E, Development Agreement Review Standards. The decision shall be
the one of the following:
         a.   Enter into the development agreement, as submitted;
         b.   Enter into the development agreement, subject to changes agreed
to in writing by the developer; or
         c.   Not enter into the development agreement.
      2.   Approval of a development agreement shall be by ordinance.
   E.   Development Agreement Review Standards. For the Town to participate in
a development agreement, a development subject to the agreement must:
      1.   Comply with the requirements in Section 160D-1001 through Section
160D-1012 of the North Carolina General Statutes;
      2.   Indicate the proposed phasing; and
      3.   Demonstrate the impact on existing and future provisions of capital
improvements by the Town, including at least one of the following:
transportation, potable water, sanitary sewer, solid waste, stormwater
management, educational, parks and recreation, and health systems and
facilities.
   F.   Recordation. Within 14 days after entering into a development
agreement, the applicant shall record the agreement in the office of the Wake
County Register of Deeds.
   G.   Annual Review. During any period of time in which a permit or
development approval subject to a development agreement is active, the Planning
Director shall review the development at least once every year for compliance
with the agreement and file a report with the Board of Commissioners.
   H.   Amendment.
      1.   Mutual Consent. A development agreement may be amended or canceled
by mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or by their successors in
interest.
      2.   Material Changes are Amendments. Consideration of a proposed
material change of a development agreement beyond the scope of a minor change
shall be reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and
standards established for the original approval of a development agreement.
   I.   Expiration. A development agreement shall run for the duration of its
term unless the agreement is terminated.
   J.   Appeal.
      1.   A decision by the Board of Commissioners on a development agreement
shall be subject to review by the Wake County Superior Court.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.9.   Exempt Subdivision
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this exempt subdivision procedure
is to establish a clear and predictable procedure for a landowner to determine
and document that a proposed division of land is exempted from the subdivision
requirements of this Ordinance in accordance with Section 160D-802 of the North
Carolina General Statutes. Exempt subdivision reviews are provided as a
courtesy, and may not be mandated by the Town.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The following forms of land division are exempt subdivisions that
are exempted from the subdivision requirements of this Ordinance (but remain
subject to other applicable provisions of this Ordinance, such as flood hazard
reduction requirements):
         a.   A combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots that does not increase the total number of lots,
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this Ordinance;
         b.   The division of land into parcels, each greater than ten acres in
area, where no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         c.   Public acquisition involving the purchase of strips of land for
the widening or opening of streets;
         d.   Division of a tract of land in single ownership, where the total
area of all land in the land division is no greater than two acres, the
division creates no more than three lots, where no street right-of-way
dedication is involved, and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of this Ordinance; or
         e.   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with Chapter 29 of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
      2.   Divisions of land that are not consistent with these criteria shall
not be considered exempt subdivisions, and shall be subject to the applicable
review procedure and subdivision requirements of this Ordinance.
   C.   Exempt Subdivision Courtesy Review Procedure. The exempt subdivision
courtesy review procedure is described in Figure 2.2.9, Exempt Subdivision
Courtesy Review Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.9: Exempt Subdivision Courtesy Review Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1947.png]
   D.   Certification by Planning Director. The certification of an exempt
subdivision shall be made by the Planning Director in accordance with the
standards in Section 2.2.9.E, Exempt Subdivision Review Standards.
   E.   Exempt Subdivision Review Standards. A division of land shall be
certified as an exempt subdivision if it:
      1.   Is excluded from the definition of a subdivision in accordance with
Section 160D-802 of the North Carolina General Statutes;
      2.   Complies with all applicable standards in
Article 3: Districts;
      3.   Complies with all standards or conditions of any applicable permits
and development approvals; and
      4.   Complies with all other applicable requirements in the Town Code of
Ordinances.
   F.   Recordation. If an exempt subdivision plat or other document is
prepared by the applicant, it shall be certified by the Planning Director. An
exempt subdivision plat may be recorded in the office of the Wake County
Register of Deeds, by a landowner at the landowner's discretion.
   G.   Effect.
      1.   A division of land determined to be an exempt subdivision shall be
exempted from the subdivision standards of this Ordinance, but development of
land within an exempt subdivision shall remain subject to the requirements of
the Wake County Environmental Services Department.
      2.   In the event a division of land does not qualify as an exempt
subdivision, it shall be reviewed in accordance with the applicable subdivision
procedure and shall be subject to all applicable subdivision standards in this
Ordinance.
      3.   Divisions of land determined to be exempt subdivisions shall not be
further divided into more than one additional lot (plus the residual parcel)
within five years from the date of the exempt subdivision determination, or the
subdivision shall be processed as a expedited subdivision or preliminary plat,
as appropriate.
   H.   Amendment. An exempt subdivision certification shall not be amended.
   I.   Expiration. An exempt subdivision certification shall not expire.
   J.   Appeal. Appeal of exempt subdivision certification shall be reviewed
and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance with
Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.10.   Expedited Subdivision
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this expedited subdivision review
procedure is to allow certain land divisions to be reviewed via an expedited
review procedure based on their small size and limited likelihood to create
significant impacts on surrounding lands.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The standards in this section shall apply to divisions of land
meeting all the following criteria:
         a.   The proposed division of land is not exempted from the
subdivision standards of this Ordinance in accordance with Section
2.2.9, Exempt Subdivision;
         b.   The proposed division will not result in more than three lots
(including any residual or "parent" parcel);
         c.   The area of land subject to the division shall be comprised of at
least five acres under common ownership;
         d.   No land included in an expedited subdivision application shall
have been the subject of an expedited subdivision application approval within
the preceding ten years; and
         e.   No extension of public streets, public water distribution line,
public sewer distribution line, or other public utility is proposed.
      2.   Divisions of land that are not consistent with these criteria shall
not be considered expedited subdivisions, and shall be subject to the
applicable review procedure and subdivision requirements of this Ordinance.
      3.   Expedited subdivisions are not exempted from applicable zoning
district dimensional requirements.
   C.   Expedited Subdivision Review Procedure. The expedited subdivision
procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.10, Expedited Subdivision Review Procedure, as supplemented by
Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.10: Expedited Subdivision Review Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1943.png]
   D.   Application Submittal. Applications for an expedited subdivision shall
be prepared by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer licensed to
practice in North Carolina.
   E.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on an expedited subdivision
shall be made by the Planning Director in accordance with the standards in
Section
2.2.10.F, Expedited Subdivision Review Standards.
   F.   Expedited Subdivision Review Standards.
      1.   An expedited subdivision shall be approved if the application
complies with the following:
         a.   The expedited subdivision plat is on a sheet or sheets suitable
for recording with the Wake County Register of Deeds;
         b.   The expedited subdivision plat is prepared and sealed by a
licensed professional land surveyor or licensed professional engineer;
         c.   The expedited subdivision plat complies with all applicable
standards in this Ordinance and Section 47-30 of the North Carolina General
Statutes;
         d.   The expedited subdivision plat includes all required
certifications;
         e.   The applicant has secured all required state and federal permit
approvals;
         f.   The lots in the subdivision have been approved the by Wake County
Environmental Services Department;
         g.   All lots in the expedited subdivision comply with the applicable
dimensional requirements for the zoning district where located; and
         h.   No land included in an expedited subdivision application shall
have been the subject of an expedited subdivision application approval within
the preceding ten years.
      2.   Expedited subdivisions of land located within a special flood hazard
area shall comply with the standards in Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, and any recorded plats shall
include the following statement: "Use of land within a floodplain or flood
hazard overlay is substantially restricted by the Town of Zebulon."
   G.   Recordation.
      1.   Once an expedited subdivision is approved, a signed statement of the
approval shall be entered on the face of the plat by the Planning Director. The
expedited subdivision plat may not be recorded without this certification.
Failure to record the expedited subdivision plat in accordance with Section
2.2.10.J, Expiration, shall render the expedited subdivision plat null and
void.
      2.   Land may not be conveyed or construction started until the expedited
subdivision is recorded.
      3.   A copy of the recorded plat shall be filed with the Planning
Director within five business days of recording or the final plat shall be null
and void.
   H.   Effect.
      1.   Building permits may be issued following recordation of the
expedited subdivision plat.
      2.   Land subject to an expedited subdivision approval shall not be
further subdivided as an expedited subdivision within ten years of the date of
the prior expedited subdivision approval.
   I.   Amendment. Amendment of an expedited subdivision approval may only be
reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   J.   Expiration. An expedited subdivision plat shall be null and void unless
it is recorded in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds within 30
days of approval.
   K.   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on an expedited subdivision shall be
reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance
with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.11.   Final Plat
   A.   Purpose and Intent.
      1.   The purpose for this final plat procedure is to ensure proposed
subdivisions of land have been completed in substantial conformity with a
preliminary plat (as applicable) as well as the applicable regulations of this
Ordinance prior to the conveyance of lots. These standards are intended to
ensure preparation and recordation of a map (plat) of sufficient detail to
readily determine and accurately reproduce the location, bearing, radius (as
applicable) and length of each of the following elements of a subdivision:
         a.   Every street or private accessway;
         b.   Lot lines;
         c.   Easement boundaries;
         d.   Lands or resources dedicated or reserved for use by the general
public;
         e.   Land or resources owned in common by land owners of the
subdivision;
         f.   Unbuildable resource or conservation lands;
         g.   Addresses;
         h.   Street names;
         i.   Stormwater management infrastructure; and
         j.   Sidewalks and greenways.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   A final plat shall be required for any development subject to a
preliminary plat (see Section
2.2.17, Residential Preliminary Plan).
      2.   An applicant with an approved preliminary plat shall not file an
application for final plat review until all required improvements serving the
subdivision are installed and inspected by the Town, or the developer provides
a performance guarantee for those required improvements in accordance with
Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees.
   C.   Final Plat Review Procedure. The final plat procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.11, Final Plat Review Procedure, as supplemented by Section 2.3,
Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.11: Final Plat Review Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1941.png]
   D.   Final Plat Review Standards. A final plat shall be approved if the
application complies with the following:
      1.   The final plat is on a sheet or sheets suitable for recording with
the Wake County Register of Deeds;
      2.   The final plat is prepared and sealed by a licensed professional
land surveyor or licensed professional engineer;
      3.   The final plat complies with the standards in Section 47-30 of the
North Carolina General Statutes;
      4.   The final plat includes all applicable certifications identified in
the Procedures Manual;
      5.   All lots have been certified by Wake County Environmental Resources
as capable of accommodating the wastewater generated from the proposed use, in
cases when the lot(s) is not served by a centralized wastewater system;
      6.   The applicant has secured all required state, federal, and other
applicable permit approvals;
      7.   The final plat is in substantial conformance with the preliminary
plat;
      8.   All required improvements depicted on the preliminary plat and final
plat are installed, inspected, and accepted by the Town, or are subject to a
performance guarantee (see Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees);
      9.   The final plat complies with all standards and conditions of any
applicable permits and development approvals; and
      10.   The final plat complies with all other applicable requirements in
this Ordinance and the Town Code of Ordinances.
      11.   Final plats of land located within a special flood hazard area
shall comply with the standards in Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, and any recorded plats shall
include the following statement: "Use of land within a floodplain or flood
hazard overlay is substantially restricted by the Town of Zebulon."
   E.   Recordation.
      1.   Once a final plat is approved, a signed statement of the approval
shall be entered on the face of the plat by the Planning Director. The final
plat may not be recorded without this certification.
      2.   Failure to record the final plat in accordance with Section
2.2.10.H, Expiration, shall render the final plat null and void.
      3.   A copy of the recorded final plat shall be filed with the Planning
Director within five business days of recording or the final plat shall be null
and void.
   F.   Effect.
      1.   General.
         a.   Approval of a final plat allows the sale or conveyance of lots
within the subdivision.
         b.   Building permits may be issued following recordation of the final
plat.
         c.   There is no requirement that all land subject to a preliminary
plat be included within a single final plat.
      2.   Acceptance of Public Infrastructure.
         a.   Approval and recordation of a final plat constitutes dedication
by the owner of the public of the right-of-way of each public street, or alley,
shown on the plat.
         b.   Approval of the final plat does not constitute acceptance for
maintenance responsibility of any improvements within a right-of-way or
easement and the Town assumes no responsibility to open, operate, repair, or
maintain any improvements until it is in the public interest to do so.
         c.   Improvements within right-of-ways or easements, such as streets,
drainage facilities, or sidewalks may be accepted for maintenance by the Town,
when deemed appropriate, in the Town's sole discretion.
         d.   The subdivider shall retain responsibility for public
improvements until maintenance responsibility is accepted by the Town, NCDOT,
or a public utility provider, as appropriate.
   G.   Amendment. Amendment of a final plat may only be reviewed and
considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
   H.   Expiration.
      1.   A final plat shall be null and void unless it is recorded in the
office of the Wake County Register of Deeds within 60 days of approval.
      2.   If a final plat is not recorded within two years of an associated
preliminary plat approval then the preliminary plat shall expire.
      3.   An expired preliminary plat may be resubmitted in accordance with
Section
2.2.17, Residential Preliminary Plan, and shall be reviewed in accordance with
the standards of this Ordinance.
      4.   A recorded final plat shall not expire.
   I.   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on a final plat shall be reviewed and
decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.12.   Floodplain Development Permit
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this floodplain development permit
procedure is to establish a development review procedure for development within
a special flood hazard area in order to reduce the potential for damage to
land, development, and loss of life from flooding or floodwaters in areas
subject to periodic inundation.
   B.   Applicability.
         a.   Development proposed within the Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO)
district or on land in a special flood hazard area as defined by the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) shall obtain a floodplain development permit in
accordance with this section prior to or concurrent with an application for a
site plan or building permit, as appropriate.
         b.   Development that is proximate to and may be impacted by unmapped
streams or where regulatory flood elevations are not delineated in the NFIP, in
accordance with Section
3.8.2.D.3, Standards for Floodplains without Established Base Flood Elevations,
shall also obtain a floodplain development permit in accordance with these
standard.
   C.   Floodplain Development Permit Procedure. The floodplain development
permit procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.12, Floodplain Development Permit Procedure, as supplemented by
Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.12: Floodplain Development Permit Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1939.png]
   D.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on a floodplain development
permit shall be made by the Planning Director based on the standards in Section
2.2.12.E, Floodplain Development Review Standards.
   E.   Floodplain Development Review Standards. A floodplain development
permit shall be approved if it complies with the following:
      1.   The permit is issued prior to the commencement of development; and
      2.   The development complies with all applicable standards in Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District.
   F.   Effect. Approval of a floodplain development permit authorizes an
applicant to obtain all required elevation certificates or other required
certificates and proceed with development following issuance of a building
permit.
   G.   Elevation Certificates.
      1.   Unless exempted in accordance with Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, development subject to this section
shall also file elevation or floodproofing certificates in accordance with
Section
3.8.2.C.2, Development Application, Permit and Certification Requirements, no
more than 21 days after completing the lowest habitable floor.
      2.   The Planning Director shall review the certificate and advise the
applicant of any errors or deficiencies, which shall be corrected prior to any
further work progressing. Failure to correct errors or deficiencies on an
elevation or floodproofing certificate shall be a violation of this Ordinance
subject to the provisions in Section
8.8.4, Stop Work Orders.
   H.   Amendment. Amendment of a floodplain development permit approval may
only be reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   I.   Revocation. A floodplain development permit may be revoked by the
Planning Director, following written notice to the violator, for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Failure or refusal to comply with all applicable state laws or flood
damage prevention requirements of this Ordinance;
      2.   Conduct of development activities that represent a substantial
departure from an approved permit, plan, or specification; and
      3.   False or misrepresented information providing as part of the
application.
   J.   Expiration. A floodplain development permit shall expire and become
null and void if the development it authorizes is not commenced within one year
of permit issuance or if activity associated with the permit becomes inactive
for a period of one year or longer.
   K.   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on a floodplain development permit shall
be reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in
accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.13.   Interpretation
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this interpretation procedure is to
provide a process where an applicant may request documentation from the
Planning Director regarding the meaning of language in this Ordinance, unlisted
use types, boundaries on the Official Zoning Map, or conditions applied to an
approval.
   B.   Applicability. The Planning Director is responsible for written
interpretations of the following:
      1.   The meaning of the text in this Ordinance;
      2.   The location and extent of zoning district boundaries on the
Official Zoning Map, including boundaries associated with the Flood Hazard
Overlay (FHO) district;
      3.   Interpretations of whether an unlisted use is comparable to a use
listed in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table;
      4.   Definitions of undefined terms;
      5.   Compliance with conditions of approval; and
      6.   Other aspects of this Ordinance.
   C.   Interpretations Distinguished.
      1.   Only interpretations issued in accordance with this procedure are
subject to appeal as an administrative decision.
      2.   Any written or oral interpretations that do not meet the strict
requirements of this section are advisory interpretations.
      3.   Advisory interpretations have no binding effect and are not
considered administrative decisions subject to appeal.
   D.   Interpretation Procedure. The interpretation procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.13, Interpretation Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.13: Interpretation Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1937.png]
   E.   Interpretation Review Standards.
      1.   Official Zoning Map Boundaries. Interpretation of district
boundaries on the Official Zoning Map shall be in accordance with the standards
in Section 3.2.3, Interpretation of Official Zoning Map Boundaries, and
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance.
      2.   Unlisted Uses. Interpretation of whether an unlisted use is similar
to a use identified in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, shall be based on consistency with the Town's
adopted policy guidance and the following standards:
         a.   The function, product, or physical characteristics of the use;
         b.   The impact on adjacent lands created by the use;
         c.   The type, size, and nature of buildings and structures associated
with the use;
         d.   The type of sales (retail, wholesale), and the size and type of
items sold and displayed on the premises;
         e.   The types of items stored (such as vehicles, inventory,
merchandise, chemicals, construction materials, scrap and junk, and raw
materials including liquids and powders);
         f.   The volume and type of vehicle traffic generated by the use, and
the parking demands of the use;
         g.   Any processing associated with the use, including assembly,
manufacturing, warehousing, shipping, distribution, and whether it occurs
inside or outside a building;
         h.   Any dangerous, hazardous, toxic, or explosive materials
associated with the use;
         i.   The amount and nature of any nuisances generated on the premises,
including noise, smoke, odor, glare, vibration, radiation, and fumes; and
         j.   Any prior applicable interpretations made by the Planning
Director or decisions made by the BOA.
      3.   Undefined Term. If a term in this Ordinance is undefined or the
meaning is unclear, the Planning Director may interpret the term based upon
appropriate definitions in any of the following sources:
         a.   Planning-related definitions in publications prepared or offered
by the American Planning Association or the Urban Land Institute;
         b.   The Oxford Dictionary of Construction, Surveying, and Civil
Engineering;
         c.   The North Carolina General Statutes;
         d.   The North Carolina Administrative Code;
         e.   The State Building Code(s);
         f.   Black's Law Dictionary; or
         g.   Other professionally-accepted source.
      4.   Text Provisions and Prior Approvals. Interpretation of this text and
approved applications shall be based on the standards in Section
9.1, Rules of Language Construction, and the following considerations:
         a.   When the legislative intent of a provision is unclear, the
Planning Director shall consider the clear and plain meaning of the provision's
wording, as defined by the meaning and significance given specific terms used
in the provision, as established in Section
9.4, Definitions, and by the common and accepted usage of the term;
         b.   The intended purpose of the provision, as indicated by purpose
statements, its context and consistency with surrounding and related
provisions, and any legislative history related to its adoption;
         c.   The general purposes served by this Ordinance, as set forth in
Section
1.4, Purpose and Intent; and
         d.   Consistency with the Town's adopted policy guidance.
      5.   Effect.
         a.   General.
            i.   A written interpretation shall be binding on subsequent
decisions by the Planning Director or other administrative officials in
applying the same provision of this Ordinance or the Official Zoning Map in the
same circumstance, unless the interpretation is modified in accordance with
this section, the interpretation is later determined to have been made in
error, or the text of this Ordinance is amended.
            ii.   The Planning Director shall maintain a record of written
interpretations that shall be available in the Planning Department for public
inspection, on reasonable request, during normal business hours.
         b.   Approval of Unlisted Use.
            i.   After the Planning Director determines the use category or use
type in which the unlisted use is best classified, then the unlisted use shall
be subject to all applicable requirements of that use category or use type.
            ii.   After making an interpretation of an unlisted use, the
Planning Director shall determine whether the unlisted use is likely to be
common or recur frequently, and whether its omission is likely to lead to
uncertainty and confusion. On determining that the unlisted use is likely to be
common and would lead to confusion if unlisted, the Planning Director shall
initiate an application for an amendment to the text of this Ordinance. Until
final action is taken on the text amendment, the Planning Director's decision
shall be binding.
            iii.   If after making an interpretation of an unlisted use, the
Planning Director determines that the unlisted use is of an unusual or
transitory nature, and unlikely to recur frequently, the determination shall be
binding without further action or amendment of this Ordinance.
      6.   Appeal. Appeal of an interpretation by the Planning Director shall
be reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in
accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.14.   Non-Residential Site Plan
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for the Non-Residential Site Plan
procedure is to establish a consistent and predictable process for the review
of proposed non-residential development, through a graphical representation of
the proposal. Non-Residential Site Plan review is an analysis to ensure that
allowable development is configured in accordance with the standards in this
Ordinance, not a consideration of whether or not a proposed development is
allowed.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Except for development exempted from Non-Residential Site Plan
review in accordance with Section 2.2.9.C, Exemptions, all forms of commercial
development that involve construction, moving, or significant alteration of a
building or habitable structure, that result in the increase in the amount of
impervious surface on a lot, or that involve the provision of landscaping, off-
street parking, stormwater management devices, or similar site features shall
be subject to Commercial Site Plan review in accordance with this section.
      2.   Changes in use that trigger requirements for sidewalk provision or
changes to roadway configuration shall also require site plan approval.
   C.   Exemptions. The following forms of development are exempted from site
plan review, but shall require a plot plan and shall be subject to the
standards in Section 2.2.4, Building Permit, or Section 2.2.24, Zoning
Compliance Permit, as appropriate:
         1.   Construction of a single-family detached dwelling on an
individual lot;
Figure 2.2.14: Non-Residential Site Plan Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1935.png]
         2.   Establishment of an accessory use or structure; and
         3.   Changes of use that do not result in the need for additional off-
street parking spaces, additional screening, differing stormwater practices, or
additional landscaping.
   D.   Non-Residential Site Plan Procedure. The site plan procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.14, Site Plan Procedure, as supplemented by Section 2.3, Application
Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
   E.   Application. The application shall include a transportation impact
analysis for review, when required by Section 6.13, Transportation Impact
Analysis.
   F.   Decision by Technical Review Committee. The Technical Review Committee
shall review and decide the application in accordance with Section 2.2.14.G,
Site Plan Review Standards.
   G.   Site Plan Review Standards. A site plan shall be approved on a decision
the application complies with:
      1.   All standards or conditions of any prior applicable permits and
development approvals;
      2.   All applicable requirements of this Ordinance and the Town Code of
Ordinances; and
      3.   All applicable county, state, and federal requirements.
   H.   Effect.
      1.   Approval of a non-residential site plan authorizes the submittal of
construction drawings. Construction drawings shall be required in cases where
public infrastructure (e.g., streets, waterlines, sanitary, streets,
waterlines, sanitary sewer, etc.) is extended to serve the development.
   I.   Amendment. Amendment of a site plan may only be reviewed and considered
in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original
approval.
   J.   Expiration. If a construction drawing is not submitted within one year
from the date of issuance, the approval shall become null and void.
   K.   Appeal. Appeal of the decision on a site plan shall be reviewed and
decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 9-11-2023)
2.2.15.   Planned Development
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this planned development procedure
is to provide a uniform means for amending the Official Zoning Map to establish
a Planned Development (PD) zoning district. The planned development district
creates opportunities for master planned development that is developed under
unified control in accordance with more flexible standards and procedures that
are conducive to creating high quality, mixed-use, pedestrian-oriented
development that makes efficient use of land while protecting natural
resources. It is the intent of these standards to allow an applicant to propose
a wide variety of allowable uses and the flexible application of some of the
development standards in
Article 5: Development Standards, in return for a higher quality of development
with more amenities than might otherwise result from a strict application of
the standards in this Ordinance.
   B.   Applicability. The standards in this section may be applied to any land
except land in the Residential Watershed (R1) district.
   C.   Planned Development Procedure. The planned development procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.15, Planned Development Procedure, as supplemented by Section 2.3,
Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.15: Planned Development: Planned Development Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1933.png]
   D.   Application.
      1.   The application shall include a master plan depicting the general
configuration and relationship of the principal elements of the proposed
development, including uses, general building types, density/intensity,
resource protection, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, open space, public
facilities, and phasing. The TRC shall review and comment on the master plan
prior to the joint public hearing.
      2.   The application shall also include a statement of terms and
conditions document that identifies how the proposed development will meet or
exceed the standards in Section
3.5.5, Planned Development (PD) District, how any required environmental
mitigation will take place, and outline how public facilities will be provided
to serve the planned development.
      3.   To ensure unified control, the application shall also include a copy
of the title to all land that is part of the proposed planned development
zoning district classification.
      4.   The application shall include a transportation impact analysis for
review, when required by Section
6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis.
   E.   Joint Public Hearing. Following provision of public notice for a public
hearing in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice, the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners shall
conduct a joint legislative public hearing on the planned development
application.
   F.   Review by Planning Board.
      1.   The Planning Board, following the close of the joint public hearing,
shall review the application and the information presented during the joint
public hearing during a follow-up public meeting, shall make a recommendation
on the planned development application in accordance with Section
2.2.15.H, Planned Development Review Standards.
      2.   In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall prepare a
written consistency statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the planned development application is recommended for
approval, denial, or remanded to Town staff; and
         b.   The degree to which the planned development is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the planned development is or is not consistent
with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the planned development amends or does not
amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the recommendation is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the recommendation is in the public
interest.
      3.   During its review of a planned development application, the Planning
Board may suggest revisions to the master plan or terms and conditions
statement, consistent with the provisions of Section
2.2.15.I, Conditions of Approval. Only those revisions agreed to in writing by
the applicant shall be incorporated into the application.
   G.   Review and Decision by Board of Commissioners.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of the joint public
hearing conducted with the Planning Board, and receipt of a recommendation on
the planned development application by the Planning Board, shall decide the
application during a follow-up public meeting in accordance with Section
2.2.15.H, Planned Development Review Standards.
      2.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Approval of the planned development subject to the master plan
and statement of terms and conditions in the application;
         b.   Approval of the planned development subject to additional or
revised conditions related to the master plan or statement of terms and
conditions;
         c.   Denial of the planned development; or
         d.   Remand of the planned development application back to the
Planning Board for further consideration.
      3.   In making its decision, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt a
written statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the planned development application (and associated
zoning map amendment) is approved, denied, or remanded; and
         b.   The degree to which the planned development application (and
associated zoning map amendment) is or is not consistent with the Town's
adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the planned development application (and
associated zoning map amendment) is or is not consistent with the Town's
adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the planned development application also
amends or does not amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is in the public interest.
   H.   Planned Development Review Standards. The advisability of amending the
Official Zoning Map to establish a planned development district is a matter
committed to the legislative discretion of the Board of Commissioners and is
not controlled by any one factor. In determining whether to adopt or deny a
planned development application, the Board of Commissioners may consider the
standards in Section 2.2.25.J, Zoning Map Amendment Review Standards, and the
standards for the district in Section
3.5.5, Planned Development (PD) District.
   I.   Conditions of Approval.
      1.   Only conditions mutually agreed to by the owner(s) of the property
that is the subject of a planned development application and the Board of
Commissioners may be approved as part of a planned development application
establishing a planned development district.
      2.   Conditions shall be limited to those that address conformance of
development and use of the site with Town regulations and adopted plans and
that address the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development
or use of the site.
      3.   Conditions shall be in writing and may be supplemented with text or
plans and maps.
      4.   No condition shall be made part of the application which:
         a.   Specifies the ownership status, race, religion, or other
characteristics of the occupants of housing units;
         b.   Establishes a minimum size of a dwelling unit;
         c.   Establishes a minimum value of buildings or improvements;
         d.   Excludes residents based upon race, religion, or income; or
         e.   Obligates the Town to perform in any manner relative to the
approval of the planned development district or development of the land.
   J.   Designation on the Official Zoning Map. Designation of a PD zoning
district on the Official Zoning Map shall note the ordinance number approving
the PD zoning classification.
   K.   Effect.
      1.   Lands rezoned to a PD district shall be subject to the approved
master plan and the approved statement of terms and conditions.
      2.   The master plan and terms and conditions are binding on the land as
an amendment to the Official Zoning Map.
      3.   The applicant may apply for and obtain subsequent development
permits and approvals necessary to implement the master plan in accordance with
the appropriate procedures and standards set forth in this Ordinance.
      4.   Any permits or approvals shall comply with the master plan and the
statement of terms and conditions.
      5.   Only those portions of the development subject to an approved master
plan and statement of terms and conditions shall be included in development
activities.
   L.   Amendment.
      1.   Minor Changes.
         a.   Subsequent plans and permits for development within a planned
development district may include minor changes to the approved master plan map
or statement of terms and conditions, provided the development continues to
meet the minimum requirements of this Ordinance. Minor changes are limited to
changes that have no material effect on the character of the planned
development or changes that address technical considerations that could not
reasonably be anticipated at the time of the planned development approval.
         b.   The following minor changes may be approved by the Planning
Director, in consultation with other appropriate own staff:
            i.   Changes to the location of entrances or driveways, the
rearrangement of internal streets, turn lanes, drives, or access restrictions;
            ii.   Changes to the configuration of parking areas, but not the
number of parking spaces;
            iii.   Changes to the configuration or location of open space or
placement of required amenities, provided the amount of open space (whether
passive or active) is unchanged;
            iv.   Changes to the configuration of landscape yards, including
types of materials, provided minimum width and planting requirements are met;
            v.   Changes to the proposed building elevation or facade,
including materials, provided that the change retains the same general
architectural character and remains consistent with the design parameters
established in the PD approval; and
            vi.   Changes to the arrangement or location of buildings provided
there is no increase in the number of buildings, size, or amount of impervious
surface.
      2.   Significant Changes Considered Amendments.
         a.   Changes that materially affect the basic concept of the planned
development master plan map or basic parameters establishing the terms and
conditions or that exceed the scope of a minor change are considered
amendments. Amendments include, but are not limited to:
            i.   Changes in use designations;
            ii.   Density/intensity increases;
            iii.   Decreases in open space;
            iv.   Substantial changes in the location of streets (particularly
if streets are to be deleted or access points to the development moved so
traffic flows both inside and outside the development are affected); and
            v.   Change in the location of any public easement.
         b.   Amendments shall be reviewed and considered in accordance with
the procedures and standards established for the original approval of a planned
development application.
   M.   Expiration.
      1.   If no application for approval of a preliminary plat or site plan
for any part of the approved master plan is submitted within two years after
approval of the planned development, the Town may initiate a zoning map
amendment application to rezone the land back to its prior zoning
classification or any other base zoning classification determined to be
appropriate. Such time period shall not be extended with transfer of ownership.
      2.   Upon written request submitted at least 30 days before expiration of
the two-year period provided in subsection (1) above, and upon a showing of
good cause, the Planning Director may grant one extension not to exceed one
year for the applicant to submit required development applications.
   N.   Appeal.
      1.   Appeal of a decision by the Board of Commissioners on a planned
development shall be subject to review by the Superior Court of Wake County.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.16.   Reasonable Accommodation
   A.   Purpose. This section provides a procedure for reasonable accommodation
of eligible persons in cases where the strict application of the standards of
this Ordinance would deprive them of their right to equal opportunity to use a
dwelling under the federal Fair Housing Act.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   For the purposes of this section, an eligible person is a person who
meets the definition of a disabled or handicapped person under federal law.
      2.   A person recovering from substance abuse is considered a person with
a disability or handicap provided they are not currently engaging in the
illegal use of controlled substances.
   C.   Reasonable Accommodation Procedure. The reasonable accommodation
procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.16, Reasonable Accommodation Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.16: Reasonable Accommodation Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1931.png]
   D.   Application.
      1.   An application for reasonable accommodation may be made by any of
the following:
         a.   A person with a disability or handicap, or their legal
representative; or
         b.   A provider of housing for persons with disabilities or handicaps.
      2.   An application for reasonable accommodation shall also include the
following:
         a.   The basis for the claim that the applicant or persons receiving
services from the applicant is considered disabled or handicapped under federal
law;
         b.   The Ordinance provision from which the reasonable accommodation
is being requested; and
         c.   An explanation of why the reasonable accommodation is necessary
to make specific land or development available for the applicant.
   E.   Review and Decision by the Board of Adjustment.
      1.   The BOA, at the conclusion of a quasi-judicial public hearing, shall
decide the application for the reasonable accommodation.
      2.   The decision shall be based on the competent, material, and
substantial evidence, as supplemented by arguments presented at the quasi-
judicial hearing, and the standards in Section
2.2.16.F, Reasonable Accommodation Review Standards.
      3.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Approval of the reasonable accommodation application as proposed;
         b.   Approval of the reasonable accommodation application with
revisions; or
         c.   Denial of the application.
      4.   Each decision shall be made in writing and reflect the BOA's
determination of contested facts and their application to the standards in this
Ordinance.
      5.   The written decision shall be signed by the Chair or other duly
authorized member of the BOA.
      6.   The decision of the BOA shall be effective upon the filing of the
written decision in the offices of the Planning Department.
   F.   Reasonable Accommodation Review Standards.
      1.   A reasonable accommodation application shall be approved on a
finding the proposed accommodation:
         a.   Will be used by an individual or individuals with a disability or
handicap protected under federal law;
         b.   Is the minimum needed to provide accommodation; and
         c.   Is reasonable and necessary.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, an accommodation is reasonable if
it would not undermine the legitimate purposes of this Ordinance, it does not
constitute a substantial alteration of this Ordinance or other Town standard,
and it will not impose significant financial and administrative burden upon the
Town.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, an accommodation is necessary if
it would provide direct or meaningful improvement of the effects of the
particular disability or handicap, and would afford handicapped or disabled
persons equal opportunity to use housing in the Town.
   G.   Effect. A reasonable accommodation shall not affect an applicant's
obligation to comply with other applicable standards in this Ordinance that are
not the subject of the reasonable accommodation application.
   H.   Amendment. Amendment of an application for reasonable accommodation may
only be reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   I.   Expiration. Approval of a reasonable accommodation shall describe the
conditions or events that would terminate the reasonable accommodation or cause
it to expire.
   J.   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on a reasonable accommodation request
shall be reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in
accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.17.   Residential Preliminary Plan
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this preliminary plan procedure is
to establish a fair, consistent, and predictable procedure for the review of
requests to divide land into a series of lots for development or sale in ways
that promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the Town of
Zebulon. The intent of these standards is to ensure:
      1.   Orderly growth and development;
      2.   Coordination of transportation and utility networks;
      3.   Preservation of open space for purposes of recreation or natural
resource protection;
      4.   Protection from flooding, damaging sedimentation, and decreased
surface water quality; and
      5.   Distribution of population in ways that supports infrastructure
investment and diminishes the impact of traffic and overcrowding.
Figure 2.2.17: Residential Preliminary Plan Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1929.png]
   B.   Applicability. Divisions of land that do not qualify as an exempt
subdivision (see Section 2.2.9. Exempt Subdivision), or an expedited
subdivision (see Section 2.2.10, Expedited Subdivision), shall be reviewed and
decided as a preliminary plat in accordance with these standards.
   C.   Preliminary Plan Review Procedure. The preliminary plan procedure is
described in Figure 2.2.17, Preliminary Plan Review Procedure, as supplemented
by Section 2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
   D.   Application. The application shall include a transportation impact
analysis for review, when required by Section 6.13, Transportation Impact
Analysis.
   E.   Review and Decision by the Technical Review Committee. The Technical
Review Committee shall review and decide with Section 2.2.17.F, Preliminary
Plan Review Standards.
   F.   Preliminary Plan Review Standards.
      1.   An application for a preliminary plan shall be approved, provided:
         a.   The preliminary plan is prepared and sealed by a licensed
professional land surveyor, registered professional landscape architect, or
licensed professional engineer;
         b.   The preliminary plan complies with the applicable standards in
Section 47-30 of the North Carolina General Statutes;
         c.   The preliminary plan includes all applicable certifications
identified in the Procedures Manual;
         d.   All lots have been certified by Wake County Environmental
Resources as capable of accommodating the wastewater generated from the
proposed use, in cases when the lot(s) is not served by a centralized
wastewater system;
         e.   The preliminary plan is in substantial conformance with all
applicable requirements in Article 3: Districts;
         f.   The preliminary plan complies with all standards and conditions
of any applicable permits and development approvals;
         g.   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or be similar to
the name of an existing subdivision in Wake County or the town; and
         h.   The preliminary plan complies with all other applicable
requirements in this Ordinance and the County Code of Ordinances.
      2.   Preliminary plan containing parcels of land located within a special
flood hazard area shall comply with the standards in Section 3.8.2, Flood
Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, and any recorded plats shall include the
following statement:
            "Use of land within a floodplain or flood hazard overlay is
substantially restricted by the Town of Zebulon."
   G.   Effect.
      1.   Approval of a preliminary plan authorizes the submittal of
construction drawings, and/or a final plat. Construction drawings shall be
required in cases where public infrastructure (e.g., streets, water lines,
sanitary sewer, etc.) is being extended to serve lots in the development.
      2.   Approval of a preliminary plan shall not constitute the approval for
recording a subdivision with the Wake County Register of Deeds, or approval for
the conveyance of lots.
   H.   Amendment. Amendment of a preliminary plan approval may only be
reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
      I.   Expiration. An approved preliminary plan shall be valid for two
years from the date of approval.
      2.   Extension.
         a.   An applicant may request an extension of a preliminary plan
approval in writing to the Planning Director at least 30 days prior to
expiration.
         b.   Extension requests shall be reviewed and decided by the Technical
Review Committee.
         c.   A preliminary plan may be extended once for a maximum duration of
one year.
   I.   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on a preliminary plan shall be reviewed
and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance with
Section 2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 9-11-2023)
2.2.18.   Sign Permit
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this section is to provide a uniform
mechanism for reviewing applications for sign permits to ensure all signs
comply with the standards of Section
5.11, Signage.
   B.   Applicability. All signs, including temporary signs, but excluding
signs exempted from obtaining sign permits in Section
5.11, Signage, shall obtain a sign permit in accordance with this section
before being erected, replaced, relocated, or altered.
   C.   Sign Permit Procedure. The sign permit procedure is described in Figure
2.2.18, Sign Permit Procedure, as supplemented by Section 2.3, Application
Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.18: Sign Permit Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1965.png]
   D.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on a sign permit shall be
made by the Planning Director in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.18.E, Sign Permit Review Standards.
   E.   Sign Permit Review Standards. A sign permit shall be approved on a
decision the application complies with:
      1.   The standards in Section
5.11, Signage;
      2.   The State Building Code(s);
      3.   All standards or conditions of any prior applicable permits and
developments approvals; and
      4.   All other applicable requirements of this Ordinance and in the Town
Code of Ordinances.
   F.   Amendment. Amendment of a sign permit may only be reviewed and
considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
   G.   Expiration. If the work authorized by a sign permit is not commenced
within six months from the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and
void.
   H.   Appeal. Appeal of the decision on a sign permit shall be reviewed and
decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and in accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.19.   Special Use Permit
   A.   Purpose and Intent. This section sets out the procedure for
consideration of an application for a special use permit. A special use is a
use that may be appropriate in a zoning district, but because of its nature,
extent, and external effects, requires special consideration of its location,
design, and methods of operation before it can be deemed appropriate in the
district and compatible with its surroundings.
   B.   Applicability. Applications for uses identified as requiring a special
use in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, shall be reviewed in accordance with the
procedures and standards of this section.
   C.   Special Use Permit Procedure. The Special Use Permit procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.19, Special Use Permit Procedure, as supplemented by Section 2.3,
Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.19: Special Use Permit Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1963.png]
   D.   Application.
      1.   An application for a special use permit shall include a site plan
that depicts the proposed use and site configuration. The TRC shall review and
comment on the site plan prior to consideration of the application by the Board
of Commissioners.
      2.   The application shall include a transportation impact analysis for
review, when required by Section
6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis.
   E.   Review and Decision by Board of Commissioners. Following the conclusion
of a quasi-judicial public hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall review and
decide the application in accordance with Section
2.2.19.F, Special Use Permit Review Standards. The decision shall be the one of
the following:
      1.   Approval of the special use and concept plan as proposed;
      2.   Approval of a revised special use or concept plan;
      3.   Denial of the special use and concept plan; or
      4.   Remand of the special use application for further consideration.
   F.   Special Use Permit Review Standards. A special use shall be approved
upon a determination that the special use:
      1.   Will not materially endanger the public health or safety if located
where proposed;
      2.   Complies with all required standards, conditions, and specifications
of this Ordinance, including
Article 4: Uses;
      3.   Will not substantially injure the value of the abutting land, or the
special use is a public necessity;
      4.   Will be in harmony with the area in which it is to be located;
      5.   Is in general conformity with the Town's adopted policy guidance;
and
      6.   Includes a concept plan that accurately depicts the proposed use's
configuration.
   G.   Conditions of Approval.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners may apply conditions of approval to
assure that the use will be harmonious with the area where proposed and
consistent with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance.
      2.   The Board of Commissioners may apply conditions limiting the permit
to a specified duration or may place limits on the availability of proposed
residential dwelling units to coincide with the provision or maintenance of
adequate public facilities.
      3.   All conditions shall be identified in the approval, the notice of
decision, and on the associated site plan.
   H.   Effect.
      1.   A special use approval is perpetually binding and run with the land,
unless amended or limited in duration by the reviewing authority.
      2.   An action invalidating a special use condition of approval (such as
an intensity or hours of operation limitation) shall render the special use
permit null and void.
      3.   Special uses shall meet all applicable state and federal
requirements for location and operation. Failure to maintain compliance with
those requirements may result in the revocation of the special use.
   I.   Amendment. Amendments of a special use permit or an associated concept
plan may only be reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and
standards established for its original approval.
   J.   Expiration.
      1.   Replacement. If a special use is replaced by a use otherwise
permitted by right in the zoning district, the special use permit approval is
deemed abandoned and the special use permit approval is null and void.
      2.   Failure to Complete Construction. Unless otherwise stated in the
special use permit approval, a special use permit shall expire and become null
and void two years after the date of issuance if:
         a.   The authorized use has not commenced;
         b.   No substantial construction activity has taken place; or
         c.   Construction activities have started, but the value of all
construction activity is less than five percent of the estimated total cost of
construction.
      3.   Extension.
         a.   An applicant may request an extension of a special use permit
approval in writing to the Planning Director at least 60 days prior to
expiration.
         b.   Extension requests shall be reviewed and decided by the Board of
Commissioners.
         c.   Up to one extension for a maximum period of one year may be
granted if:
            i.   The applicant has proceeded towards completion of construction
in good faith and with due diligence; and
            ii.   Conditions have not changed to the extent that a new
application is warranted in the sole discretion of the Board of Commissioners.
   K.   Appeal.
      1.   A decision by the BOC on a special use permit shall be subject to
review by the Superior Court of Wake County by proceedings in the nature of
certiorari and in accordance with Section 160D-1402 of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.20.   Temporary Use Permit
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this section is to establish a
uniform mechanism for reviewing temporary uses, structures, and special events
to ensure they comply with the standards in Section
4.5, Temporary Uses. Temporary uses include temporary structures and activities
that are proposed on an individual lot or site for a limited duration and that
have a clear commencement and cessation.
   B.   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
proposed temporary uses, temporary structures, and special events set forth in
Section
4.5, Temporary    Uses, but shall not be applied to applications for temporary
signage, which are subject to the standards in Section
2.2.18, Sign Permit.
   C.   Temporary Use Permit Procedure. The Temporary Use Permit procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.20, Temporary Use Permit Procedure, as supplemented by Section 2.3,
Application Processing.
Figure 2.2.20: Temporary Use Permit Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1961.png]
   D.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on a temporary use permit
shall be made by the Planning Director in accordance with the standards in
Section
2.2.20.E, Temporary Use Permit Review Standards.
   E.   Temporary Use Permit Review Standards. An application for a temporary
use permit shall be approved provided it complies with the following:
      1.   The temporary use permit complies with all applicable requirements
in Section
4.5, Temporary Uses;
      2.   The applicant has written permission from the landowner, or is
otherwise authorized to make use of the land;
      3.   The applicant has obtained the appropriate permits and licenses from
the Town and other agencies;
      4.   The temporary use meets public utility and Town requirements for
proper connection to water, sewer, electrical and other utility service
connections, as applicable;
      5.   The temporary use does not violate the applicable conditions of
approval that apply to a site or use on the site;
      6.   The proposed site contains sufficient land area for the temporary
use and for the parking and traffic movement associated with the temporary use,
without impacting environmentally sensitive lands;
      7.   The temporary use is located outside the FHO district or a special
flood hazard area; and
      8.   Includes a concept plan or plot plan that accurately depicts the
proposed use's configuration.
   F.   Amendment. Amendment of a temporary use permit may only be reviewed and
considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
   G.   Expiration. Approval of a temporary use permit shall be effective
beginning on the date of approval and shall remain effective for the period
indicated in the permit.
   H.   Appeal. Appeal of the Planning Director's decision on a temporary use
permit shall be reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of certiorari and
in accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.21.   UDO Text Amendment
   A.   Purpose and Intent. This section provides a uniform means for amending
the text of this Ordinance whenever public necessity, changed conditions,
convenience, general welfare, or appropriate land use practices justify or
require doing so.
   B.   Applicability. The standards and requirements of this section shall
apply to applications to revise the text of this Ordinance.
   C.   Text Amendment Procedure. The text amendment procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.21, Text Amendment Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.21: Text Amendment Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1959.png]
   D.   Joint Public Hearing. Following provision of public notice for a public
hearing in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice, the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners shall
conduct a legislative joint public hearing on the UDO text amendment
application.
   E.   Review by Planning Board.
      1.   The Planning Board, following the close of the joint public hearing,
shall review the application and the information presented during the joint
public hearing during a follow-up public meeting, and shall make a
recommendation on an application in accordance with Section
2.2.21.G, UDO Text Amendment Review Standards.
      2.   In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall prepare a
written consistency statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the text amendment application is recommended for
approval, denial, or remanded to Town staff; and
         b.   The degree to which the text amendment is or is not consistent
with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the text amendment is or is not consistent with
the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the text amendment also amends or does not
amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the recommendation is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the recommendation is in the public
interest.
   F.   Review and Decision by Board of Commissioners.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of the joint public
hearing conducted with the Planning Board, and receipt of a recommendation on
the UDO text amendment by the Planning Board, shall decide the application
during a follow-up public meeting in accordance with Section
2.2.21.G, UDO Text Amendment Review Standards.
      2.   Nothing shall require the BOC to wait for or consider the
recommendation of the Planning Board on the text amendment application.
      3.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Adoption of the text amendment as proposed;
         b.   Adoption of a revised text amendment;
         c.   Denial of the text amendment; or
         d.   Remand of the text amendment application to the Planning Board
for further consideration.
      4.   In making its decision, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt a
written statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the text amendment application is approved, denied, or
remanded; and
         b.   The degree to which the text amendment application is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the text amendment application is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the text amendment application also amends or
does not amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is in the public interest.
   G.   UDO Text Amendment Review Standards. The advisability of amending the
text of this Ordinance is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of
the Board of Commissioners and is not controlled by any one factor. In
determining whether to adopt or deny the proposed text amendment, the Board of
Commissioners may, but is not required to, consider whether and the extent to
which the proposed text amendment:
      1.   Enhances the public's health, safety, and welfare;
      2.   Is consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance;
      3.   Is not in conflict with any provision of this Ordinance or the Town
Code of Ordinances;
      4.   Is required by changed conditions;
      5.   Addresses a demonstrated community need;
      6.   Addresses an unforeseen matter not present when the Ordinance was
adopted;
      7.   Is consistent with the purpose and intent of the zoning districts in
this Ordinance, or would improve compatibility among uses and ensure efficient
development within the Town;
      8.   Would result in a logical and orderly development pattern;
      9.   Addresses other factors determined to be relevant by the Board of
Commissioners; and
      10.   Would not result in significantly adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including water, air, noise, stormwater management, wildlife,
vegetation, and the natural functioning of the environment.
   H.   Amendment. Amendment of the decision on a UDO text amendment may only
be reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   I.   Expiration. UDO text amendments shall not expire.
   J.   Appeal.
      1.   A decision by the BOC shall be subject to review by the Wake County
Superior Court.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.22.   Variance
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this section is to allow certain
deviations from the dimensional standards of this Ordinance (such as height,
yard setback, lot coverage, or similar numerical standards) when the landowner
demonstrates that, owing to special circumstances or conditions beyond the
landowner's control (such as topographical conditions, narrowness, shallowness,
or shape of a specific parcel of land), a literal application of the standards
would result in undue and unique hardship to the landowner and the deviation
would not be contrary to the public interest. This section also includes
standards for variance from the Town's special flood hazard area standards in
Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, as well as the procedures and
standards for variances from the watershed protection standards included in
Section
3.3.2, Residential Watershed (R1) District.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Development that would otherwise be subject to undue and unique
hardship from the applications of the standards in this Ordinance may seek
relief from the standards in accordance with this section.
      2.   No variance may be sought that increases development density (e.g.,
units per acre) beyond that allowed in a base zoning district, or that would
permit a use not allowed in a zoning district.
   C.   Variance Procedure. The variance procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.22, Variance Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.22: Variance Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1957.png]
   D.   Board of Adjustment Review and Decision.
      1.   The BOA, after the conclusion of a quasi-judicial public hearing,
shall decide the application for a variance.
      2.   The decision shall be based on the evidence in the record, as
supplemented by the arguments presented at the quasi-judicial hearing, and the
standards in Section
2.2.22.G, Variance Review Standards.
      3.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Approval of the variance as proposed;
         b.   Approval of the variance with revisions; or
         c.   Denial of the variance.
      4.   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the BOA shall be necessary to
grant a variance.
      5.   Each decision shall be made in writing and reflect the BOA's
determination of facts and their application to the standards in this
Ordinance.
      6.   The written decision shall be signed by the Chair or other duly
authorized member of the BOA.
      7.   The decision of the BOA shall be effective upon the filing of the
written decision.
   E.   Notification of Decision. The decision of the BOA shall be delivered by
personal service, electronic mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, the
landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written request for a copy
prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person providing
notification of decision shall certify that proper notification has been made.
   F.   Recordation. If a variance application is approved, the notice of
decision may be recorded by the applicant in the office of the Wake County
Register of Deeds.
   G.   Variance Review Standards. The standards in this section are organized
into the standards applicable to variances from the zoning-related provisions,
the flood hazard overlay provisions, and the watershed protection provisions.
      1.   Zoning-Related Variance Standards.
         a.   Required Findings of Fact. A zoning variance shall be approved on
a finding the applicant demonstrates all of the following:
            i.   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application
of the Ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
            ii.   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
            iii.   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the
applicant or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge
that circumstances exist that may justify the granting of the variance shall
not be regarded as a self-created hardship.
            iv.   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit,
purpose, and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved.
         b.   Other Considerations. In addition to the making the required
findings in subsection (a) above, the BOA may also consider the following:
            i.   The variance approval is the minimum necessary to make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
            ii.   All property taxes on the land subject to the variance
application have been paid in full.
            iii.   None of the following may be used as the basis for approving
a variance:
               1.   Neither the nonconforming use of lands, buildings, or
structures in the same zoning district, or the permitted use of lands,
buildings, or structures in other zoning districts, or personal circumstances;
               2.   A request for a particular use that is expressly, or by
inference, prohibited in the zoning district;
               3.   Hardships resulting from factors other than application of
the relevant standards of this ordinance;
               4.   The fact that land or a structure may be utilized more
profitably or be more marketable with a variance;
               5.   The citing of other conforming or nonconforming uses of
land or structures in the same or other zoning districts; or
               6.   Financial hardship.
      2.   Flood Hazard Overlay Variance Standards. In addition to the
standards for a zoning variance, variances from the flood hazard overlay
standards in this Ordinance shall be reviewed and decided in accordance with
the standards in Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, and the following:
         a.   Required Findings of Fact. A variance from the flood hazard area
standards shall be approved on a finding the applicant demonstrates all of the
following standards are met:
            i.   There is a good and sufficient cause to grant the variance;
            ii.   The variance is the minimum necessary to provide relief;
            iii.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the landowner; and
            iv.   Granting the variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict
with this Ordinance.
         b.   Other Considerations. In addition to making the required findings
in subsection (a) above, the BOA may also consider the following:
            i.   Approval of the variance will not render the building in
violation of applicable federal, state, or local requirements;
            ii.   Approval of the variance will not result in any increase in
flood levels within any designated floodway or non-encroachment area during the
base flood discharge;
            iii.   The variance is issued prior to any other prerequisite
permit or development approvals;
         c.   Historic Sites or Structures. Reconstruction or rehabilitation of
structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Inventory of Historic Places may occur in a flood hazard area without need for
obtaining a variance in accordance with this subsection.
         d.   Required Findings for Denial. All of the following factors shall
be considered by the BOA if an application for a variance to the flood hazard
area standards is denied:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands and
injure others;
            2.   The danger to life and land due to flooding or erosion damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual landowner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as a
functionally-dependent facility;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the town's adopted
policy guidance and the town's floodplain management program;
            9.   The safety of access to the use in times of flood for ordinary
emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      3.   Watershed Protection Variance Standards.
         a.   Variances Distinguished.
            i.   Variances from the water supply watershed standards in Section
3.3.2, Residential Watershed (R1) District, in the shall take the form of a
minor variance or a major variance.
            ii.   Major variances pertain to any of the following:
               1.   The relaxation, by a factor greater that 10 percent, of any
management requirement under the low density option;
               2.   The relaxation, by a factor greater than five percent, of
any buffer, density or built upon area requirement under the high density
option; or
               3.   Any variation in the design, maintenance or operation
requirements of a wet detention pond or other approved stormwater management
system.
            iii.   Minor variances pertain to a relaxation, by a factor of up
to ten percent of any buffer, density, or built-upon area requirement under the
low density option.
         b.   Required Findings of Fact. Before the Watershed Review Board may
grant a variance, it shall make the following three findings, which shall be
recorded in the permanent record of the case, and shall include the factual
reasons on which they are based:
            i.   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance. In order to
determine that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the
Board must find that the five following conditions exist:
               1.   In complying with the provisions of this Ordinance, the
applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of,
their property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater profit
to be made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify the
granting of a minor variance. Moreover, the BOA shall consider whether the
variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of this Ordinance
that will make possible the reasonable use of the property;
               2.   The hardship results from the application of the ordinance
to the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or
other hardship;
               3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the
applicant's property, such as size, shape or topography, which is different
from that of neighboring property;
               4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an
applicant who knowingly or unknowingly violates the ordinance, or who purchases
the property after the effective date of the ordinance and then comes to the
Board for relief; and
               5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant's property,
rather than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties
are equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
            ii.   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this Ordinance and preserves its spirit.
            iii.   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and
welfare have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The BOA shall
not grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect impair the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
         c.   Conditions of Approval.
            i.   In granting a variance approval, the BOA may attach conditions
regarding the location, character, and other features of the proposed building,
structure, or use as it may deem advisable.
            ii.   If a variance for the construction, alteration, or use of
property is granted, the construction, alteration or use shall be in accordance
with the approved site plan.
         d.   Prior Denial. The BOA shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
         e.   Expiration. A variance issued in accordance with this section
shall be considered a watershed protection permit and shall expire if a
building permit or watershed occupancy permit for the use is not obtained by
the applicant within six months from the date of the decision.
         f.   Additional Provisions for Major Variances.
            i.   Generally. If the application calls for the granting of a
major variance, and if the BOA decides in favor of granting the variance, the
BOA shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include the following:
               1.   The variance application;
               2.   The hearing notices;
               3.   The evidence presented;
               4.   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence and
rulings on them;
               5.   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
               6.   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to
be added to the permit.
            ii.   Action by the Environmental Management Commission. The
preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental Management Commission for
its review as follows:
               1.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record
that the variance qualifies as a major variance and that the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted, and the variance, if granted, will not
result in a serious threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approve the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations.
               2.   The Commission shall prepare a decision and send it to the
BOA. If the Commission approves the variance as proposed, the BOA shall prepare
a final decision granting the proposed variance.
               3.   If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the BOA shall prepare a final decision, including those
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
               4.   If the Commission concludes from a preliminary record that
the variance qualifies as a major variance and that the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance or the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to
the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed.
               5.   The Commission shall prepare a decision and send it to the
BOA.
               6.   The BOA shall prepare a final decision denying the variance
as proposed.
   H.   Insufficient Grounds for Approving Variances. The following factors
shall not constitute sufficient grounds for approval of any variance:
      1.   A request for a particular use that is expressly, or by inference,
prohibited in the zoning district;
      2.   Hardships resulting from factors other than application of
requirements of this Ordinance;
      3.   The fact that land or a structure may be utilized more profitably or
be more marketable with a variance; or
      4.   The citing of other nonconforming or conforming uses of land or
structures in the same or other zoning districts.
   I.   Conditions of Approval. In granting a variance, the BOA may prescribe
conditions of approval to ensure compliance with the standards of this section,
and to assure that the use of the land to which the variance applies will be
compatible with surrounding lands and will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood.
      1.   A variance granted subject to a condition of approval shall be
permitted as long as there is compliance with the condition.
      2.   Violation of a condition of approval shall be deemed a violation of
this Ordinance.
      3.   If a violation or invalidation of a condition of approval occurs,
the Planning Director may revoke the authorization for the development subject
to the variance.
   J.   Effect.
      1.   General. Approval of a variance authorizes only the particular
regulatory relief approved by the BOA. It does not exempt the applicant from
the responsibility to obtain all other permits or development approvals
required by this Ordinance or any other applicable laws, and does not indicate
that the development for which the variance is granted should receive other
permits or development approvals under this Ordinance unless the relevant and
applicable portions of this Ordinance are met.
      2.   Notification Regarding Flood Insurance Costs.
         a.   An applicant for whom a flood hazard area variance is approved
shall be provided written notice by the Planning Director specifying the
difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the elevation to which
the structure is built. The notice shall inform the applicant about the risks
to life and property from construction below the BFE and that issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance.
         b.   The notification shall be maintained by the Planning Director
with the record of the variance action.
      3.   Records. Upon request, the Planning Director shall report all flood-
related variances approved in accordance with this section to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and the State of North Carolina.
   K.   Amendment. Amendment of a variance may only be reviewed and considered
in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original
approval.
   L.   Expiration.
      1.   If the BOA does not include a time period by which development
subject to variance expires, development shall commence within 12 months of the
date of issuance of the variance or the variance shall expire and become null
and void.
      2.   A variance shall expire and become invalid if the property owner
changes development on the site such that the extraordinary and exceptional
conditions that warranted the hardship and variance no longer do so.
   M.   Appeal.
      1.   Any decision by the BOA shall be subject to review by the Superior
Court of Wake County by proceedings in the nature of certiorari and in
accordance with Section 160D-1402 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.23.   Vested Rights Determination
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for this section is to establish a
clear procedure for an applicant to request vesting or protection from changes
in this Ordinance that take place after approval of the application but prior
to completion of an approved site-specific development plan.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   A vested right may be established, in accordance with Section 160D-
108 of the North Carolina General Statutes, and this section.
      2.   A vested rights determination shall be limited to development
included in a site specific development plan. For the purposes of this section,
a site specific development plan shall be limited to any one of the following
development approvals:
         a.   Special use permits;
         b.   Preliminary plats;
         c.   Planned developments; or
         d.   Site plans.
      3.   An application for a vested rights determination shall be processed
concurrently or after the approval of a special use permit, preliminary plat,
planned development, or site plan.
   C.   Vested Rights Determination Procedure. The vested rights procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.23, Vested Rights Determination Procedure, as supplemented by
Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.23: Vested Rights Determination Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1955.png]
   D.   Board of Commissioners Review and Decision.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of a legislative
public hearing, shall decide the application in accordance with Section
2.2.23.E, Vested Rights Determination Review Standards.
      2.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Approval of the vested rights determination as proposed;
         b.   Approval of a revised vested rights determination; or
         c.   Denial of vested rights determination.
   E.   Vested Rights Determination Review Standards. A vested rights
determination shall be approved if:
      1.   The vested rights determination is for an approved site-specific
development plan;
      2.   The development is valid and unexpired; and
      3.   Any required variances have been obtained.
   F.   Effect.
      1.   A vested rights certificate shall be approved prior to issuance of a
building permit.
      2.   Each document used to establish a site specific development plan
shall bear the following notation: "Approval of this plan establishes a zoning
vested right under Section 160D-108 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
Unless terminated at an earlier date, the vested right shall be valid until
_______(date)."
      3.   The establishment of a vested right shall not preclude the
application of overlay zoning district provisions that impose additional
requirements but do not affect the allowable type and intensity of use, or
through ordinances that are general in nature and are applicable to all
property subject to land use regulation by the Town, including building, fire,
plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes.
   G.   Amendment. Amendment of vested rights determination may only be
reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   H.   Expiration.
      1.   In no instance shall a vested right determination provide a vested
right for a period of longer than five years from the date of approval.
      2.   A vested right determination shall expire and become null and void:
         a.   At the end of the applicable vesting period; or
         b.   If a building permit application for the development subject to
the determination is not submitted within two years of the approval of the
vested rights determination associated with a special use permit, preliminary
plat, or site plan, or five years of the approval of a vested rights
determination associated with a planned development; or
         c.   Upon a finding by the Board of Commissioners after notice and a
public hearing, that:
            i.   Natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of
the land, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated;
            ii.   The landowner or landowner's representative intentionally
supplied inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations which
affected the approval of the site specific development plan;
            iii.   The landowner failed to comply with any condition imposed
upon the establishment of the site specific development plan or vested rights
determination; or
         d.   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all
costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including all fees
paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural, planning, marketing,
legal, and other consultant fees incurred after approval of the determination
by the Town, together with interest at the legal rate until paid. Compensation
shall not include any diminution in the value of the land which is caused by
such action; or
         e.   With the written consent of the affected landowner.
      3.   Upon enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site-specific
development plan, the Board of Commissioners may modify the affected provisions
of the determination by ordinance, if after conducting a hearing, it finds the
changed conditions created by the change in the state or federal law have a
fundamental effect on the site specific development plan.
   I.   Appeal.
      1.   A decision by the Board of Commissioners of a vested rights
determination shall be subject to review by the Superior Court of Wake County.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.2.24.   Zoning Compliance Permit
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of a zoning compliance permit is to
ensure no development occurs until there is assurance the development complies
with the requirements of this Ordinance and all other applicable requirements.
   B.   Applicability. A zoning compliance permit is required for issuance of a
building permit, any change in use, or commencement of activity that does not
require issuance of a building permit. Nothing shall prevent a zoning
compliance permit from being issued concurrently with a building permit.
   C.   Zoning Compliance Permit Procedure. The zoning compliance permit
procedure is described in
Figure 2.2.24, Zoning Compliance Permit Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.24: Zoning Compliance Permit Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1953.png]
   D.   Decision by Planning Director. The decision on a zoning compliance
permit shall be made by the Planning Director in accordance with the standards
in Section
2.2.24.E, Zoning Compliance Permit Review Standards.
   E.   Zoning Compliance Permit Review Standards. A zoning compliance permit
shall be approved on a decision the application complies with:
      1.   All standards or conditions of any prior applicable permits and
developments approvals;
      2.   Any applicable requirements of the Wake County Environmental
Resources; and
      3.   All applicable requirements of this Ordinance and in the Town Code
of Ordinances.
   F.   Effect.
      1.   Approval of a zoning compliance permit authorizes an applicant to
apply for a building permit, commence construction, or proceed with the
approved development in cases where a building permit is not required.
      2.   If the zoning compliance permit application is filed concurrently
with a building permit application, approval of the zoning compliance permit
authorizes the Town to complete its review of the building permit application.
   G.   Amendment. Amendment of a zoning compliance permit may only be reviewed
and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
   H.   Expiration. A zoning compliance permit shall expire and become null and
void one year after the date of issuance if the authorized use has not
commenced.
   I.   Appeal. Appeal of the Planning Director's decision on a zoning
compliance permit shall be reviewed and decided by the BOA in the nature of
certiorari and in accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.2.25.   Zoning Map Amendment
   A.   Purpose and Intent. This section provides a uniform means for reviewing
and deciding proposed amendments to the Official Zoning Map whenever the public
necessity, general welfare, the Town's adopted policy guidance, or appropriate
land use practices justify or require doing so.
   B.   Applicability. This procedure sets out the requirements for amendments
to the zoning district designation of land within the Town's planning
jurisdiction as well as for land coming into the Town's planning jurisdiction
via annexation in accordance with the standards in Sections 160D-602 through
160D-605 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   C.   Procedures Distinguished.
      1.   This zoning map amendment procedure shall be used in the
consideration of traditional map amendment.
      2.   Conditional rezoning (see Section
2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning) applications are applications that include
conditions agreed to by the applicant and the Town that seek to either further
limit development beyond that allowed within a specific base zoning district,
or otherwise deviate from the minimum standards that would otherwise apply.
      3.   Applications filed as either a traditional zoning map amendment or
conditional rezoning application may not be converted to the other form of map
amendment application during the review process, and shall instead be withdrawn
and resubmitted as a new application.
   D.   Zoning Map Amendment Procedure. The zoning map amendment procedure is
described in
Figure 2.2.25, Zoning Map Amendment Procedure, as supplemented by Section
2.3, Application Processing, and the Procedures Manual.
Figure 2.2.25: Zoning Map Amendment Procedure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1951.png]
   E.   Application Submittal. Applications may be initiated by the Board of
Commissioners, the Planning Board, the Planning Director, all landowner(s) or
contract purchasers of the land in the proposed application.
   F.   Joint Public Hearing. Following provision of public notice for a public
hearing in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice, the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners shall
conduct a joint legislative public hearing on the zoning map amendment
application.
   G.   Review by Planning Board.
      1.   The Planning Board, following the close of the joint public hearing,
shall review the application and the information presented during the joint
public hearing during a follow-up public meeting, and shall make a
recommendation on a the zoning map amendment application in accordance with
Section
2.2.25.J, Zoning Map Amendment Review Standards.
      2.   In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall prepare a
written consistency statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the zoning map amendment application is recommended for
approval, denial, or remanded to Town staff; and
         b.   The degree to which the zoning map amendment is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the zoning map amendment is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the zoning map amendment also amends or does
not amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the Town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the recommendation is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the recommendation is in the public
interest.
   H.   Board of Commissioners Review and Decision.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of the joint public
hearing conducted with the Planning Board, and receipt of a recommendation on
the zoning map amendment by the Planning Board, shall decide the application
during a follow-up public meeting in accordance with Section
2.2.25.J, Zoning Map Amendment Review Standards.
      2.   The decision shall be one of the following:
         a.   Adoption of the zoning map amendment as proposed;
         b.   Adoption of the zoning map amendment to a zoning district
designation of lesser intensity;
         c.   Denial of the zoning map amendment; or
         d.   Remand of the zoning map amendment application to the Planning
Board for further consideration.
      3.   The Board of Commissioners shall not rely upon any representations
made by the applicant that if the application is granted, the subject land will
be used for limited types of uses permitted in the requested zoning district.
Rather, the Board of Commissioners shall consider the full range of use types
allowable in the proposed zoning district designation.
      4.   In making its decision, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt a
written statement including each of the following:
         a.   Whether the zoning map amendment application is approved, denied,
or remanded; and
         b.   The degree to which the zoning map amendment is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         c.   The ways in which the zoning map amendment is or is not
consistent with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         d.   Whether approval of the zoning map amendment amends or does not
amend the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
         e.   If the adopted policy guidance is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the town that were taken into account as part of the
approval; and
         f.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is reasonable; and
         g.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is in the public interest.
   I.   Designation on Official Zoning Map. The Planning Director shall make
changes to the Official Zoning Map promptly after approval of a zoning map
amendment application by the Board of Commissioners.
   J.   Zoning Map Amendment Review Standards. The advisability of an amendment
to the Official Zoning Map is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the Board of Commissioners and is not controlled by any one factor. In
determining whether to adopt or deny a proposed zoning map amendment, the Board
of Commissioners may weigh the relevance of and consider the following:
      1.   Whether the proposed zoning map amendment advances the public
health, safety, or welfare;
      2.   Whether and the extent to which the proposed rezoning is appropriate
for its proposed location, and is consistent with the purposes, goals,
objectives, and policies of the Town's adopted policy guidance.
      3.   Whether an approval of the rezoning is reasonable and in the public
interest.
      4.   Other factors as the Board of Commissioners may determine to be
relevant.
   K.   Effect.
      1.   Lands subject to an approved map amendment shall be subject to all
the applicable standards in this Ordinance, which shall be binding and shall
run with the land.
      2.   Development located outside the Zebulon corporate limits shall
comply with all Town policies related annexation and the extension of
utilities.
   L.   Amendment. Amendment of a decision on a zoning map amendment may only
be reviewed and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards
established for its original approval.
   M.   Appeal.
      1.   Any decision by the Board of Commissioners shall be subject to
review by the Superior Court of Wake County.
      2.   Petitions for review must be filed with the Clerk of Court within 30
days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate review
authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class
mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.3.   APPLICATION PROCESSING
2.3.1.   Purpose and Intent
   A.   This section describes the standard (or common) procedural steps and
rules generally applicable to all development applications reviewed under this
Ordinance, unless otherwise specified in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures. It is the intent of this section to
establish a uniform set of processes to foster greater efficiency and
predictability for applicants, adjacent landowners, elected officials, and Town
staff.
   B.   The subsections in this section are listed sequentially and are
intended to describe the procedures that take place during the application
submittal, review, and decision notification process.
2.3.2.   Pre-application Conference
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a pre-application conference is to provide an
opportunity for the applicant to learn about the submittal requirements,
procedures, and standards applicable to a particular development application. A
pre-application conference is also an opportunity for Town staff to become
familiar with, and offer preliminary comments about the scope, features, and
impacts of the proposed development, as it relates to the standards in this
Ordinance.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Pre-Application Conference Required.
         a.   A pre-application conference between the applicant and Town staff
is required before submittal of some applications, in accordance with
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures.
         b.   Pre-application conferences are optional for other applications.
         c.   There are no limits on the number of pre-application conferences
that may be conducted, though the Town may charge an application fee for the
third or subsequent pre-application conference on the same project or
development site.
      2.   Discussions Non-Binding. Discussions at a pre-application conference
are not binding on the Town and do not constitute submittal or review of an
application.
    C.   Scheduling. Applicants shall contact the Planning Director to schedule
a pre-application conference.
   D.   Procedure.
      1.   Following receipt of a request for a pre-application conference, the
Planning Director shall schedule the conference and notify the applicant of the
time and location. During the conference, Town staff members will explain the
application review process and any special issues or concerns regarding the
subject proposal.
      2.   The applicant is encouraged to submit a sketch or conceptual plan,
if appropriate, to Town staff prior to or during the pre-application
conference, but there is no requirement to submit any material in advance of
the conference.
   E.   Effect. When required, a completed pre-application conference entitles
an applicant to take the next step in the application process. Applications for
development proposals that mandate a pre-application conference will not be
accepted until after the mandatory pre-application conference has been
completed.
2.3.3.   Application Filing
   A.   Authority to File Applications. Unless expressly stated otherwise in
this Ordinance, development applications associated with a particular lot or
site reviewed under this Ordinance shall be submitted by the landowner,
contract purchaser, or other person having a recognized property interest in
the land on which development is proposed.
   B.   Application Content. The Town of Zebulon shall establish application
content and forms, which shall be contained in the Procedures Manual. The
Procedures Manual shall be maintained by the Planning Director.
   C.   Application Fees.
      1.   The Board of Commissioners shall establish application fees, and may
amend and update those fees as necessary. Fees shall cover the costs of review,
including public notification, as required.
      2.   No action shall be taken on an application and no application
approval shall be issued until all required application fees are paid in full.
   D.   Submittal and Review Schedule. The Procedures Manual contains specific
rules for submittal and review schedules (including time frames for review) for
the various types of development applications.
   E.   Application Filing.
      1.   Applications shall be submitted to the Town in the form established
in the Procedures Manual, along with the appropriate application fee.
      2.   An application shall not be considered to be submitted until
determined to be complete in accordance with Section
2.3.3.G, Determination of Application Completeness.
      3.   No application shall be reviewed or decided until after it is
determined to be complete.
      4.   No application shall be accepted for development proposed on a lot
or site until property taxes are paid in full, as determined by the Wake County
Tax Assessor.
   F.   Burden of Presenting Complete Application. The burden of presenting and
maintaining a complete application shall be solely upon the applicant.
   G.   Determination of Application Completeness. On receiving a development
application, the Planning Director shall determine, within a reasonable period
of time, whether the application is complete or incomplete. A complete
application is one that:
      1.   Contains all information and materials identified in the Procedures
Manual as required for submittal of the particular type of application;
      2.   Is in the form and number of copies required by the Procedures
Manual;
      3.   Is legible and printed to scale (where appropriate);
      4.   Is signed by the person with the authority to file the application;
      5.   Includes information in sufficient detail to evaluate whether or not
the application complies with the applicable review standards in this
Ordinance;
      6.   Is accompanied by the fee established for the particular type of
application;
      7.   Includes material associated with a pre-application conference, if
one is required;
      8.   Includes the written summary of a neighborhood meeting, if one was
conducted prior to application submittal; and
      9.   Is not subject to the limitations described in Section
2.3.12, Limitation on Subsequent Similar Applications, and may be resubmitted
in accordance with Section
2.3.3.A, Authority to File Applications.
   H.   Application Incomplete. If the application is incomplete, the Planning
Director shall notify the applicant of the deficiencies. The applicant may
correct the deficiencies and resubmit the application for completeness
determination in accordance with Section
2.3.3.D, Submittal and Review Schedule.
   I.   Application Complete.
      1.   On determining that the application is complete, it shall be
considered as submitted, and the Town shall notify the applicant and commence
review in accordance with the procedures and standards of this Ordinance.
      2.   Nothing shall preclude the Planning Director or a review authority
from re-evaluating an application for completeness in the event application
inadequacies are revealed at a date subsequent to an application being declared
complete.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.3.4.   Neighborhood Meeting
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is to inform
landowners and occupants of nearby lands about a development application that
is going to be reviewed under this Ordinance, and to provide the applicant an
opportunity to hear comments and concerns about the development proposal prior
to the public hearing process. The neighborhood meeting is proposed as a means
of resolving potential conflicts and outstanding issues with nearby landowners,
where possible, in a more informal context.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Neighborhood meetings shall be conducted prior to filing of an
application for the following types of development applications:
         a.   Conditional rezonings;
         b.   Planned developments;
         c.   Site plans in the DTC or DTP districts;
         d.   Special use permits; or
         e.   Zoning map amendments that establish a more dense or intense
zoning district.
      2.   A neighborhood information meeting is optional for any other
proposed development application.
   C.   Procedure. In cases when a neighborhood meeting is conducted, it shall
comply with the following procedure:
      1.   Timing.
         a.   The meeting should be held at a time of day when the maximum
number of neighbors may attend.
         b.   The meeting shall take place no less than three days before the
application is filed with the Town.
      2.   Form.
         a.   The neighborhood information meeting can take the form of a
meeting or gathering between the applicant, or the applicant's representative,
and landowners or other interested parties.
         b.   Multiple meetings may take place, but notification for each
meeting shall be provided.
      3.   Location.
         a.   The neighborhood meeting shall take place in a public or
community space as close as possible to the site where development is proposed.
         b.   In the event no public or community space is suitable, the
meeting may take place at another Town-owned site, subject to a prior
reservation made by the applicant.
      4.   Notification.
         a.   The applicant shall provide notification of the neighborhood
meeting via first class mail to all landowners and occupants within 300 linear
feet of the outer perimeter of the site where development is proposed.
         b.   Mailed notice shall be provided no less than ten days prior to
the date of the neighborhood meeting.
      5.   Information Provided. The applicant shall provide the following
information in the neighborhood meeting invitation:
         a.   The purpose of the neighborhood meeting;
         b.   A description of the proposed development;
         c.   The time, date, and location of the meeting;
         d.   Telephone and email contact information for the applicant or
applicant's representative; and
         e.   Any additional information that would promote understanding of
the development proposal.
      6.   Conduct of Meeting. At the meeting, the applicant shall explain the
development proposal and the proposed application, respond to questions and
concerns neighbors raise about the application, and propose ways to resolve
conflicts and concerns.
      7.   Staff Attendance. Town staff shall not attend a neighborhood meeting
in a professional capacity. Nothing shall limit a Town staff member from
attending a neighborhood meeting as an interested citizen.
      8.   Written Summary. The applicant shall submit a written summary of the
neighborhood meeting with the application materials. At a minimum, the written
summary shall include all of the following:
         a.   An affidavit of mailing listing all parties (including mailing
address) who were mailed a meeting invitation;
         b.   A copy of the meeting invitation;
         c.   A sign-in sheet of meeting attendees; and
         d.   A list of the items discussed, including any questions posed by
attendees and the answers provided.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.3.5.   Staff Review and Action
   A.   Initial Staff Review.
      1.   Following application completeness determination, it shall be
distributed by the Planning Director to all appropriate staff and review
agencies for review and comment.
      2.   Applications shall be reviewed during the review cycle in place when
the application is determined to be complete.
      3.   In considering the application, the Planning Director or other Town
staff (as appropriate), shall review the application, relevant support
material, and any comments or recommendations from other staff and review
agencies to which the application was referred.
      4.   If deficiencies in complying with applicable standards of this
Ordinance are identified, the Planning Director shall notify the applicant of
such deficiencies and provide the applicant a reasonable opportunity to discuss
them and revise the application accordingly.
   B.   Staff Report and Recommendation.
      1.   The Planning Director shall prepare a written staff report on any
application to be reviewed or decided by the Planning Board, Board of
Commissioners, or the Board of Adjustment.
      2.   The staff report shall conclude whether the application complies
with all applicable review standards of this Ordinance, and recommend one of
the decisions authorized for the particular type of application, based on the
review standards applicable to the application type, in accordance with Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures.
      3.   The staff report will not include a recommendation from Town staff
on applications decided through the quasi-judicial process.
      4.   In cases where the staff finds an application does not comply with
the provisions of this Ordinance the staff report shall cite the specific code
section(s) in question and the reasons why the application fails to comply.
      5.   The staff report may identify and recommend modifications to the
development proposal that specify how compliance deficiencies might be
corrected and how adverse effects of the development application (if any) might
be mitigated.
      6.   A staff report is not required for applications decided by the
Planning Director, or the Technical Review Committee, though one may be
prepared.
   C.   Distribution and Availability of Application and Staff Report. In cases
where a staff report is prepared, the Planning Director shall take the
following actions within a reasonable time period before the application is
scheduled for review:
      1.   Schedule and ensure any required public notice of the application
(if appropriate) is prepared in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice;
      2.   Transmit the application, related materials, and staff report to the
appropriate review authority (ies);
      3.   Transmit a copy of the staff report and any related materials to the
applicant; and
      4.   Make the application, related materials, and staff report available
for examination by the public.
   D.   Applications Subject to Decision by Staff.
      1.   In cases where a development application is decided by the Planning
Director or other designated Town staff member, the appropriate Town staff
member shall make one of the following decisions, based on the review standards
set forth in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures:
         a.   Approve the application;
         b.   Disapprove the application; or
         c.   Delay decision making for a specified time to allow the applicant
to revise the application for compliance with the requirements in this
Ordinance.
      2.   In some instances, Town staff may decide an application contingent
upon further revision by the applicant in accordance with the direction
provided in the decision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.3.6.   Public Notice
   A.   Public Meeting Distinguished. Public meetings conducted in accordance
with this Ordinance are not public hearings, and do not require the provision
of public notification in accordance with this section.
   B.   Public Hearing Scheduling. When a development application is subject to
a public hearing, the Planning Director shall ensure that the public hearing is
scheduled for a regular meeting or a meeting specially called for that purpose
by the review authority.
   C.   Public Notification Requirements.
      1.   All development applications subject to public notification shall
comply with the appropriate standards in the North Carolina General Statutes.
More specifically, Section 160D-601(a) for published notice, Section 160D-602
(a) for mailed notice, and Section 160D-602(c) for posted notice.
      2.   
Table 2.3.6.C, Public Notification Requirements, summarizes the provisions
related to public notice. In computing the required time periods, the day the
notice is published, mailed, or posted shall not be included, but the day of
the hearing shall be included.
TABLE 2.3.6.C: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
Application Type Type of Public Notification "X"=Required
                 Published Notice [1] Mailed Notice [2] Posted Notice [3]
TABLE 2.3.6.C: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
Application Type      Type of Public Notification "X"=Required
                      Published Notice [1] Mailed Notice [2] Posted Notice [3]
Annexation            X                    X                 X
Appeal                X                    X [4]             .
Conditional Rezoning  X                    X                 X
Development Agreement X                    X                 X
Planned Development   X                    X                 X
Reasonable            X                    X [4]             .
Accommodation
Special Use Permit    X                    X                 X
UDO Text Amendment    X                    .                 .
Variance              X                    X                 X
Vested Rights         X                    X                 .
Determination
Zoning Map Amendment  X                    X                 X
 
 
NOTES:
[1] Published notice shall be provided once a week for two successive calendar
weeks, with the first notice published between 10 and 25 days before the public
hearing.
[2] Mailed notice shall be provided to the applicant, affected landowners, and
landowners of abutting land between 10 and 25 days before the public hearing.
[3] Posted notice shall be provided between 10 and 25 days before the public
hearing.
[4] Mailed notice shall only be required in cases where an appeal pertains to a
particular lot or site.
 
   D.   Published Notice Requirements.
      1.   When the provisions of Section 160D-601 of the North Carolina
General Statutes require that public notice be published, the designated review
authority shall publish a notice in a newspaper that is regularly published at
least one time per week and that has general circulation in the Town.
      2.   The content and form of the notice shall comply with the applicable
requirements in the North Carolina General Statutes.
   E.   Mailed Notice Requirements. When the provisions of Section 160D-602(a)
of the North Carolina General Statutes require that public notice be mailed,
the designated review authority shall provide the required mailed public notice
in accordance with the following:
      1.   Mailed notice specified in
Table 2.3.6.C, Public Notification Requirements, shall be mailed to:
         a.   The applicant, if different from the landowner; and
         b.   All landowners within 750 feet of the outer boundaries of the
subject parcel or parcels whose address is known by reference to the latest
county tax listing.
      2.   Notice shall be deemed mailed by its deposit in the United States
first class mail, properly addressed, postage paid. The content and form of the
notice shall comply with Section
2.3.6.G, Notice Content, and Section 160D-602(a) of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
      3.   A copy of the mailed notice shall be maintained in the offices of
the designated review authority for public inspection during normal business
hours.
      4.   Mailed notice shall not be required when a zoning map amendment
includes more than 50 lots or tracts owned by at least 50 different landowners,
provided the Town publishes a map (occupying at least ½ of a newspaper page)
showing the boundaries of the affected area in a newspaper of general
circulation once a week for two successive calendar weeks between 10 days and
25 days before the public hearing. Affected landowners residing outside the
newspaper circulation area shall be notified via first class mail pursuant to
Section
2.3.6.E, Mailed Notice Requirements.
   F.   Posted Notice Requirements. When the provisions of Section 160D-602(c)
of the North Carolina General Statutes require that public notice be posted,
the Planning Director shall provide the required posted public notice in
accordance with the following:
      1.   A sign (or signs) shall be placed on the subject property in a
conspicuous location so as to be clearly visible to the traveled portion(s) of
the respective street(s). Where the land subject to the notice does not have
frontage on a public street, the sign shall be erected on the nearest street
right-of-way.
      2.   The content and form of the notice shall comply with Section
2.3.6.G, Notice Content, and Section 160D-602(c) of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
   G.   Notice Content. Unless expressly indicated otherwise by the North
Carolina General Statutes, all notices by mail or publication shall:
      1.   Identify the date, time, and place of the public hearing;
      2.   Describe the land involved by county parcel identification number
(PIN), street address, or by its relationship to a fronting street and the
nearest cross street (if applicable);
      3.   Describe the nature and scope of the proposed development or action;
and
      4.   Identify the means to contact a Town official for further
information.
   H.   Constructive Notice.
      1.   Minor defects in any notice shall not impair the notice or
invalidate proceedings if a bona fide attempt is made to comply with applicable
notice requirements. Minor defects in notice may include, but are not limited
to:
         a.   Errors such as landowner name, title, or address existing in the
county tax listing; or
         b.   Typographical or grammatical errors that do not impede
communication of the notice to affected parties.
      2.   Failure of a party to receive written notice shall not invalidate
subsequent action. A posted notice that becomes no longer visible due to
weather, theft, or other unintended circumstances shall not invalidate
proceedings if a bona fide attempt is made to comply with applicable posted
notice requirements. In all cases, however, the requirements for the timing of
the notice and for specifying the time, date, and place of a public hearing and
the location of the subject property shall be strictly adhered to.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021; Ord. 2023-09,
passed 11-7-2022)
2.3.7.   Public Hearings and Meetings
   A.   Joint Public Hearings.
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures, identifies the kinds of development
applications subject to a joint legislative public hearing by the Board of
Commissioners and the Planning Board, which shall be conducted in accordance
with the following requirements:
      1.   Procedure.
         a.   Joint legislative public hearings shall not be conducted until
after provision of required public notification in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice.
         b.   The joint legislative public hearing shall be open to the public
and shall be conducted in accordance with the Board of Commissioner's adopted
rules of procedure for public hearings.
         c.   Attendees shall be afforded the opportunity to comment during a
joint public hearing, as authorized in the adopted rules of procedure.
      2.   Record.
         a.   A recording may be made of all joint public hearings and the
recordings shall be maintained in accordance with Town policy.
         b.   Accurate minutes shall also be kept of all proceedings, but a
transcript need not be made.
   B.   Legislative Public Hearings.
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures, identifies the kinds of development
applications decided following completion of a legislative public hearing,
which shall be conducted in accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   Procedure.
         a.   Legislative public hearings shall not be conducted until after
provision of required public notification in accordance with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice.
         b.   The legislative public hearing shall be open to the public and
shall be conducted in accordance with the review authority's adopted rules of
procedure for public hearings.
         c.   Attendees shall be afforded the opportunity to comment during a
public hearing, as authorized in the adopted rules of procedure.
      2.   Voting.
         a.   The Board of Commissioners shall consider the application,
relevant support materials, staff report, any recommendations, and public
comments. After the conclusion of the public hearing, it shall make one of the
decisions authorized for the particular type of application based on the review
standards applicable to the application type, as set forth in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures.
         b.   A Board of Commissioners member shall not vote on an application
where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member in
accordance with Section 160D-109 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
         c.   A decision of the Board of Commissioners on an application shall
be decided by a simple majority of the Board of Commissioners, excluding any
members who are recused from voting due to a conflict of interest.
      3.   Application Revision.
         a.   An applicant may revise an application during a public hearing in
response to recommendations or suggestions of the Board of Commissioners.
         b.   The Board of Commissioners may approve an application modified
during a public hearing provided that all changes are properly identified in
the motion of approval by the Board of Commissioners.
         c.   In cases where an application has been modified during a public
hearing, the applicant shall submit any necessary site plans, plats, or other
construction documents depicting the modification to the appropriate Town staff
for consideration and approval prior to issuance of any development permit
approvals.
      4.   Remand.
         a.   The Board of Commissioners may delay a decision on the
application if additional information is requested of the applicant.
         b.   The Board of Commissioners may remand the application to the
Planning Board and/or Town staff for further consideration of new information
or specified issues or concerns, if appropriate.
      5.   Record.
         a.   A recording may be made of all public hearings and the recordings
shall be maintained in accordance with town policy.
         b.   Accurate minutes shall also be kept of all proceedings, but a
transcript need not be made.
   C.   Quasi-Judicial Public Hearings.
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures, identifies the kinds of development
applications decided following a quasi-judicial public hearing, which shall be
conducted in accordance with G.S. 160D-406, the review authority's rules of
procedure, and the following requirements:
      1.   Notice Required. Quasi-judicial public hearings shall not be
conducted until after provision of required public notification in accordance
with Section
2.3.6, Public Notice.
      2.   Opportunity to Present Testimony and Evidence.
         a.   Parties with standing may participate fully in the evidentiary
hearing, including presenting evidence, cross-examining witnesses, objecting to
evidence, and making legal arguments;
         b.   Non-parties may present competent material, and substantial
evidence that is not repetitive subject to the approval of the chairperson.
      3.   Limitation on Evidence.
         a.   The Chair or other presiding officer may limit or exclude
incompetent evidence, immaterial evidence, repetitive evidence, and personal
attacks.
         b.   Decisions shall not be based upon hearsay evidence though such
evidence may be entered into the record.
      4.   Ex Parte Communication. Ex parte communications between an applicant
or an affected party and a member of the decision-making body are prohibited.
If it occurs, it shall be disclosed during the quasi-judicial public hearing.
      5.   Voting.
         a.   Generally. The review authority shall consider the application,
relevant support materials, staff report, any recommendations, and public
comments. After the conclusion of the public hearing, it shall make one of the
decisions authorized for the particular type of application based on the review
standards applicable to the application type, as set forth in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures.
         b.   Clearly State Factors for Decision. Unless stated otherwise in
this Ordinance, the decision shall clearly state the factors considered in
making the decision and the basis or rationale for the decision.
         c.   Conflicts of Interest.
            i.   A review authority member shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to:
               1.   A member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter
that is not susceptible to change;
               2.   An undisclosed ex parte communication;
               3.   A close family, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person; or
               4.   A financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
            ii.   If an objection is raised to a member's participation and
that member does not recuse themselves, the remaining members shall, by
majority vote, rule on the objection.
      6.   Application Revision.
         a.   An applicant may revise an application during a public hearing in
response to recommendations or suggestions of the review authority.
         b.   The review authority may approve an application modified during a
public hearing provided all changes are properly identified in the motion of
approval by the review authority.
         c.   In cases where an application has been modified during a public
hearing, the applicant shall submit any necessary site plans, plats, or other
construction documents depicting the modification to the appropriate Town staff
prior to issuance of any development permit approvals.
      7.   Delay of Decision. The review authority may delay a decision on the
application if additional information is requested of the applicant.
      8.   Record.
         a.   A recording may be made of all public hearings and the recordings
shall be maintained in accordance with Town policy.
         b.   Accurate minutes shall also be kept of all proceedings, but a
transcript need not be made.
   D.   Public Meetings.
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures, identifies the kinds of development
applications subject to a required public meeting, which shall be conducted in
accordance with the review authority's rules of procedure and the following
requirements:
      1.   Procedure.
         a.   The public meeting shall be open to the public and shall be
conducted in accordance with the review authority's adopted rules of procedure
for public meetings.
         b.   There is no requirement to allow public comment or testimony
during a public meeting, though it may be provided at the Chair or other
presiding officer's discretion.
      2.   Voting.
         a.   A decision of a review authority shall be decided by a simple
majority of the members present and voting.
         b.   A review authority member shall recuse themselves from voting on
an application where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, or readily identifiable financial impact
on them or a member of their immediate family.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
2.3.8.   Conditions of Approval
   A.   Unless expressly authorized in Section
2.2, Application Review Procedures, conditions of approval for conditional
rezonings, planned developments, and other quasi-judicial applications shall be
limited to those deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the review
standards for the particular type of application, or to prevent or minimize
adverse effects from the proposed development on surrounding lands.
   B.   All conditions of approval shall be related in both type and amount to
the anticipated impacts of the proposed development on the public and
surrounding development.
   C.   All conditions of approval shall be expressly set forth in the notice
of decision or development permit approval.
   D.   Conditions of approval associated with a conditional rezoning may be
proposed by the applicant, Town staff, the Planning Board, or the Board of
Commissioners, but only those conditions mutually approved by the Board of
Commissioners and the applicant may be included as part of the application
approval.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.3.9.   Notification of Decision
Except for building permits, certificates of occupancy, and zoning compliance
permits, all decisions on applications filed under this Ordinance shall be in
writing, and configured in accordance with the following:
   A.   Content. The notification of decision on an application shall be issued
in the name of the applicant or applicant's agent, as appropriate, and shall
identify the following:
      1.   The land or matter subject to the application;
      2.   A reference to any approved plans, as appropriate;
      3.   The approved use(s), if any; and
      4.   Any conditions of approval or other applicable requirements.
   B.   Timing. Except where otherwise stated in this Ordinance, the Planning
Director shall provide the applicant written notification of a decision or
action within 30 days after a final decision on a development application.
   C.   Copy of Decision. In addition to providing notification of a decision
on an application to an applicant, the Planning Director shall make a copy of
the decision available to the public in the offices of the Planning Department
during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.3.10.   Effect
   A.   Effect. Approval of a development application in accordance with this
Ordinance authorizes only the particular use, plan for development, or other
specific activity approved.
   B.   Permit Prerequisite. In the event a permit or development approval is a
prerequisite to another permit or development approval (e.g., administrative
adjustment or variance approval prior to a site plan approval), development may
not take place until all prerequisite approvals are obtained. Approval of one
development application does not guarantee approval of any subsequent
development application.
   C.   Transfer.
      1.   Except when otherwise specified, development approvals may be
transferred from one owner to another, provided the land, structure, or use
type continues to be used for the same purpose for which the approval was
granted.
      2.   The terms, requirements, and conditions of the approval shall
continue to apply to all subsequent owners or interests.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
   2.3.11.   Continuance, Postponement, and Withdrawal
   An applicant may request that a review authority's consideration of a
development application be continued, postponed, or withdrawn by submitting a
written request to the appropriate review authority.
   A.   Procedure for Applications Subject to a Public Hearing.
      1.   In cases where an applicant seeks a continuance or postponement of
an application subject to a public hearing, but public notification of the
hearing has not yet been provided, the Planning Director shall consider and
decide the request.
      2.   If public notification of the pending public hearing has been
provided in accordance with this Ordinance, the request for continuance or
postponement shall be placed on the public hearing agenda and be considered by
the review authority. Additional public notification may be required.
      3.   A request for continuance or postponement may be approved in cases
where the applicant needs additional time to prepare evidence, secure approval
from outside agencies, bring the application into closer alignment with the
Town's adopted policy guidance or the requirements of this Ordinance, or for
good cause, as determined by the review authority.
   B.   Withdrawal.
      1.   An applicant may withdraw an application at any time.
      2.   If an applicant withdraws an application for the same land after
public notification two times within a single calendar year, the same
application may not be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of
the second withdrawal.
      3.   Application fees for withdrawn applications shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
2.3.12.   Limitation on Subsequent Similar Applications
   A.   Application Denied. If a development application requiring a public
hearing is denied, no application proposing the same or similar development on
all or part of the same site shall be submitted within one year after the date
of denial unless the review authority approves a reduction in this time limit
in accordance with subsection (B) below. For the purposes of this section, "the
same or similar development" shall mean:
      1.   The same use type(s) in the same approximate location(s) as the
denied application; or
      2.   The same use type(s) in the same approximate building configuration
(e.g., building height, floor area, massing) as the denied application.
   B.   Reduction in Time Limit. The owner of land subject to this subsection,
or the owner's authorized agent, may submit a written request for reduction of
the time limit, along with a fee to defray the cost of processing the request,
to the Planning Director, who shall transmit the request to the review
authority. The review authority may grant the request only on a finding by two-
thirds of its membership that the owner or agent has demonstrated that:
      1.   There is a substantial change in circumstances relevant to the
issues or facts considered during review of the prior application that might
reasonably affect the review authority's application of the relevant review
standards to the development proposed in the new application; or
      2.   New or additional information is available that was not available at
the time of review of the prior application and that might reasonably affect
the review authority's application of the relevant review standards to the
development proposed in the new application; or
      3.   The new application proposed to be submitted is materially different
from the prior application; or
      4.   The final decision on the prior application was based on a material
mistake of fact.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 3 - DISTRICTS
Article - Districts
3.1.   Introductory Provisions
3.1.1.   Compliance with District Standards Required
3.1.2.   Types of Zoning Districts
3.1.3.   Zoning Districts Established
3.1.4.   Organization of These Zoning District Standards
3.1.5.   Generally Applicable Dimensional Standards
3.2.   Official Zoning Map
3.2.1.   Generally
3.2.2.   Incorporated by Reference
3.2.3.   Interpretation of Official Zoning Map Boundaries
3.2.4.   Changes to Official Zoning Map
3.3.   General Residential Zoning Districts
3.3.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
3.3.2.   Residential Watershed (R1) District
3.3.3.   Residential Suburban (R2) District
3.3.4.   Residential Neighborhood (R4) District
3.3.5.   Residential Urban (R6) District
3.3.6.   Residential Multi-Family (RMF) District
3.4.   General Commercial Zoning Districts
3.4.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
3.4.2.   Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District
3.4.3.   General Commercial (GC) District
3.4.4.   Heavy Commercial (HC) District
3.4.5.   Light Industrial (LI) District
3.4.6.   Campus Industrial (CI) District
3.4.7.   Heavy Industrial (HI) District
3.5.   General Mixed Use Zoning Districts
3.5.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
3.5.2.   Office Institutional (OI) District
3.5.3.   Downtown Core (DTC) District
3.5.4.   Downtown Periphery (DTP) District
3.5.5.   Planned Development (PD) District
3.6.   Conditional Districts
3.6.1.   Purpose and Intent
3.6.2.   Creation
3.6.3.   Districts Established
3.6.4.   Conditions, Generally
3.6.5.   Limitations on Conditions
3.6.6.   Development Concept Required
3.6.7.   Compliance with Subdivision Requirements
3.6.8.   Relationship to Overlay District Standards
3.7.   Special Use Districts
3.7.1.   Purpose and Intent
3.7.2.   Distinguished From General or Conditional Zoning Districts
3.7.3.   Districts Established
3.7.4.   Revision or Amendment
3.7.5.   Additional Standards for the CA-SUD District
3.8.   Overlay Zoning Districts
3.8.1.   Generally
3.8.2.   Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District
3.8.3.   Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District
3.8.4.   Local Historic Overlay (LHO) District
3.8.5.   Manufactured Home Overlay (MHO) District
3.1.   INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
3.1.1.   Compliance with District Standards Required
Land within the Town's planning jurisdiction as identified in Section
1.5, Applicability, shall not be developed except in accordance with the
applicable zoning district regulations of this article and the Official Zoning
Map.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.1.2.   Types of Zoning Districts
All land within the Town's planning jurisdiction shall be located in one or
more of the following types of zoning districts:
   A.   All land subject to these standards shall be classified into one of the
"general," "conditional," or "special use" zoning districts identified in
Table 3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established.
   B.   Land located in any general, conditional, or special use zoning
district may also be classified into one or more "overlay" zoning districts.
   C.   General, conditional, special use, and overlay zoning districts shall
be depicted on the Town's Official Zoning Map in accordance with Section
3.1.4.A, Official Zoning Map.
   D.   In cases where land is within an overlay zoning district, the standards
in the overlay zoning district shall apply in addition to the standards
governing development in the underlying general, conditional, or special use
zoning district.
   E.   Land in the Town's planning jurisdiction shall be classified or
reclassified into a general, conditional, or overlay zoning district only in
accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment, Section
2.2.13, Planned Development, or Section
2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning, as appropriate.
   F.   Land in the Town's planning jurisdiction may not be reclassified into a
special use zoning district. Land designated as a special use district may only
be reclassified as a general or conditional zoning district.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.1.3.   Zoning Districts Established
   A.   
Table 3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established, sets out the general, conditional,
and special use zoning districts established by this Ordinance.
   B.   General zoning districts are grouped into Residential, Commercial, and
Mixed Use District categories.
Table 3.1.3: Zoning Districts Established
Zoning District Abbreviations Zoning District Name
Table 3.1.3: Zoning Districts Established
Zoning District Abbreviations Zoning District Name
General Zoning Districts
Residential Districts
R1                            Residential Watershed
R2                            Residential Suburban
R4                            Residential Neighborhood
R6                            Residential Urban
RMF                           Residential Multi-Family
Commercial Districts
NC                            Neighborhood Commercial
GC                            General Commercial
HC                            Heavy Commercial
LI                            Light Industrial
CI                            Industrial Campus
HI                            Heavy Industrial
Mixed Use Districts
OI                            Office and Institutional
DTP                           Downtown Periphery
DTC                           Downtown Core
PD                            Planned Development
Conditional Zoning Districts
R1-C                          Residential Watershed - Conditional
R2-C                          Residential Suburban - Conditional
R4-C                          Residential Neighborhood - Conditional
R6-C                          Residential Urban - Conditional
RMF-C                         Residential Multi-Family - Conditional
NC-C                          Neighborhood Commercial - Conditional
 
Table 3.1.3: Zoning Districts Established
Zoning District Abbreviations Zoning District Name
Table 3.1.3: Zoning Districts Established
Zoning District Abbreviations Zoning District Name
GC-C                          General Commercial - Conditional
HC-C                          Heavy Commercial - Conditional
LI-C                          Light Industrial - Conditional
CI-C                          Campus Industrial - Conditional
HI-C                          Heavy Industrial - Conditional
OI-C                          Office and Institutional - Conditional
DTP-C                         Downtown Periphery - Conditional
DTC-C                         Downtown Core - Conditional
Special Use Zoning Districts
R-13SUD                       Residential 13-Special Use
CA-SUD                        Commercial Amusement-Special Use
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.1.4.   Organization of These Zoning District Standards
   A.   Official Zoning Map. Section
3.1.4.A, Official Zoning Map, establishes the Official Zoning Map and describes
how it is updated and interpreted.
   B.   General Zoning Districts.
      1.   Sections
3.3.1,
3.4.1, and
3.5.1, Summary Purpose and Intent Statements, set out a series of purpose and
intent statements broadly applicable to each individual district type in the
Residential, Commercial, and Mixed Use districts.
      2.   Sections
3.3 through
3.5 include the detailed purpose statement dimensional standards, and example
images for each general zoning district listed in
Table 3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established.
      3.   The black lettered circles included in each dimensional standards
table correspond to the black lettered circles in the dimensional and
development configuration example images for the same zoning district.
      4.   The development, lot pattern, dimensional, and lot configuration
example diagrams are for illustrative purposes only. In cases where an image
conflicts
with the text for the district or some other portion of this Ordinance, the
text, not the illustration, shall control.
      5.   The range of allowable uses for each zoning district is identified
in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table.
      6.   Some zoning districts include district-specific standards that apply
to all lands in the particular zoning district classification.
   C.   Conditional Zoning Districts. Section
3.6, Conditional Districts, sets out the standards applicable to the
conditional zoning districts listed in
Table 3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established.
   D.   Special Use Zoning Districts. The special use zoning districts are
established in Section
3.7, Special Use Districts. This section also includes the district-specific
standards for each special use district.
   E.   Overlay Zoning Districts. The overlay zoning districts are established
in Section
3.8. This section also includes the district-specific standards for each
overlay district.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.1.5.   Generally Applicable Dimensional Standards
In addition to the dimensional standards in each individual zoning district the
following bulk and dimensional standards shall apply to all development in the
Town's planning jurisdiction.
   A.   Maximum Density may be Increased. Unless otherwise indicated in this
Ordinance, the maximum density for a general or conditional zoning district may
be increased beyond the amount listed in Sections
3.3 through 0 of this Ordinance in cases where:
      1.   Single-family detached, attached, or duplex dwellings are configured
in accordance with the provisions in Section
5.2, Design Guidelines; and
      2.   Any form of allowable residential development is configured in
accordance with the standards in Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives.
   B.   Maximum Height may be Increased. Unless otherwise indicated in this
Ordinance, the maximum height for a general or conditional zoning district may
be increased beyond the amount listed in Sections
3.3 through 0 of this Ordinance in cases where development is configured in
accordance with the standards in Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives.
   C.   Reductions Prohibited. Except where otherwise authorized by this
Ordinance:
      1.   Lots created after January 1, 2020 shall meet the minimum lot
dimensional requirements for the district where located.
      2.   No lot shall be reduced in area below the minimum requirements for
the district where located except as part of a planned development, conditional
rezoning application, or in recognition of the provision of sustainable
development features in accordance with Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives.
   D.   Required Yards.
      1.   The land area between a lot line and the boundary of a required
setback is considered as a required yard.
      2.   The location of front (or street), side, or rear yards on
irregularly-shaped lots shall be determined by the Planning Director in
accordance with Section
9.3, Rules of Measurement. Wherever possible, the Planning Director shall
interpret these boundaries in ways that minimize nonconformities.
      3.   Except where otherwise provided in Section
9.3.5, Setback Encroachments, required yards shall not be subject to
encroachment by a building, structure, or outdoor use area.
   E.   Setbacks From Streets. No building or structure shall be located closer
to any public street right-of-way or existing private street edge than the
minimum setback line established by this Ordinance.
   F.   Double Counting of Required Areas. No land area or other required space
counted as part of a required yard, setback, lot area, or similar feature on
one lot may be simultaneously counted towards the requirements on another lot.
   G.   Exceeding Maximum Limitations. No building or development shall exceed
the maximum height limit, impervious surface limitation, maximum parking
requirement, or residential density for the zoning district where located,
unless allowed in accordance with this Ordinance.
   H.   Failure to Meet Minimum Requirements. No lot shall be altered in a
manner that results in creation of a nonconformity except where authorized by
this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.2   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
3.2.1.   Generally
   A.   The Official Zoning Map designates the location and boundaries of the
general, conditional, special use, and overlay zoning districts established in
this Ordinance.
   B.   The Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) shall designate the location and
boundaries of the FHO district, as amended by any associated Flood Insurance
Studies (FIS).
   C.   The Official Zoning Map shall be maintained in a digital format and
paper copies shall be kept on file in the Planning Department and are available
for public inspection during normal business hours.
   D.   The digital version of the Official Zoning Map maintained in the
offices of the Planning Department shall be the final authority as to the
status of the current zoning district classification of land in the Town's
planning jurisdiction, and shall only be amended in accordance with Section
2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning, Section
2.2.13, Planned Development, or Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment, as appropriate.
   E.   The Planning Director shall maintain digital copies of superseded
versions of the Official Zoning Map for historical reference, as appropriate.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.2.2.   Incorporated by Reference
   A.   The Official Zoning Map, as amended, is hereby incorporated by
reference herein and made part of this Ordinance.
   B.   The Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) prepared by FEMA and the
associated Flood Insurance Study (FIS) are hereby incorporated by reference
herein and made part of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.2.3.   Interpretation of Official Zoning Map Boundaries
The Planning Director shall be responsible for determination of boundaries on
the Official Zoning Map in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.12, Interpretation, and the following standards:
   A.   Boundaries shown as approximately following a utility line or a street,
alley, railroad, or other public accessway shall be interpreted as following
the centerline of the right- of-way or easement for the utility line or
accessway.
   B.   If a street, alley, railroad, or utility easement forming the boundary
between two separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from dedication,
the district boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of the
abandoned or vacated roadbed or utility easement.
   C.   Boundaries shown as approximately following a lot line shall be
interpreted as following the lot line as it existed when the boundary was
established. If a subsequent minor adjustment (such as from settlement of a
boundary dispute or overlap) results in the lot line moving 10 feet or less,
the zoning boundary shall be interpreted as moving with the lot line.
   D.   Boundaries shown as approximately following a river, stream, canal,
lake, or other watercourse shall be interpreted as following the centerline of
the watercourse as it actually exists, and as moving with that centerline to
the extent the watercourse moves as a result of natural processes (flooding,
erosion, sedimentation, etc.).
   E.   Boundaries shown parallel to or as extensions of features indicated in
this subsection shall be interpreted as such.
   F.   Boundaries shown as following the boundary of the Town limits shall be
interpreted as following the boundary of municipal incorporation.
   G.   Where the actual location of existing physical or natural features vary
from that shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances that are
not covered by this subsection, the Planning Director shall have the authority
to determine the district boundaries (see Section
2.2.12, Interpretation).
   H.   Wherever a single lot is located within two or more different zoning
districts, each portion of the lot shall be subject to all the regulations
applicable to the zoning district where it is located.
   I.   If the specific location of a depicted boundary cannot be determined
from application of the above standards, it shall be determined by using the
Official Zoning Map's scale to determine the boundary's distance from other
features shown on the map.
   J.   Interpretations of the Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) district boundary
shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator, in accordance with the standards
in Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District.
   K.   In the case of FHO district boundaries, the FEMA work maps, if
available, shall be used for scaling.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.2.4. Changes to Official Zoning Map
   A.   Changes made in zoning district boundaries on the Official Zoning Map
shall be considered an amendment to this Ordinance.
   B.   Changes to the Official Zoning Map approved by the Board of
Commissioners shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map by the Planning
Director promptly after the approval.
   C.   Where the ordinance enacting a zoning district boundary change contains
wording explaining or clarifying the location of the new boundary, the Planning
Director shall enter the boundary on the Official Zoning Map in accordance with
the ordinance wording.
   D.   Upon entering the most recently-approved amendment on the Official
Zoning Map, the Planning Director shall also change the date of the map to
indicate the date of its latest revision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.3   GENERAL RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
3.3.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
The residential zoning districts are proposed to provide a comfortable,
healthy, safe, and pleasant environment in which to live and recreate. More
specifically, they are intended to:
   A.   Provide appropriately located lands for residential development that
are consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the Town's adopted
policy guidance;
   B.   Ensure adequate light, air, privacy, and open space areas for each
dwelling, and protect residents from the negative effects of noise, excessive
population density, traffic congestion, flooding, and other significant adverse
environmental impacts;
   C.   Protect residential areas from fires, explosions, toxic fumes and
substances, and other public safety hazards;
   D.   Provide for residential housing choice, affordability, and diversity
with varying housing densities, types, and designs, including accessory
dwelling units;
   E.   Provide for safe and efficient vehicular access and circulation and
promote bicycle- and pedestrian-friendly neighborhoods;
   F.   Provide safe and efficient access to public transit facilities and
alternative forms of transportation, like greenways;
   G.   Provide for public services and facilities needed to serve residential
areas and accommodate public and low intensity neighborhood-serving
nonresidential uses in the higher density residential districts while
protecting residential areas from incompatible nonresidential development;
   H.   Create neighborhoods and preserve existing "small-town" community
character while accommodating new development and redevelopment consistent with
the Town's goals and objectives; and
   I.   Preserve the unique character and historic resources of the traditional
neighborhoods and the community.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.3.2.   Residential Watershed (R1) District
   A.   District Character. The Residential Watershed (R1) district is
established in accordance with Section 143-214.5 of the North Carolina General
Statutes for the purposes of protecting water quality within the Little River
Water Supply Watershed. The R1 district has a rural character comprised of
single-family detached dwellings at very low densities, farms, agricultural
uses, and vacant lands generally located at the edges of the Town's planning
jurisdiction. Residential densities are very low at one unit an acre or less,
and impervious surfaces are limited in order to minimize stormwater runoff and
degraded drinking water quality. Conservation subdivisions that result in large
portions of land remaining undeveloped or under agricultural use are
encouraged, provided they do not negatively impact the rural aesthetics of the
district. Land uses or site features that degrade water quality such as
improperly functioning on-site wastewater disposal systems, inadequate erosion
control measures, or the deposition of waste are prohibited.
   B.   Example of Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards.
Standard Requirements [1]
         Within Critical Areas Within Balance Areas Conservation Subdivision
                     Requirements [1]
Standard             Within Critical Within Balance Areas Conservation
                     Areas                                Subdivision
Minimum Development  None            None                 10
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential                                       As allowed within
Density (units/acre) 0.5             1                    critical or balance
[2]                                                       areas
Minimum Lot Area     80,000          40,000               6,500
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width    70              70                   70
(linear feet)
Maximum Built-Upon                                        As allowed within
Area (% of lot area) 6               12 [3] [4]           critical or balance
                                                          areas [3] [4]
Minimum Open Space
Set- Aside (% of     10              10                   50 [5]
development size)
Minimum Street       20              20                   20
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback 15              15                   5
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback 25              25                   5
(feet)
Maximum Building     35              35                   35
Height (feet)
NOTES:
[1] Land area within the R1 district shall be classified as Critical Area or
Balance Area in accordance with the Little River Water Supply Watershed
regulations established by the North Carolina Environmental Management
Commission.
[2] Maximum residential density may not be increased through compliance with
residential design guidelines or incorporation of sustainable development
features.
[3] Built-upon area may be configured so that a maximum of 10% of the
development's total acreage is 70% built upon. Built-upon area shall include
the total footprint of all proposed principal and accessory structures as a
percentage of the total acreage of the tract being developed, excluding the
footprint associated with lawfully established development in place prior to
May 4, 2009.
[4] Development using the "10/70" option described in Note [2] shall include
stormwater control measures to minimize concentrated stormwater flow and to
minimize impact to receiving waters. Stormwater control measures shall be
reviewed and approved by the Town and Wake County.
[5] Development using the "10/70" option described in Note [2] shall set
aside all land not used for building lots or streets as open space. Nothing
shall prohibit farming or the placement of potable water or septic facilities
within open space set-aside areas.
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.jpg]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-80.jpg]  [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
82.png]
   E.   District-Specific Standards. The following standards shall apply to all
lands within the Residential Watershed (R1) district:
      1.   Compliance with Little River Reservoir Water Supply Watershed
Interlocal Agreement. Land within the R1 district shall comply with the
provisions in the Little River Reservoir Water Supply Watershed Interlocal
Agreement.
      2.   Exemption of Existing Development.
         a.   Lawfully established development in existence prior to May 4,
2009 shall be exempted from these standards, and shall not be included within
calculations of built-upon area.
         b.   Additions to existing development exempted from these standards
taking place after May 4, 2009 shall be subject to these provisions, and shall
be included within calculations of built-upon area.
      3.   Zoning Map Amendment Prohibited.
         a.   Land located within the Little River Water Supply Watershed, as
designated by the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission, shall not
be rezoned to a different general zoning district designation.
         b.   Nothing shall limit the establishment of a Residential Watershed
Conditional (R1-C) district, provided that all conditions place greater
restrictions on proposed development then those applied to the general
Residential Watershed (R1) district.
      4.   Prohibited Land Uses. The following uses shall be prohibited within
the land area occupied by the R1 zoning district:
         a.   Sites for land application of residuals or petroleum-contaminated
soils;
         b.   Landfills, incinerators, or waste processing facilities; or
         c.   Solid waste management facilities.
      5.   Watershed Buffer Required.
         a.   All development within the R1 district shall maintain a 50-foot-
wide vegetated buffer along all sides of any perennial waters indicated on the
most recent USGS 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps, or in other
Town-adopted studies.
         b.   Development shall be generally prohibited within watershed
buffers, but street crossings and greenways trails may be permitted where no
alternative exists. In cases where street crossings or greenway trails are
located within the buffer, they shall direct stormwater runoff away from
receiving waters and shall include stormwater control measures to minimize
concentrated stormwater flow and minimize impacts to receiving waters.
      6.   Streets.
         a.   Streets shall be located outside of watershed critical areas and
required watershed buffers, to the maximum extent practicable.
         b.   In cases where streets must be located within a watershed
critical area or watershed buffer, streets shall be designed and constructed to
direct stormwater runoff away from receiving waters and shall include
stormwater control measures to minimize concentrated stormwater flow and
minimize impacts to receiving waters.
      7.   Public Water and Sewer. Development within the R1 district shall not
be served by public water or sanitary sewer systems.
      8.   Stormwater Control Measures. Development required to provide
stormwater control measures shall ensure they are configured to divert
stormwater runoff away from surface waters and incorporate best management
practices to minimize water quality impacts.
      9.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control. Development disturbing more than
one acre of land area shall be subject to an approved erosion and sedimentation
control plan (see Section
6.9, Soil Erosion & Sedimentation).
      10.   Enforcement. Development that violates these standards shall be
subject to the provisions in
Article 8: Enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.3.3.   Residential Suburban (R2) District
   A.   District Character. The Residential Suburban (R2) district has a
suburban character typically comprised of single-family detached residential
uses in somewhat peripheral locations of the Town's planning jurisdiction.
Allowable residential densities are around two units an acre, but may be
increased based on design quality or open space provision. Lot sizes are
generally larger than in urban portions of the Town, and tend to be landscaped
or include undisturbed vegetation. The establishment of small- lot/small-home
developments like conservation subdivisions, bungalow courts, and pocket
neighborhoods are encouraged when compatible with their surroundings. Most uses
are not served by public potable water and sanitary wastewater services, though
neighborhood-scale water and wastewater facilities may be present. Most
buildings are low-rise in height, or between one and three stories tall. Off-
street parking is common. Neighborhood-scale or low-intensity nonresidential
and institutional uses like schools, religious institutions, parks, and minor
utility uses are allowed, provided they do not detract from the quiet,
residential character of the district.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards - Residential.
                    Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/Pocket
 Traditional Format Residential Design Subdivision  Neighborhood
                    Guidelines
                  Traditional Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/
                  Format      Residential Design Subdivision  Pocket
                              Guidelines                      Neighborhood
Single-Family Detached Development
Minimum
Development Size  N/A         N/A                10           3 (max. size)
(acres)
Maximum
Residential       1.45        2                  2            3
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum Lot Area  30,000      21,780             6,000        6,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width 150         150                30           30
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of    30          35                 75           65
lot area)
Minimum Street    50; may be reduced to 35
Setback (feet)    measured to front edge of a    20           20; 0 from alley
                  covered porch
Minimum Side      15          15                 5            5/side; 15 total
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear      25          25                 5            15
Setback (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/     35/3        35/3               35/3         35/3
stories)
Duplex Development
Maximum
Residential       2           2.5
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum Lot Area  21,780/unit 17,400/unit
(square feet)                                    N/A          N/A
Minimum Lot Width 150         150
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of    30          35
lot area)
Minimum Street    50; may be reduced to 35
Setback (feet)    measured to front edge of a
                  covered porch
Minimum Side      15          15
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear      25          25
Setback (feet)                                   N/A          N/A
Maximum Building
Height (feet/     35/3        35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal 15          15
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Non-Residential.
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)                                     20,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)                                    100
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)                               45
Minimum Street Setback (feet)                                      50
Minimum Side Setback (feet)                                        15
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)                                        25
Maximum Building Height (feet)                                     35/2
Minimum Spacing Between Principal Buildings on the Same Lot (feet) 15
 
   E.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-86.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-88.jpg]  [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
90.png]
   F.   District-specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.3.4   Residential Neighborhood (R4) District
   A.   The Residential Neighborhood (R4) district has a neighborhood-scale or
character with individual developments arranged along major transportation
corridors within the Town's corporate limits. The district allows a wide
variety of dwelling unit types at moderate densities of around three units per
acre, though densities may be increased based on design quality or open space
provision. Residential neighborhoods include a variety of different lot sizes
and housing types to promote diverse housing options for Town residents (though
some require approval of special use permits). Landscaping and careful siting
helps preserve compatibility between different housing types located adjacent
to one another. Residential and nonresidential uses are typically served by
public potable water and sanitary wastewater services, and there is a fine-
grained network of greenways and sidewalks that allow for mobility within and
between neighborhoods. Residential uses maintain modest building heights of
between one and three stories. Neighborhood-scale or low-intensity
nonresidential and institutional uses like schools, religious institutions,
parks, and minor utility uses are permitted to support neighborhood character
and convenience.
   B.   Example of Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-92.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards - Residential.
                    Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/Pocket
 Traditional Format Residential Design Subdivision  Neighborhood
                    Guidelines
                  Traditional Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/
                  Format      Residential Design Subdivision  Pocket
                              Guidelines                      Neighborhood
Single-Family Detached Development
Minimum
Development Size  N/A         N/A                10           3 (max. size)
(acres)
Maximum
Residential       4.35        5                  4            4
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum Lot Area  10,000      8,700              6,000        6,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width 75          70                 30           30
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of    30          35                 75           65
lot area)
Minimum Street    30; may be reduced to 20
Setback (feet)    measured to front edge of a    20           20; 0 from alley
                  covered porch
Minimum Side      10          10                 5            5/side
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear      25          25                 5            15
Setback (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/     35/3        35/3               35/3         35/3
stories)
 
                    Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/Pocket
 Traditional Format Residential Design Subdivision  Neighborhood
                    Guidelines
                  Traditional Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/
                  Format      Residential Design Subdivision  Pocket
                              Guidelines                      Neighborhood
Duplex Development
Maximum
Residential       3.35        4
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum Lot Area  13,000/unit 10,890/unit
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width 100         100
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of    30          35
lot area)
Minimum Street    30; may be reduced to 20
Setback (feet)    measured to front edge of a    N/A          N/A
                  covered porch
Minimum Side      12          12
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear      25          25
Setback (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/     35/3        35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal 25          25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
 
                    Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/Pocket
 Traditional Format Residential Design Subdivision  Neighborhood
                    Guidelines
                  Traditional Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/
                  Format      Residential Design Subdivision  Pocket
                              Guidelines                      Neighborhood
Single-Family Attached Development
Maximum
Residential       3.35        4
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum Lot Area  9,500/unit  7,600/unit
(square feet)
Minimum
Development Width 170         140
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of    40          45
total area)
Minimum Street    5 from interior streets
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side      None                           N/A          N/A
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear      None
Setback (feet)
Minimum Perimeter
Setback Around    30          30
Development
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/     35/3        35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal 30          30
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
 
                    Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/Pocket
 Traditional Format Residential Design Subdivision  Neighborhood
                    Guidelines
                  Traditional Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/
                  Format      Residential Design Subdivision  Pocket
                              Guidelines                      Neighborhood
Triplex/Quadplex Development
Minimum
Development Size  1
(acres)
Maximum
Residential       4
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum Lot Area  7,600/unit
(square feet)
Minimum
Development Width 140
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of    45          N/A                N/A          N/A
total area)
Minimum Street    30
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side      12
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear      25
Setback (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/     40/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal 25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
 
                    Complies with      Conservation Bungalow Court/Pocket
 Traditional Format Residential Design Subdivision  Neighborhood
                    Guidelines
                 Traditional     Complies with     Conservation Bungalow Court/
                 Format          Residential       Subdivision  Pocket
                                 Design Guidelines              Neighborhood
Multi-Family Development
Minimum
Development Size 1
(acres)
Maximum
Residential      4
Density (units/
acre)
Minimum
Development      140
Width (linear
feet)
Maximum Lot
Coverage (% of   45              N/A               N/A          N/A
total
Minimum Street   5 from interior
Setback (feet)   streets
Minimum Side     None
Setback (feet)
Minimum Rear     None
Setback (feet)
Minimum
Perimeter
Setback Around   30
Development
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/    40/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between
Principal        30
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Non-Residential.
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)                                     12,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)                                    80
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)                               45
Minimum Street Setback (feet)                                      30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)                                        10
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)                                        25
Maximum Building Height (feet)                                     35/2
Minimum Spacing Between Principal Buildings on the Same Lot (feet) 25
 
   E.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-94.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-96.jpg]
   F.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.3.5.   Residential Urban (R6) District
   A.   District Character. The Residential Urban (R6) district is found in the
urban portions of Town proximate to downtown and major transportation
corridors. Development is typically more compact with more impervious surfaces
than that found in the Town's suburban areas. Urban areas maintain a wide
diversity of land uses and are more likely to be proximate to non-residential
districts. Compatibility between adjacent land uses is maintained through
landscaping, screening, design quality, and site configuration that seeks to
control noise, odors, lighting, and incompatible views between developments.
The district allows almost all forms of residential development, including
therapeutic living arrangements (like nursing homes), retirement communities,
and group homes. Densities are in the range of five dwelling units an acre,
though they may be increased beyond five units an acre based on design quality.
Conservation subdivisions are not permitted in the R6 district. Lot sizes for
individual units tend to be smaller and as such, there is an increased reliance
on common open space and public recreation amenities, including greenways and a
well-connected sidewalk network. The district allows a variety of institutional
and neighborhood-supporting non- residential and mixed uses.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-98.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards-Residential.
 Traditional Format Complies with Residential Design Bungalow Court/ Pocket
                    Guidelines                       Neighborhood
                                         Complies with      Bungalow Court/
                      Traditional Format Residential Design Pocket Neighborhood
                                         Guidelines
Single-Family Detached Development
Maximum Development   N/A                N/A                3
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential   5.44               6                  4
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area      8,000              7,200              6,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width     70                 70                 30
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  30                 35                 65
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street        30; may be reduced to 20 measured to  20; 0 from alley
Setback (feet)        front edge of a covered porch
Minimum Side Setback  10                 10                 5/side
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  25                 25                 15
(feet)
Maximum Building      35/3               35/3               35/3
Height (feet/stories)
Duplex Development
Maximum Residential   4.15               6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area      10,500/unit        7,200/unit
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width     95                 95
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  30                 35
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street        30; may be reduced to 20 measured to
Setback (feet)        front edge of a covered porch         N/A
Minimum Side Setback  12                 12
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  25                 25
(feet)
Maximum Building      35/3               35/3
Height (feet/stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal     25                 25
Buildings on the Same
Lot (feet)
Single -Family Attached Development
Maximum Residential   4.15               6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area      10,500/unit        7,200/unit         N/A
(square feet)
Minimum Development   140                120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  30                 35
(% of total area)
Minimum Street        5 from interior streets
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback  None
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  None
(feet)
Minimum Perimeter                                           N/A
Setback Around        25                 25
Development (feet)
Maximum Building      35/3               35/3
Height (feet/stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal     25                 25
Buildings on the Same
Lot (feet)
Triplex and Quadplex Development
Minimum Development   1
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential   6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area      7,200/unit
(square feet)                            N/A                N/A
Minimum Development   120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  35
(% of total area)
Minimum Street        30
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback  12
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  25
(feet)
Maximum Building      40/3               N/A                N/A
Height (feet/stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal     25
Buildings on the Same
Lot (feet)
Multi-Family Development
Minimum Development   1
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential   6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Development   120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  35
(% of total area)
Minimum Street        5 from interior
Setback (feet)        streets
Minimum Side Setback  None
(feet)                                   N/A                N/A
Minimum Rear Setback  None
(feet)
Minimum Perimeter
Setback Around        25
Development (feet)
Maximum Building      40/3
Height (feet/stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal     25
Buildings on the Same
Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Non-Residential.
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)                                     10,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)                                    75
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)                               35
Minimum Street Setback (feet)                                      30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)                                        10
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)                                        25
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories)                             35/2
Minimum Spacing Between Principal Buildings on the Same Lot (feet) 25
 
   E.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-100.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-102.jpg]   [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
104.jpg]
   F.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.3.6.   Residential Multi-Family (RMF) District
   A.   District Character. The Residential Multi-Family (RMF) is the most
dense of the residential districts and allows the broadest range of residential
use types, include various forms of mixed-use development. The RMF district is
typically configured as a single development on one or two lots, though are
also some examples of multiple lot developments throughout the Town. Multi-
family development is typically more dense than its immediate surroundings, and
can also serve as an effective transition between single-family detached
development and adjacent commercial or employment uses. Buildings in the RMF
district tend to have shared site access, shared building access, common site
features (like recreation space) owned in common, and centralized service
functions. Residential densities are slightly higher for most forms of
allowable residential development than is permitted in the other residential
districts, though multi-family density is double that in the other residential
districts. In addition to higher density development, the RMF districts allows
a broad range of institutional uses and some low intensity neighborhood-serving
non-residential uses to allow Town residents to take care of some of their
daily needs without need of an automobile, should they desire to do so. Uses
that are potentially detrimental to residential development and low density
development comprised of uniform building types or styles are generally
discouraged in the RMF district.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-106.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards - Residential.
 Traditional Format Complies with Residential Design Bungalow Court/ Pocket
                    Guidelines                       Neighborhood
                                        Complies with      Bungalow Court/
                     Traditional Format Residential Design Pocket Neighborhood
                                        Guidelines
Single-Family Detachment Development
Maximum Development  N/A                N/A                3
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential  6.25               7                  4
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     6,900              6,200              6,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width    70                 60                 30
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 35                 40                 65
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street       30; may be reduced to 20 measured to  20; 0 from alley
Setback (feet)       the front edge of a covered porch
Minimum Side Setback 10                 10                 5/side
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback 25                 25                 15
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        35/3               35/3               35/3
stories)
Duplex Development
Maximum Residential  5                  7
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     8,700/unit         6,200/unit
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width    95                 95
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 35                 40
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street       30; may be reduced to 20 measured to
Setback (feet)       the front edge of a covered porch
Minimum Side Setback 12                 12                 N/A
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback 25                 25
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        35/3               35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal    25                 25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
Single-Family Attached Development
Maximum Residential  5                  7                  N/A
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Development  140                120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 35                 40
(% of total area)
Minimum Street       5 from interior streets
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback None
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback None
(feet)                                                     N/A
Minimum Perimeter
Setback Around       25                 25
Development (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        35/3               35/2
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal    25                 25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
Triplex and Quadplex Development
Maximum Residential  7
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     6,200/unit
(square feet)         
                      
Minimum Development  120
Width (linear feet)   
                      
Maximum Lot Coverage 40                 N/A                N/A
(% of total area)     
                      
Minimum Street       30
Setback (feet)        
                      
Minimum Side Setback 12
(feet)                
                      
Minimum Rear Setback 25
(feet)
Maximum Building     40/3
Height (feet/         
stories)                               N/A                N/A
Minimum Spacing      25
Between Principal     
Buildings on the      
Same Lot (feet)
Multi-Family Development
Maximum Residential  12
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Development  120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 40
(% of total area)
Minimum Street       5 from interior
Setback (feet)       streets
Minimum Side Setback None               N/A                N/A
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback None
(feet)
Minimum Perimeter
Setback Around       25
Development (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        50/4
stories)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Mixed-Use.
Maximum Residential Density (units/acre)                           12
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)                                     30,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)                                    120
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)                               45
Minimum Street Setback (feet)                                      30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)                                        10
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)                                        25
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories)                             50/4
Minimum Spacing Between Principal Buildings on the Same Lot (feet) 25
 
   E.   Dimensional Standards - Non-Residential.
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)                                     10,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)                                    120
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)                               45
Minimum Street Setback (feet)                                      30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)                                        10
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)                                        25
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories)                             35/3
Minimum Spacing Between Principal Buildings on the Same Lot (feet) 25
 
   F.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1908.png]
   G.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.4   GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
3.4.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements.
The commercial zoning districts are intended to ensure a wide range of office,
retail, service, industrial, and related uses necessary to meet resident and
visitor needs, and more specifically to:
   A.   Provide appropriately located lands for the full range of business uses
needed by the Town's residents, businesses, and workers, consistent with the
goals, objectives, and policies in the Town's adopted policy guidance;
   B.   Strengthen the Town's economic base, and provide employment
opportunities close to home for residents of the Town and surrounding areas;
   C.   Create suitable environments for various types of business uses, and
protect them from the adverse effects of incompatible uses;
   D.   Provide safe and efficient access to alternative forms of
transportation like public transit facilities, sidewalks, trails, and
greenways;
   E.   Preserve the unique character and historic resources of the downtown
area while increasing opportunities for urban development in areas already
well-served by infrastructure; and
   F.   Minimize the impact of business development on residential districts
and sensitive natural environments.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.4.2.   Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District
   A.   District Character. The Neighborhood Commercial (NC) district is
intended for low intensity, neighborhood-serving commercial and mixed-use
development around significant roadway intersections located along the edges of
neighborhoods. The NC district provides employment, shopping, personal service,
and entertainment uses for the benefit of nearby residents in a compact,
pedestrian-oriented, and walkable context. The district allows offices,
personal services, and small-scale retail and a variety of institutional uses.
As a means of providing additional housing options, the district allows live/
work dwellings and upper story residential over ground-floor non- residential
uses. Non-residential buildings are small-scale, with small footprints, and
with building heights around two stories. Buildings are close to the street
edge and off-street parking is primarily to the side or rear of buildings.
Industrial development and higher density residential uses are not permitted.
District regulations discourage uses that are too intense or that draw the
majority of their patrons from outside the immediate area.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-114.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards- Non-Residential.
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)         10,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)        120
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)   45
Maximum Building Footprint (square     3,500 (excluding residential floor area)
feet)
Minimum Street Setback (feet)          10
Maximum Street Setback (feet)          50
Off-Street Parking Setback from Lot    20; 0 from alleys
Lines Bordering Streets (feet)
Minimum Side Setback (feet)            0
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)            25
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories) 35/3
Minimum Spacing Between Principal      25
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Mixed-Use.
Maximum Residential Density (units/    4
acre)
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)        140
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)   45
Maximum Building Footprint (square     3,500 (excluding residential floor area)
feet)
Minimum Street Setback (feet)          10
Off-Street Parking Setback from Lot    20
Lines Bordering Streets (feet)
Minimum Side Setback (feet)            10
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)            25
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories) 40/3
Minimum Spacing Between Principal      25
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
 
   E.   Dimensional Standards - Residential.
 Traditional Format Complies with Residential Design Bungalow Court/ Pocket
                    Guidelines                       Neighborhood
                                         Complies with      Bungalow Court/
                      Traditional Format Residential Design Pocket Neighborhood
                                         Guidelines
Single-Family Residential Development
Maximum Development   N/A                N/A                3 (max. size)
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential   4.35               5                  4
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area      10,000             8,700              6,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width     75                 70                 30
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  30                 35                 30
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street        20                 20                 20; 0 from alley
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback  10                 10                 5/side
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  25                 25                 15
(feet)
Maximum Building      35/3               35/3               35/3
Height (feet/stories)
Duplex Development
Maximum Residential   3.35               4
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area      13,000/unit        10,890/unit
(square feet)
Minimum Development   100                100                N/A
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  30                 35
(% of total area)
Minimum Street        20                 20
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback  12                 12
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  25                 25
(feet)
Maximum Building      35/3               35/3
Height (feet/stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal     25                 25
Buildings on the Same
Lot (feet)
Triplex/Quadplex Development
Minimum Lot Area      4
(square feet)
Minimum Development   140
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage  45
(% of total area)
Minimum Street        20
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback  12
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback  25
(feet)
Maximum Building      35/3
Height (feet/stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal     25
Buildings on the Same
Lot (feet)
 
   F.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-116.jpg]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-118.jpg]  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1910.png]
   G.   District-Specific Standards. All nonresidential use types permitted in
the NC district shall be subject to the following standards:
      1.   Outdoor storage is prohibited.
      2.   Hours of operation for commercial uses shall be restricted to
between 6:00 a.m. and midnight.
      3.   Drive-through or drive-up facilities are prohibited.
      4.   Except for street lighting, no exterior lighting shall be located
higher than 15 feet above ground or pavement.
      5.   To the maximum extent practicable, off-street parking lots shall be
located to the side or rear of buildings.
      6.   Where possible, access to off-street parking areas shall be via an
alley or driveway located to the side or rear of a lot.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.4.3.   General Commercial (GC) District
   A.   District Character. The General Commercial (GC) district is intended to
provide a wide range of general retail, business, and service uses to Town
residents. GC areas are typically located at major street intersections and
along primary roadway corridors. Development in the GC district is comprised of
a mix of individual buildings on individual sites and multi-tenant or multi-
building developments. Several forms of residential use types are authorized in
the district, though provision on upper floors of mixed-use buildings is
encouraged. Uses in the district are subject to standards intended to ensure
development is compatible with adjacent residential neighborhoods, ensure that
the traffic carrying capacity along the Town's major roadways is not impaired
due to unsafe turning movements, and that development is well landscaped and
aesthetically pleasing. In order to maintain compatibility with surrounding
uses and ensure a high quality of development, all activities, including
storage shall be indoors or be fully screened from view from the street or from
lands in lower-intensity zoning districts.
   B.   Example of Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-122.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards - Non-Residential/Mixed-Use/Multi-Family/
Quadplex/ Triplex.
Maximum Residential Density (units/acre) 7 (applied to residential uses only)
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)           6,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)          50
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)     80
Minimum Street Setback (feet)            30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)              none required; 5 if provided
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)              0 if abutted by an alley; otherwise 25
                                         50; height may increase by 2 feet for
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories)   each additional foot of setback up to
                                         100 feet in height
Minimum Spacing Between Principal        25
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Single-Family Attached/Duplex.
                                Traditional Format Complies with Residential
                                                   Design Guidelines
Maximum Residential Density     5.5                7
(units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)  6,000              6,000
Minimum Development Width       50                 50
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of      80                 85
total area)
Minimum Street Setback (feet)   30                 30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)     None               None
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)     None               None
Perimeter Setback Around        25                 25
Development (feet)
Maximum Building Height (feet/  35/3               35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing Between
Principal Buildings on the Same 25                 25
Lot (feet)
 
   E.   Dimensional Standards - Single-Family Detached.
                                Traditional Format Complies with Residential
                                                   Design Guidelines
Maximum Residential Density     5.5                7
(units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)  6,000              6,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet) 60                 50
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of      80                 85
total area)
Minimum Street Setback (feet)   30                 30
Minimum Side Setback (feet)     12                 12
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)     25                 25
Maximum Building Height (feet/  35/3               35/3
stories)
 
   F.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-124.jpg]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-126.jpg]
   G.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.4.4.   Heavy Commercial (HC) District.
   A.   District Character. The Heavy Commercial (HC) district is intended to
accommodate the widest form of commercial activities, including automobile
oriented commercial uses, shopping centers, large retail uses, and intensive
forms of commercial development. The HC district is characterized primarily by
larger lots with low-rise single-use buildings configured for easy access by
patrons traveling in automobiles. Uses may include outdoor activity, and hours
of operation that extend beyond typical business hours. Buildings may be
single-tenant or multi-tenant. Heavy commercial uses often include surface off-
street parking areas, areas of outdoor storage and display, loading areas, and
often include "outparcel" lots, or a series of lots served by shared
circulation and ingress/egress points. Uses in the district serve Town
residents as well as visitors from other areas. The district does allow mixed-
use development, including buildings with upper floor residential, though low
and moderate-density residential use types are prohibited given the
commercially-intense nature of the district. Heavy industrial uses are also
prohibited to ensure safe and efficient commercial traffic through the
district.
   B.   Example lot pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-128.jpg]
   C.   District Dimensional Standards.
                           Requirement
Standard                   Mixed-Use Development     Non-Residential
                                                     Development
Minimum Residential        4                         N/A
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square   6,000                     6,000
feet)
Minimum Lot Width (linear  50                        50
feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of 85                        80
lot area)
Minimum Street Setback     30                        30
(feet)
Minimum Side Setback       0; 5 if provided          0; 5 if provided
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback       0 if abutted by an alley; 0 if abutted by an alley;
(feet)                     otherwise 25              otherwise 25
Maximum Building Height    50; height may increase by 2 feet for each
(feet/stories)             additional foot of setback up to 100 feet in height
Minimum Spacing Between
Principal Buildings on the 25                        25
Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-130.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-132.jpg]
   E.   District- Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.4.5.   Light Industrial (LI) District.
   A.   District Character. The Light Industrial (LI) district is established
to accommodate agricultural and light manufacturing uses, including assembly,
fabrication, processing, distribution, storage, and wholesales sale of finished
or semi-finished products from previously prepared materials. The district also
allows commercial activities intended to serve the primary businesses in the
district and their employees. Uses allowed in the district do not require large
amounts of land or large building areas for operation nor large yard areas for
isolation or protection from adjoining premises or activities. Activities take
place almost entirely indoors and result in minimal exterior movement of
vehicles, materials, and goods in areas around the district. Buildings are
situated so as to have minimal visual impacts, and are well- screened from
adjacent lower intensity uses. Heavy industrial uses and uses with significant
adverse impacts on adjoining lands, single-family detached homes, and other
low-intensity uses are prohibited.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-134.jpg]
   C.   District Dimensional Standards.
                           Requirement
Standard                   Non-Residential Mixed-Use Development
                           Development
Minimum Residential        N/A             3
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square   30,000          6,000/unit for residential;
feet)                                      all others 30,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear  150             150
feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of 65              75
lot area)
Minimum Street Setback     25              20
(feet)
Minimum Side Setback       20              20
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback       25              25
(feet)
Maximum Building Height    50; height may increase by 2 feet for each
(feet/stories              additional foot of setback up to 100 feet
                           in height
Minimum Spacing Between
Principal Buildings on the 25              25
Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-136.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-138.jpg]
   E.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-17, passed 10-4-2021)
3.4.6   Campus Industrial (CI) District
   A.   District Character. The Campus Industrial (CI) district is established
to accommodate modern, technologically-based, clean industrial development that
takes place in highly controlled environments. Buildings and site activities
are organized into a campus format, where off-street parking and services are
centrally located to the site and serve two or more different structures.
Operations within the buildings typically include bio-engineering,
pharmaceuticals, precision fabrication and assembly, light manufacturing,
research and development, offices, and related activities. Processing,
materials storage, and service areas take place within enclosed buildings or
are screened from view. Live/work structures and upper story residential uses
are allowed. The district does not allow heavy industrial or retail, except as
accessory uses. Land or structures may not be used for any purpose that causes
noxious or offensive odors, gas fumes, smoke, dust, vibration, or noise that
substantially interferes with other nearby uses.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-140.jpg]
   C.   District Dimensional Standards.
                           Requirement
Standard                   Non-Residential Mixed-Use Development
                           Development
Minimum Residential        N/A             3
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square   40,000          6,000/unit for residential;
feet)                                      all others 40,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear  150             150
feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of 65              75
lot area)
Minimum Street Setback     25              20
(feet)
Minimum Side Setback       20              20
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback       25              25
(feet)
Maximum Building Height    50; height may increase by 2 feet for each
(feet/stories)             additional foot of setback up to 100 feet
                           in height
Minimum Spacing Between
Principal Buildings on the 25              25
Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-142.jpg]
   E.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022- 17, passed 10-4-2021)
3.4.7.   Heavy Industrial (HI) District
   A.   District Character. The Heavy Industrial (HI) district is established
to accommodate heavy manufacturing, assembly, fabrication, processing,
distribution, storage, and research and development. It is typically located in
areas with good access to surface transportation by trucks and rail.
Development takes place on larger lots and is often enclosed by security
fencing. The district accommodates large-scale industrial uses including
outdoor operations or storage with extensive movement of vehicles, materials,
and goods, truck traffic and greater potential for adverse environmental and
visual impacts on neighboring lands. The district also allows limited forms of
heavier commercial use types but residential development is prohibited (except
for caretaker quarters as an accessory use). District standards are intended to
prevent the establishment of any use types that would interrupt industrial
operations.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-144.jpg]
   C.   District Dimensional Standards.
Standard                               Requirement
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)         30,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)        150
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)   60
Minimum Street Setback (feet)          25
Minimum Side Setback (feet)            20
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)            25
                                       50; height may increase by 2 feet for
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories) each additional foot of setback up to
                                       100 feet in height
Minimum Spacing Between Principal      25
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-146.jpg]
   E.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-17, passed 10-4-2021)
3.5   GENERAL MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS
3.5.1.   Summary Purpose and Intent Statements
The mixed use zoning districts are intended to accommodate development that
mixes or blends different use types. More specifically, they are intended to:
   A.   Foster developments that mix residential and non-residential uses in
the same building or in different buildings on the same development site;
   B.   Provide for living, shopping, and employment opportunities within close
proximity to one another in a compact and orderly fashion;
   C.   Reduce dependence on the need for travel in an automobile to meet daily
needs;
   D.   Encourage vibrant neighborhoods and centers of economic activity;
   E.   Allow for master planned development that surpasses the minimum
expectations for development quality established in this Ordinance; and
   F.   Create appropriate amounts of flexibility to foster redevelopment,
infill, downtown revitalization, and economic opportunities for Town residents.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.5.2.   Office Institutional (OI) District
   A.   District Character. The Office Institutional (OI) District is
established to accommodate office uses, institutional facilities, educational
uses, research and development facilities, corporate headquarters, and multi-
family residential uses in high quality single-building and multi-building
developments. Buildings have a wide range of sizes and heights, based on their
function. The district also accommodates the ancillary service uses necessary
to support the predominant office and institutional development, but is not
intended as a retail district. Retail, personal service, and other commercial
uses permitted as accessory to an office or institutional use should not occupy
more than ten percent of the floor area and should be configured to minimize
visibility from off-site areas. The OI District also serves as a transition
area between higher intensity commercial uses and nearby lower density single-
family residential neighborhoods. Development in the OI district is subject to
design standards to ensure it maintains compatibility with its surroundings.
   B.   Example Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-148.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards-Nonresidential.
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)         6,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)        50
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)   65
Minimum Street Setback (feet)          20
Minimum Side Setback (feet)            None; 5 if provided
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)            25
                                       30; may be increased by 2 feet for every
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories) additional foot of setback provided
                                       beyond the min.
Minimum Spacing Between Principal      25
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
 
   D.   Dimensional Standards - Mixed-Use.
Maximum Residential Density (units/    7
acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)         6,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)        50
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)   70
Minimum Street Setback (feet)          20
Minimum Side Setback (feet)            None; 5 if provided
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)            25
                                       30; may be increased by 2 feet for every
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories) additional foot of setback provided
                                       beyond the min.
Minimum Spacing Between Principal      25
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
 
   E.   Dimensional Standards - Residential.
 Traditional Format Complies with Residential Design Bungalow Court/Pocket
                    Guidelines                       Neighborhood
                                        Complies with      Bungalow Court/
                     Traditional Format Residential Design Pocket Neighborhood
                                        Guidelines
Single-Family Detached Development
Maximum Development  N/A                N/A                3 (max. size)
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential  5.44               6                  4
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     8,000              7,200              6,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width    70                 70                 30
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 30                 35                 30
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street       30; may be reduced to 20 measured to  20; 0 from alley
Setback (feet)       front edge of a covered porch
Minimum Side Setback 10                 10                 5/side
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback 25                 25                 15
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        35/3               35/3               35/3
stories)
Duplex Development
Maximum Residential  4.15               6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     10,500/unit        7,200/unit
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Width    95                 95
(linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 30                 35
(% of lot area)
Minimum Street       30; may be reduced to 20 measured to
Setback (feet)       front edge of a covered porch
Minimum Side Setback 12                 12                 N/A
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback 25                 25
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        35/3               35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal    25                 25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
Single-Family Attached Development
Maximum Residential  4.15               6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     10,500/unit        7,200/unit
(square feet)                                              N/A
Minimum Development  140                120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 30                 35
(% of total area)
Minimum Street       5 from interior streets
Setback (feet)
Minimum Side Setback None
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback None
(feet)
Minimum Perimeter
Setback Around       25                 25                 NA
Development (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        35/3               35/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal    25                 25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
Triplex/Quadplex Development
Minimum Development  1
Size (acres)
Maximum Residential  6
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Lot Area     7,200/unit
(square feet)
Minimum Development  120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 35
(% of total area)
Minimum Street       30
Setback (feet)                          N/A                N/A
Minimum Side Setback 12
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback 25
(feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        40/3
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal    25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
Multi-Family Development
Maximum Residential  12
Density (units/acre)
Minimum Development  120
Width (linear feet)
Maximum Lot Coverage 40
(% of total area)
Minimum Street       5 from interior
Setback (feet)       streets
Minimum Side Setback None
(feet)
Minimum Rear Setback None               N/A                N/A
(feet)
Minimum Perimeter
Setback Around       25
Development (feet)
Maximum Building
Height (feet/        50/4
stories)
Minimum Spacing
Between Principal    25
Buildings on the
Same Lot (feet)
 
   F.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-150.jpg]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-152.jpg]
   G.   District-Specific Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.5.3.   Downtown Core (DTC) District
   A.   District Character. The Downtown Core (DTC) district is the cultural
and commercial heart of Zebulon. It contains the oldest commercial structures
of three to four stories organized in uniform fashion on grid streets. The need
for segregation of uses is limited except as necessary to avoid negative
impacts from noxious or heavy industrial uses. Development is configured for an
urban context. Buildings are built to the street with ground-floor
nonresidential uses that energize pedestrian activity. There are civic
gathering spaces and cultural attractions. The DTC district encourages mixed-
use development and redevelopment of existing and underutilized lands with a
greater emphasis placed on urban form and compatibility then on use type. The
purpose of the DTC district is to preserve and protect the established
development character while encouraging redevelopment and infill that is
consistent with the established character of the district.
   B.   Example of Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-154.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards.
Maximum Residential Density (units/     16
acre)
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)          None
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)         None
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)    100
Minimum Lot Frontage Occupied by
Building Wall and/or Public Gathering   90
Area (% of lot frontage)
Minimum Street Setback (feet)           Must be within 150% of the average of
                                        lots on either side
Maximum Street Setback (feet)           30
Minimum Setback for Off-Street Parking  20
(feet)
Minimum Side Setback (feet)             None; 3 if provided
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)             None
Minimum Building Height (feet)          15
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories)  60/5
Minimum Spacing Between Principal       In accordance with applicable Fire Code
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
Minimum Required Open Space Set-Aside   None
(% of lot area)
 
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-156.jpg]
   E.   District-Specific Standards.
      1.   Boundary Modifications. Applications seeking to reduce or remove
lots from the DTC boundary or amend a DTC lot designation shall be prohibited
unless initiated by the Board of Commissioners.
      2.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.
         a.   No minimum off-street vehicular parking is required, but if
provided, it shall comply with the standards in Section
5.8.5, Parking Lot Configuration, except that landscaping shall not be
required.
         b.   If off-street parking spaces or loading spaces are provided, they
shall be at least 20 feet from a lot line and shall be either behind a building
wall, screening wall meeting the standards of Level 4 (see
Table 5.10.5, Screening Methods) or better, or be within a parking structure.
      3.   Landscaping. Except for the provision of street trees in accordance
with Section
5.6.13, Street Trees, landscaping is not required.
      4.   Screening. All service areas, equipment, and similar site features
shall be screened in accordance with Section
5.10, Screening.
      5.   Signage. Signage types shall be limited to wall signs, window signs,
projecting signs, ground signs, and suspended signs in accordance with Section
5.11, Signage.
      6.   Exterior Lighting. Exterior lighting shall be provided in a manner
necessary to illuminate building entrances and outdoor access to sidewalks and
public gathering areas.
      7.   Fences and Walls.
         a.   Fences shall not be located between the primary entrance of a
building and the front lot line.
         b.   Fencing and privacy walls may be used to screen parking and
service features to the sides or rear of a building.
      8.   Streets. New development and redevelopment shall protect and extend
mid- block and rear loaded alleys, to the maximum extent practicable.
      9.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks meeting the configuration characteristics on
adjacent lots shall be provided between all building walls and an abutting
street right- of-way.
      10.   Block Lengths. The established pattern of streets and blocks shall
be continued and shall not be interrupted or blocked by new buildings.
      11.   Public Utilities. Public water, public sewer, and street drainage
infrastructure shall be required as a part of new development and
redevelopment.
      12.   Design Standards. All new development and redevelopment shall be
configured in accordance with the following:
         a.   Building paint colors shall be reviewed by the Planning Director
and shall be in keeping with the context and character of surrounding buildings
and visually distinct from immediately adjacent structures.
         b.   The first floor of building facades adjacent to sidewalks shall
be occupied by fenestration for at least 50% of the ground floor facade from
grade to a height of 12 feet.
         c.   Primary building entrances shall face streets and sidewalks, not
parking lots.
         d.   Building facades along sidewalks shall include weather protection
for pedestrians.
         e.   Primary entrances shall be flanked by public gathering spaces,
outdoor dining areas, public art, or other feature that encourages pedestrian
to congregate.
         f.   Infill and new development shall meet the Mixed-Use Design
Standards in Section
5.3.2 unless regulated above.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-55, passed 3-1-2021; Ord. 2022-13,
passed 10-4-2021)
3.5.4.   Downtown Periphery (DTP) District
   A.   District Character. The Downtown Periphery (DTP) district includes the
land around the immediate core of downtown as well as peripheral land that
would benefit from being included in the downtown and developed at a higher
density or intensity. Land in the DTP is strongly encouraged to redevelop from
its current single-use, low- intensity development pattern to higher density
mixed-use forms of development where uses are mixed vertically in a single
building or horizontally on the same lot or site. The establishment of
additional higher density forms of residential development is the key objective
for the DTP district. Also encouraged are nonresidential and institutional uses
that provide an experience to visitors in addition to goods and services.
Development in the DTP should be consistent with traditional southern small-
town character where emphasis is placed on pedestrian travel and Town streets
and buildings include public art and opportunities for residents and visitors
to gather and interact. The primary purpose of the DTP district is to expand
the footprint of Zebulon's downtown in ways that promote pedestrian
orientation, uses that will provide activity and vibrant "street life" for a
least 12 hours per day.
   B.   Example of Lot Pattern.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-158.jpg]
   C.   Dimensional Standards.
                                        Single-Family Detached - 8
Maximum Residential Density (units/     Duplex/Triplex/Quad. - 10
acre)                                   Single-Family Attached - 10
                                        Multi-Family - 12
                                        Mixed-Use - 32
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)          Residential 3,000;
                                        Non-Residential 10,000
Minimum Lot Width (linear feet)         30
Maximum Lot Coverage (% of lot area)    85
Minimum Lot Frontage Occupied by
Building Wall and/or Public Gathering   75
Area (% of lot frontage)
Minimum Street Setback (feet)           None
                                        40; may be increased to accommodate
Maximum Street Setback (feet)           outdoor dining or a public gathering
                                        area
Minimum Setback for Off-Street Parking  20
(feet)
Minimum Side Setback (feet)             None; 5 if provided
Minimum Rear Setback (feet)             15
                                        Residential - 12/1
                                        Non-Residential and Mixed Use - 20/2;
Minimum Building Height (feet/stories)  may follow the residential standards if
                                        outdoor dining or a public gathering
                                        area is provided between the building
                                        and the street
Maximum Building Height (feet/stories)  60/4
Minimum Spacing Between Principal       15
Buildings on the Same Lot (feet)
Minimum Required Open Space Set-Aside   10 (provided as urban set-aside)
(% of lot area)
 
   D.   Development Examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-160.jpg]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-162.jpg]  [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
164.jpg]
   E.   District-Specific Standards.
      1.   Boundary Modifications. Except for the establishment of a PD
district, applications seeking to revise the DTP district boundary may only be
proposed after completion of, or amendment to, a small area plan for the
downtown by Town staff, unless this requirement is waived by the Board of
Commissioners.
      2.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.
         a.   No minimum off-street vehicular parking is required, but if
provided, it shall comply with the standards in Section
5.8.5, Parking Lot Configuration, except that landscaping shall not be
required.
         b.   If off-street parking spaces or loading spaces are provided, they
shall be at least 20 feet from a lot line and shall be either behind a building
wall, screening wall meeting the standards of Level 4 or better (see
Table 5.10.5, Screening Methods), or be within a parking structure.
      3.   Landscaping.
         a.   Except for the provision of street trees in accordance with
Section
5.6.13.
         b.   Street Trees, landscaping is not required.
         c.   Lots located in the DTP district that abut lots in different
zoning district other than DTC or PD shall provide a perimeter buffer in
accordance with
Table 5.6.10.F, Buffer Application.
      4.   Screening. All service areas, equipment, and similar site features
shall be screened in accordance with Section
5.10, Screening.
      5.   Signage. Signage types shall be limited to wall signs, window signs,
projecting signs, ground signs, and suspended signs in accordance with Section
5.11, Signage.
      6.   Exterior Lighting. Exterior lighting shall be provided in a manner
necessary to illuminate building entrances and outdoor access to sidewalks and
public gathering areas.
      7.   Fences and Walls.
         a.   Except for single-family residential development, fences or walls
shall not be located between the primary entrance of a building and the front
lot line.
         b.   Fencing and privacy walls may be used to screen parking and
service features or yards to the sides or rear of a building.
      8.   Streets.
         a.   Development in the DTP district shall continue or establish a
grid street pattern where no street segment shall extend more than 500 feet
without another street intersection, alley intersection, or mid-block
pedestrian accessway.
         b.   New development shall dedicate and construct new streets in the
DTP district.
         c.   Private streets are prohibited within the DTP district.
         d.   Rear- or side-loaded alleys shall be provided and dedicated to
the Town wherever possible.
         e.   In cases where a rear- or side-loaded vehicular alley is not
feasible to construct new development shall provide a mid-block public
pedestrian accessway with a minimum width of 12 feet.
      9.   Sidewalks.
         a.   Sidewalks meeting the configuration characteristics on adjacent
lots shall be provided between all building walls and an abutting street right-
of-way.
         b.   Building facades along sidewalks shall include weather protection
for pedestrians.
      10.   Pedestrian Accessways. Improved pedestrian accessways shall be
provided between the primary entrance of all multi-family, non-residential, and
mixed- use buildings and the adjacent public sidewalk system or public mid-
block pedestrian accessways.
      11.   Block Lengths. The established pattern of streets and blocks shall
be continued and shall not be interrupted or blocked by new buildings.
      12.   Public Utilities. Public water, public sewer, and street drainage
infrastructure shall be required as a part of new development and
redevelopment.
      13.   Design Standards.
         a.   All new development and redevelopment shall be configured in
accordance with the applicable design standards in Section
5.3, Design Standards.
         b.   An applicant may propose development that deviates from the
applicable design standards subject to special review by the TRC, who shall
determine if the proposed deviations:
            i.   Maintain consistency with the Town's adopted policy guidance;
            ii.   Support the purpose and intent statements of the DTP district
generally;
            iii.   Result in a higher quality of development than would have
otherwise resulted from a strict application of the design standards; and
            iv.   Mitigate any potential negative impacts that may result from
the deviation.
      14.   Compatibility Standards. New multi-family, non-residential, and
mixed-use development that abuts or is across a street from single-family
detached dwelling located in a different zoning district (other than DTC or PD)
shall be configured in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   The building shall maintain a maximum height of two stories or
less within 150 linear feet of a lot line subject to these compatibility
standards;
         b.   The use shall not include speakers that produce music or other
noise that is audible beyond the lot line;
         c.   Drive throughs or other vehicular-related service area shall not
be adjacent to a lot line subject to these compatibility standards;
         d.   Surface off-street parking areas that abut a lot line subject to
these compatibility standards shall be screened by an opaque fence or privacy
wall with a minimum height of six feet above grade;
         e.   Vending machines, service areas, mechanical equipment, loading
areas, and similar functional elements shall be located as far as possible from
lot lines subject to these compatibility standards, or shall be configured in a
manner that prevents any negative impacts (visual, auditory, or otherwise); and
         f.   Refuse collection, recycling, and other waste-related activities
shall be located as far as possible from a lot line subject to these standards.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-55, passed 3-1-2021)
3.5.5.   Planned Development (PD) District
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The Planned Development (PD) districts are
established and intended to encourage innovative land planning and site design
concepts that support a high quality of life and achieve a high quality of
development, environmental sensitivity, energy efficiency, and other Town goals
and objectives by:
      1.   Reducing or diminishing the inflexibility or uniform design that
sometimes results from strict application of zoning and development standards
designed primarily for individual lots;
      2.   Allowing greater freedom in selecting the means of providing access,
open space, and design amenities;
      3.   Allowing greater freedom in providing a well-integrated mix of
residential and nonresidential land uses in the same development, including a
mix of housing types, lot sizes, and densities;
      4.   Creating a system of incentives for redevelopment and infill in
order to revitalize established areas;
      5.   Promoting a vibrant public realm by placing increased emphasis on
active ground floor uses, pedestrian-oriented building facade design, intensive
use of sidewalks, and establishment of public gathering areas;
      6.   Providing for efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of
utilities and streets and thereby lowering development and housing costs; and
      7.   Promoting quality design and environmentally sensitive development
that respects surrounding established land use character and respects and takes
advantage of a site's natural and man-made features, such as trees, estuaries,
shorelines, special flood hazard area, and historic features.
   B.   General Standards for All Planned Developments.
      1.   How Established. A planned development is established in a manner
similar to the establishment of a conditional zoning district in accordance
with the procedures and requirements in Section
2.2.13, Planned Development.
      2.   Master Plan Required. All development configured as a PD shall be
subject to a master plan submitted and approved as part of the application to
establish the district. The master plan shall:
         a.   Include a statement of planning objectives for the district;
         b.   Describe the specific ways in which any modifications to the
generally applicable standards in this Ordinance will result in a development
of higher quality than would have otherwise resulted if the development was
established without any proposed modifications to the standards in this
Ordinance.
         c.   Identify the general location of individual development areas,
identified by land use(s) and/or development density or intensity;
         d.   Depict the general configuration and relationship of the
principal elements of the proposed development, including general building
types;
         e.   Identify for the entire district and each development area the
acreage, types and mix of land uses, number of residential units (by use type),
nonresidential floor area (by use type), residential density, and
nonresidential intensity;
         f.   Identify the general location, amount, and type (whether
designated for active, passive, or urban) of open space;
         g.   Identify the location of environmentally sensitive lands,
wildlife habitat, and resource protection lands;
         h.   Identify the on-site transportation circulation system, including
the general location of all public and private streets, existing or projected
transit service, pedestrian and vehicular circulation features, and how they
will connect with existing and planned systems;
         i.   Identify the general location of on-site potable water and
wastewater facilities, and how they will connect to existing systems;
         j.   Identify the general location of on-site stormwater management
facilities, and how they will connect to existing public systems; and
         k.   Identify the general location of all other on-site public
facilities serving the development, including but not limited to parks,
schools, bus shelters, and facilities for fire protection, police protection,
EMS, and solid waste management.
      3.   Compliance with Subdivision Standards. Planned developments that
include the division of land into two or more lots shall be subject to the
subdivision standards in
Article 6: Subdivisions, and shall be subject to the requirements of Section
2.2.14, Preliminary Plat, and Section
2.2.10, Final Plat, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      4.   Site Plan Review.
         a.   The planned development master plan may take the form of a
generalized concept plan for development that provides a general indication of
building and site feature location, or it may be configured to the level of
detail associated with site plans and construction drawings depicting exact
building placement, location and profile of public infrastructure, and
configuration of site features like parking, landscaping, and similar elements.
         b.   In cases where the master plan is more general or conceptual in
nature, the development proposed in the planned development designation shall
also undergo site plan review in accordance with Section
2.2.17, Site Plan.
         c.   In cases where the master plan is detailed and meets the minimum
requirements for a site plan in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners, the
applicant shall request, and the Board of Commissioners may grant an exemption
from subsequent site plan review.
         d.   If a site plan review exemption is granted by the Board of
Commissioners, the proposed development shall fully comply with the development
configuration depicted in the planned development master plan. Failure to
comply with the approved master plan configuration shall require an amendment
of the planned development application in accordance with Section
2.2.17.1, Amendment.
      5.   Densities/Intensities. The densities for residential development and
the intensities for nonresidential development applicable in each development
area of a PD district shall be as established in the master plan, and shall be
consistent with adopted policy guidance.
      6.   Dimensional Standards. The dimensional standards applicable in each
development area of a PD district shall be as established in the master plan.
The master plan shall include at least the following types of dimensional
standards:
         a.   Minimum lot area;
         b.   Minimum lot width;
         c.   Minimum and maximum setbacks;
         d.   Maximum lot coverage;
         e.   Maximum building height;
         f.   Maximum individual building size;
         g.   Floor area ratio; and
         h.   Minimum setbacks from adjoining residential development or
residential zoning districts.
      7.   Development Standards.
         a.   All development in a PD district shall comply with the
development standards of
Article 5: Development Standards, and the subdivision and infrastructure design
standards of
Article 6: Subdivisions, unless modified in accordance with this section.
         b.   In no instance shall a planned development district seek to
modify, waive, or reduce any of the following standards:
            i.   Section
3.8 Overlay Zoning Districts; or
            ii.   Section
6.5, Owners' Associations.
            iii.   Section
6.5, Owners' Associations.
         c.   In cases where a planned development district is proposed as part
of redevelopment of an existing site and the existing site does not comply with
the standards in subsection (b) above, the development contemplated in the
planned development shall not be required to achieve full compliance, but shall
not increase the degree to which the development fails to comply with the
standards in subsection (b) above.
      8.   Consistency with Adopted Policy Guidance. The PD zoning district
designation, the master plan, and the terms and conditions document should be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, and any applicable functional plans and
small area plans adopted by the Town.
      9.   Compatibility with Surrounding Areas. Development along the
perimeter of a PD district shall be compatible with adjacent existing or
proposed development. Where there are issues of compatibility, the master plan
shall provide for transition areas at the edges of the PD district that provide
for appropriate buffering and/or ensure a complementary character of uses.
Determination of complementary character shall be based on
densities/intensities, lot size and dimensions, building height, building mass
and scale, hours of operation, exterior lighting, siting of service areas, or
other aspects identified by the Board of Commissioners.
      10.   Development Phasing Plan. If development in the PD district is
proposed to be phased, the master plan shall include a development phasing plan
that identifies the general sequence or phases in which the district is
proposed to be developed, including how residential and nonresidential
development will be timed, how infrastructure (public and private) and open
space will be provided and timed, and how development will be coordinated with
the Town's capital improvements program.
      11.   Conversion Schedule.
         a.   The planned development application may include a conversion
schedule that identifies the extent to which one type of residential use may be
converted to another type of residential use or one type of nonresidential use
may be converted to another type of nonresidential use (i.e., residential to
residential, or nonresidential to nonresidential). These conversions may occur
within development areas and between development areas, as long as they occur
within the same development phase, as identified by the approved development
phasing plan, and are consistent with established extents of conversion set
down in the conversion schedule.
         b.   In the event an applicant seeks to revise the development in
accordance with an approved conversion schedule, the applicant shall provide a
revised site plan depicting the proposed conversions to the TRC for review and
approval prior to commencing any conversions.
      12.   On-Site Public Facilities.
         a.   Design and Construction. The master plan shall establish the
responsibility of the developer/landowner to design and construct or install
required and proposed on-site public facilities in compliance with applicable
Town, state, and federal regulations.
         b.   Dedication. The master plan shall establish the responsibility of
the developer/landowner to dedicate to the public the right-of-way and
easements necessary for the construction or installation of required and
proposed on-site public facilities in compliance with applicable Town, state,
and federal regulations.
         c.   Modifications to Street Standards. In approving a master plan,
the Board of Commissioners may approve modifications or reductions of street
design standards - including those for right-of-way widths, pavement widths,
required materials, provision of public transit amenities, and turning radii,
with NCDOT approval, on finding that:
            i.   The master plan provides for adequate separation/integration
of vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic;
            ii.   Access for emergency service vehicles is not substantially
impaired;
            iii.   Adequate parking is provided for the uses proposed; and
            iv.   Adequate space for public utilities is provided within the
street right-of-way.
      13.   Uses. The uses allowed in a PD district are identified in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, as allowed subject to a master plan. Allowed
uses shall be established in the master plan. Allowed uses shall be consistent
with adopted policy guidance, the purpose of the particular PD district, and
subject to any additional limitations or requirements set forth in Section
4.3, Use-Specific Standards, for the PD district. Nothing shall limit an
applicant from seeking to modify an otherwise applicable use-specific standard
in accordance with the standards in Section
3.5.5.B.2, Master Plan Required.
   C.   Planned Development Terms and Conditions. The terms and conditions
document shall incorporate by reference or include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Conditions related to approval of the application for the PD zoning
district classification;
      2.   The master plan, including any density/intensity standards,
dimensional standards, and development standards established in the master
plan;
      3.   Conditions related to the approval of the master plan, including any
conditions related to the form and design of development shown in the master
plan;
      4.   Provisions addressing how transportation, potable water, wastewater,
stormwater management, and other infrastructure will be provided to accommodate
the proposed development;
      5.   Provisions related to environmental protection and monitoring; and
      6.   Any other provisions the Board of Commissioners determines are
relevant and necessary to the development of the PD in accordance with
applicable standards and regulations.
   D.   Amendments to Approved Master Plan. Amendments or modifications to a
master plan shall be considered in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.13, Planned Development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6. CONDITIONAL DISTRICTS
3.6.1.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this conditional zoning districts section is to establish the
range of available conditional zoning districts available for establishment in
accordance with Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment. More specifically, these standards are intended
to:
   A.   Provide an alternative to general zoning districts when a general
zoning district may allow a range of uses that could have adverse impacts on
public facilities or surrounding lands;
   B.   Create an adequate amount of flexibility in addressing the standards of
this Ordinance to accommodate unique site-specific conditions or contexts;
   C.   Allow a landowner to propose, and the Board of Commissioners to
consider, additional conditions or restrictions on the range of allowable uses,
use-specific standards, development intensities, development standards, and
other applicable regulations;
   D.   Allow a landowner to propose, and the Board of Commissioners to
consider, a reduction in some development standards that would otherwise apply;
and
   E.   Establish a legislative means to accommodate desirable development
while avoiding or addressing anticipated problems that may arise from the
proposed development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.2.   Creation
Land shall be classified into a conditional zoning district only in accordance
with the procedures and requirements set forth in Section
2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.3.   Districts Established
The conditional zoning districts, each bearing the designation "C" after the
district name, are established in
Table 3.1.3, Zoning Districts Established.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.4.   Conditions, Generally
Applications for the establishment of a conditional zoning district shall
include conditions proposed in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Conditions associated with a conditional zoning district may be
proposed by an applicant or the Board of Commissioners. Regardless of how
proposed, only those conditions agreed to by both the applicant and the Board
of Commissioners shall be included in the approved conditional rezoning.
   B.   Conditions shall be subject to the standards in Section
2.2.6.L, Conditions of Approval.
   C.   Conditions associated with a conditional rezoning application may be
either more restrictive or less restrictive than the standards applicable to
the parallel general zoning district.
   D.   In cases where proposed conditions are less restrictive, the applicant
shall provide an explanation as to why the proposed condition(s) is necessary,
and the ways in which approval of the less restrictive condition(s) will result
in development that is in closer
alignment with the provisions in Section
1.4, Purpose and Intent, and the Town's adopted policy guidance.
   E.   Applicants are strongly encouraged to provide mitigation for any
potential negative impacts anticipated to result from proposed conditions that
are less restrictive than the parallel zoning district requirements.
   F.   Unless specifically modified in accordance with an approved condition,
development in a conditional zoning district shall be subject to all the use
and development standards and requirements that apply to development in the
parallel general zoning district.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.5.   Limitations on Conditions
In no instance shall any of the following standards in this Ordinance be waived
or reduced as part of an application for a conditional rezoning:
   A.   Any of the applicable overlay district standards in Section
3.8, Overlay Zoning Districts;
   B.   The maximum allowable residential density unless the landowner
voluntarily complies with the provisions in Section
5.2, Design Guidelines, or the development is subject to a sustainable
development incentive in accordance with Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives;
   C.   Any applicable conservation subdivision standards in Section
6.2, Conservation Subdivision;
   D.   The multi-family design standards in Section
5.3.3, Multi-Family Residential Design Standards;
   E.   The commercial design standards in Section
5.3.1, Commercial Design Standards;
   F.   The mixed-use design standards in Section
5.3.2, Mixed-Use Design Standards;
   G.   The applicable greenway standards in Section
6.4, Greenways; and
   H.   The street and sidewalk standards in Section
6.10, Streets, and Section
6.8, Sidewalks.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.6.   Development Concept Required
   A.   All applications to establish a conditional zoning district
classification shall be supplemented with one of the following:
      1.   A general written description of the proposed development
configuration and associated conditions;
      2.   A conceptual plan depicting the generalized location of proposed
development and site features of sufficient detail to depict the proposed
conditions; or
      3.   A detailed plan meeting the minimum requirements for a site plan
(see Section
2.2.17, Site Plan) that depicts building placement(s) and size(s) as well as
the configuration of all site features along with the proposed conditions.
   B.   Development proposed in a conditional rezoning application that does
not include a detailed plan describe in subsection (3) above shall be subject
to the requirements and procedures in Section
2.2.17, Site Plan, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   C.   In cases where the plan associated with a conditional rezoning is
detailed and meets the minimum requirements for a site plan in the opinion of
the Board of Commissioners, the applicant shall request, and the Board of
Commissioners may grant an exemption from subsequent site plan review.
   D.   If a site plan review exemption is granted by the Board of
Commissioners, the proposed development shall fully comply with the development
configuration depicted in the conditional rezoning application. Failure to
comply with the plan approved as part the conditional rezoning shall require an
amendment of the conditional rezoning application in accordance with Section
2.2.6.N, Amendment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.7.   Compliance with Subdivision Requirements
Conditional rezoning proposals that include the division of land into two or
more lots shall be subject to the subdivision standards in
Article 6: Subdivisions, and shall be subject to the requirements of Section
2.2.14, Preliminary Plat, and Section
2.2.10, Final Plat, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.6.8.   Relationship to Overlay District Standards
Regulations governing development in an overlay zoning district shall apply in
addition to the regulations governing development in the conditional zoning
district. If the standards governing a conditional zoning district expressly
conflict with those governing an overlay zoning district, the more restrictive
standards shall control.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.7.   SPECIAL USE DISTRICTS
3.7.1.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of the Special Use Districts (SUD) is to promote greater land use
compatibility by allowing land owners to voluntarily place their properties
within classifications in which a special use permit is required as a
prerequisite to any use or development, subject to all of the terms and
conditions adopted as part of the establishment of the special use district
designation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.7.2.   Distinguished from General or Conditional Zoning Districts
   A.   Special use districts differ from general and conditional zoning
districts because land in a special use district is subject to the terms and
conditions of approval embodied in a special use permit that is attached to the
approval of the amendment of the Official Zoning Map that establishes the
special use district. The special use permit identifies the limitations,
conditions, and other terms that apply to all development within a particular
special use district and runs with the land until the zoning district
designation is changed.
   B.   The special use permit applicable to land in a special use district is
on file and is available for inspection in the offices of the Planning
Department.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.7.3.   Districts Established
   This Ordinance hereby establishes the following special use districts:
   A.   The Residential 13 Special Use District (R-13-SUD); and
   B.   The Commercial Amusement Special Use District (CA-SUD).
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.7.4.   Revision or Amendment
   A.   Any changes to the development located within a special use district
shall require approval of an amendment to the Official Zoning Map in accordance
with Section
2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning, Section
2.2.13, Planned Development, or Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment, as appropriate.
   B.   In no instance shall new lands be designated with the R-l 3-SUD or the
CA-SUD zoning district classification after January 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.7.5.   Additional Standards for the CA-SUD District
In addition to the special use permit applicable to lands designated CA-SUD,
the following standards shall also apply:
   A.   District Purpose. For the purpose of promoting the health, safety and
general welfare through the provision of suitable locations and standards of
development for recreational, open space and amusement enterprises, there is
hereby established a Commercial Amusement Special Use District. It is
recognized that the public interest is best served by the district for high
intensity uses, especially those designed to accommodate 1,000 persons or more,
to provide for orderly and flexible development process. This district is
adopted for the purposes of:
      1.   Permitting the use and development, on sites of suitable size and
location, of stadiums, athletic fields, arenas, fairgrounds, convention centers
and similar facilities in which 1,000 or more persons may be accommodated for a
single or variety of purposes at one time;
      2.   Ensuring that the uses will be located at suitable locations and
that appropriate standards of development will be undertaken to minimize
negative impacts on adjoining properties; and
      3.   Providing a means of public-private partnership in development
projects that promote the public welfare.
   B.   Basic Requirements. In furtherance of the above, the Commercial
Amusement Special Use District is established as a district which:
      1.   Requires a more stringent review process for development standards
than is imposed on conventional zoning districts;
      2.   Permits uses which are high traffic generators only if they are
developed according to an approved development plan and defined standards
which, together with certain incentives, are intended to encourage the
clustering of uses under a single site plan served by a common system of
ingress and egress; and
      3.   Requires landscaping of exterior yards, the provision of open space
and the conservation of land.
   C.   Minimum District Size. No application for a rezoning to Commercial
Amusement Special Use District shall be considered for any area of less than
ten acres of contiguous land.
   D.   Transitional Landscaping Required.
      1.   Where any proposed development adjoins a residentially zoned
property, except across a public street, there shall be provided a 50 feet
transitional yard made of dense trees or shrubbery at least six feet high.
      2.   Where any proposed development adjoins a non-residential property,
there shall be provided 25 feet of transitional yard which shall contain trees
or a screening device.
   E.   Maximum Amount of Land Devoted to Buildings.
      1.   No more than 30 percent of the land area, exclusive of parking and
street surfaces, shall be devoted to enclosed buildings.
      2.   This restriction shall not apply for developments which provide no
less than 10 percent of the land area as public parkland.
   F.   Exterior Lighting.
      1.   All lights shall be beamed down and away from adjoining properties.
      2.   To the extent practicable, all lights produced on site shall be
contained within the perimeter of the site by design, orientation or shielding
of the light source.
   G.   Allowable Accessory Uses. Accessory uses and structures incidental to
any permitted use such as but not limited to concession stands, restaurants,
stables and storage facilities shall be permitted.
   H.   Development Phasing.
      1.   Any development within the Commercial Amusement Special Use District
shall be in accordance with a development plan approved by the Board of
Commissioners. Plans shall be submitted in a similar manner as that required
for preliminary subdivision plats.
      2.   In approving a development plan, the Board of Commissioners may
authorize, because of the size of the project, phase development.
      3.   It is recognized that by developing in stages, it may not be
possible to meet all of the purposes and standards of this part for each stage
as would be the case in a single, complete development. Therefore, it is found
to be reasonably necessary and expedient that provision be made for flexibility
in administration of certain standards of this Ordinance to provide for
temporary modifications in dealing with development in stages.
      4.   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to temporarily modify any
development standards of this section subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The Board of Commissioners, in granting any modification shall
find that there is reasonable assurance that the overall development plan is
viable;
         b.   The spirit and intent of the purposes of this section will be
maintained; and
         c.   That reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards will be
made to protect the public safety and welfare.
      5.   The Board of Commissioners shall fix a time and duration of like
temporary modification not to exceed two years after the completion of the
final stage. At the end of the time or duration of any temporary modification,
the development shall meet all of the standards and requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.8.   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
3.8.1.   Generally
   A.   Purpose. Overlay zoning districts are superimposed over either all or a
portion of one or more underlying general zoning districts or conditional
zoning districts with the intent of supplementing generally applicable
development regulations with additional development regulations that address
special area-specific conditions, features, or plans while maintaining the
character and purposes of the underlying zoning district.
   B.   Establishment.
      1.   
Table 3.8, Overlay Zoning Districts Established, sets out the overlay zoning
districts established by this Ordinance.
 
Table 3.8: Overlay Zoning Districts Established
Overlay District Name     Abbreviation
Flood Hazard Overlay      FHO
Gateway Corridor Overlay  GCO
Local Historic Overlay    LHO
Manufactured Home Overlay MHO
 
      2.   Some overlay district boundaries are depicted on the Official Zoning
Map, though sub-areas within individual overlay districts may be shown on other
maps or diagrams which are made a part of this Ordinance and maintained by the
Town.
   C.   Classification. Land shall be classified or reclassified into an
overlay zoning district only in accordance with the procedures and requirements
set forth in Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment, and this section.
   D.   Relationship to Underlying Zoning Districts.
      1.   Regulations governing development in an overlay zoning district
shall apply in addition to the regulations governing development in the
underlying general or conditional zoning district, unless otherwise expressly
stated.
      2.   If the standards governing an overlay zoning district expressly
conflict with those governing an underlying general or conditional zoning
district, the standards governing the overlay district shall control, unless
otherwise stated.
      3.   Where land is classified into multiple overlay zoning districts and
the standards governing one overlay zoning district expressly conflict with
those governing another overlay district, the more restrictive standard shall
apply.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.8.2.   Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District
   A.   Statutory Authorization, Findings of Facts, Purpose and Objectives.
      1.   Statutory Authorization. The Legislature of the State of North
Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A;
Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and Article 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D of the
North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local governmental units the
authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
      2.   Findings of Fact.
         a.   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
         b.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
         c.   Impervious surfaces associated with development in a watershed
have the effect of: reducing the watershed's ability to absorb stormwater;
increasing the velocity of stormwater runoff; and, creating erosion from
uplands and depositing sediments into floodplains; cumulatively increasing the
level of flood waters within the town.
         d.   Minimizing construction within the flood protection areas in the
town within its zoning jurisdiction has been identified as an effective means
for minimizing the risk of these losses.
      3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this part to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
         a.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
         b.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;
         c.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
flood waters;
         d.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
         e.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
      4.   Objectives. The objectives of this part are:
         a.   To protect human life and health;
         b.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
         c.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         d.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
         e.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
         f.   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
         g.   Make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
         h.   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
         i.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas; and
         j.   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property
is in a flood area.
      5.   Additional Provisions.
         a.   The Flood Protection Overlay District is applied in combination
with the existing base zoning districts and has the effect of modifying the
requirements, regulations and procedures to the extent expressly indicated in
this chapter.
         b.   Determinations for existing buildings and structures.
         c.   For applications for building permits to improve buildings and
structures, including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
change of occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial
improvements, repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or
work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the Building Official, shall:
            i.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain
an appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser,
of the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
            ii.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs
of improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building
or structure;
            iii.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage: and
            iv.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC
Building Code and this ordinance is required.
         d.   It is the intent that the Town of Zebulon shall apply the Flood
Protection Overlay District to all property within the area as delineated on
the official zoning map of the Town of Zebulon. Whenever the provisions of this
part impose greater restrictive standards than are required in or under any
other ordinance, statute or agreement, the regulations and requirements of this
part shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other ordinance, statute or
agreement require more restrictive standards than are required in this part,
the provisions of such ordinance, statute or agreement shall govern.
   B.   General Floodplain Provisions.
      1.   Lands to Which These Standards Apply. This section shall apply to
all Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas within
the jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJs) of the Town
of Zebulon.
      2.   Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard. The
Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas are those
identified under the Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the
State of North Carolina and FEMA in its FIS dated July 19, 2022 for Wake County
and associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data developed as part of
the Flood Insurance Study, which are adopted by reference and declared a part
of the ordinance. Future revisions to the FIS and DFIRM panels that do not
change flood hazard data within the jurisdictional authority of the Town of
Zebulon are also adopted by reference and declared a part of this ordinance.
         a.   Flood Protection Zone 1 is the full extent of the FEMA 100-year
floodplain as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, North Carolina
Division of Water Quality, or USGS 7.5-minute topography maps and shall remain
undisturbed. Flood Protection Zone 1 is the most dynamic and hazardous zone,
carrying debris and other projectiles during times of flooding. No new
development is permitted within Flood Protection Zone 1 except for stream bank
or shoreline restoration or stabilization, water dependent structures, and
public or private projects such as road crossings and installations, utility
crossings and installations, and greenways, where no practical alternatives
exist. Flood Protection Zone 1 shall remain undisturbed in its entirety except
for exempted activities described herein.
         b.   Flood Protection Zone 2 shall be a minimum of 50 feet landward of
all sides of perennial and intermittent surface waters, streams, lakes, and
ponds as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, North Carolina
Division of Water Quality, or USGS 7.5-minute topography maps and shall remain
undisturbed. A surface water shall be determined present if the feature is
approximately shown on either the most recent version of the soil survey map
prepared by the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA) or the most recent version of the 1:24,000
scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States
Geologic Survey (USGS). An exception to this requirement may be allowed when
surface waters are not present in accordance with the provisions of 15A NCAC
2B.0233(3)(a) or similar site- specific determination made using division-
approved methodology. Disturbance of existing vegetation shall be minimized to
the greatest extent possible except for the installation of artificial stream
bank or shoreline stabilization, water dependent structures and public or
private projects such as utility service lines, road crossings or greenways
where no practical alternatives exists. No new impervious surface or regular
maintenance (e.g. mowing) of vegetation can occur in Zone 2.
      3.   Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit. A floodplain
development permit (see Section
2.2.11, Floodplain Development Permit) shall be required in conformance with
the provisions of this part prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
      4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the
terms of this part and other applicable regulations. This part shall render no
valid permitted or conforming structure nonconforming. An existing structure
may be rebuilt if damaged or destroyed even if the structure fails to conform
to these regulations. However, any increase in prior approved impervious
surface area shall be subject to these regulations.
      5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. This part is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this part and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
      6.   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this part,
all provisions shall be:
         a.   Considered as minimum requirements;
         b.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
         c.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
      7.   Flood Protection.
         a.   The degree of flood protection required by this part is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering consideration.
         b.   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights
may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
         c.   This part does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazard or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
         d.   This part shall not create liability on the part of the Town of
Zebulon or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this part or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
      8.   Violations.
         a.   Violation of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-
215.58.
         b.   Any person who violates this part or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
         c.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Zebulon from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
      9.   Agriculture.
         a.   Agriculture is subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         b.   Silvicultural activities shall be subject to the provisions of
the Forest Practices Guidelines related to Water Quality (15A NCAC II .0202-
0209). The North Carolina Division of Forest Resources is responsible for
implementing these provisions pertaining to silvicultural activities.
      10.   Requirements for Erosion Control.
         a.   New nonresidential uses within 200 feet of flood protection areas
requiring an erosion/sedimentation control plan under local or state law shall
incorporate adequately designed, constructed and maintained spill containment
structures if hazardous materials are used, stored, or manufactured on the
premises.
         b.   Diffuse flow of runoff into flood protection areas shall be
maintained by dispersing concentrated flow and reestablishing vegetation.
         c.   Vegetative cover shall be reestablished for all areas disturbed
by development activities on sites adjoining the flood protection area and
shall be maintained on a permanent basis.
      11.   Construction of Streets.
         a.   The construction of new roads and bridges and nonresidential
development shall minimize built upon area, divert storm water away from
surface waters and employ best management practices (BMPs) to minimize water
quality impacts.
         b.   Road construction shall use BMPs outlined in the North Carolina
Department of Transportation document, "Best Management Practices for the
Protection of Surface Waters."
         c.   BMPs shall not be constructed within jurisdictional waters.
   C.   Administration of Flood Provisions.
      1.   Designation of Floodplain Administration. The Land Use Administrator
is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions in accordance
with Section
10.7.1.D, Floodplain Administrator.
      2.   Development Application, Permit and Certification Requirements.
Application for a development permit shall be made to the local administrator
on forms furnished by him or her prior to any development activities. The
development permit may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn
to scale showing: A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (e.g., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
Specifically, the following information is required:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided in accordance with
division (C)(10) below, the application for a development permit within the
Zone A on the flood insurance rate map shall show:
            i.   The elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed
reference level of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new and
substantially improved structures; and
            ii.   If the structure has been floodproofed in accordance with
Section 3.8.2.D.2.b, Non-Residential Construction, the elevation in relation to
NAVD 1988 to which the structure was floodproofed.
            iii.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         b.   Where the base flood elevation data is not provided, the
application for a development permit must show construction of the lowest floor
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
         c.   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include; a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation.
         d.   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy. When a structure is floodproofed, the
applicant shall provide a certificate from a registered professional engineer
or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in Section 3.8.2.D.2.b, Non-Residential Construction.
         e.   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to Certificate of Occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
         f.   When a structure requires flood certification, floor elevation or
floodproofing certification a zoning inspection will be performed by the Land
Use Administrator, or their designee, to ensure the proper placement of the
foundation in relation to the required setbacks and/or approved site plan prior
to the scheduling of a footing or any other type of inspection.
         g.   Development of all property within the Flood Protection Area
Overlay District shall require that all plans submitted include delineated
streams demonstrating compliance with the standards of this section. This plan
shall be required to be submitted for all development, planned developments and
any other type of development that increases the impervious area of the site
except for single-family development on a single lot of record created prior to
the adoption of this section. No land-disturbing activity shall take place
prior to issuance of a grading permit.
         h.   Prior to issuance of grading permit for any property within the
Flood Protection Area Overlay District, except for single-family development on
a single lot of record created prior to the adoption of this section, a waters/
wetlands jurisdictional assessment shall be performed by a U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers' qualified environmental professional using Army Corps of Engineers
and North Carolina Division of Water Quality criteria.
         i.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of Section
3.8.2.D.4 have been met.
         j.   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   D.   Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction.
      1.   General Standards. In all special flood hazard areas and future
conditions flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
and lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
         c.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
         d.   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or
above the RFPE or designed and installed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during the occurrence of the base flood.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
            i.   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
            ii.   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a
substantial improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the
addition and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new
construction consistent with the code and requirements for the original
structure.
         e.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
         f.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
         g.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
         h.   Nothing in this part shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
part and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non- encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that the repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this part;
         i.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in Section 2.2.21.G.2, Flood
Hazard Overlay Variance Standards. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel
storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment
plant or wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard
area or future conditions flood hazard area with the Land Use Administrators'
approval only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at
least the regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to
Section 3.8.2.C.2.c;
         j.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
         k.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
         l.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
         m.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
         n.   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
         o.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in
a flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions
for the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall
apply.
         p.   Fill is prohibited in the SFHA and Future Conditions Flood Hazard
Areas, including construction of buildings on fill. This includes not approving
Conditional Letters or Letters of Map Revisions - Based on Fill (CLOMR-F or
LOMR-F).
      2.   Specific Standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base
flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided and in future conditions flood
hazard areas where future conditions flood elevations data has been provided,
as set forth in Section
3.8.2.B.2, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, or
Sections
10.7.1 .D.11 and
10.7.1 .D.12. the following provisions, in addition to Section
3.8.2.D.1, General Standards, are required.
         a.   Residential Construction.
            i.   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation.
            ii.   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided.
         b.   Non-Residential Construction.
            i.   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than two feet
above the level of the base flood elevation.
            ii.   Structures located in A-zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
elevation provided they are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.
            iii.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the standards of this division are satisfied. The certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth in Section
3.8.2.C.2.c.
         c.   Manufactured Homes.
            i.   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or, in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
            ii.   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are
not subject to the provisions of Section
3.8.2.D.2.c.i of this chapter must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood
elevation, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
            iii.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse or lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement in
accordance with the Regulations for Mobile Homes and Modular Housing adopted by
the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when
the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis at least 36 inches or
less above the grade at the sight, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength. When the
elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height an engineering
certification is required.
            iv.   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home
may be placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
provided the anchoring and the elevation standards of Section
3.8.2.D.2.c, Manufactured Homes, are met.
            v.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Land Use Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
         d.   Elevated Buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
            i.   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of the enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
            ii.   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials
below the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
            iii.   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned; and
            iv.   Shall include, in Zones AE and X (Future), flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
               1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
               2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least
one square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
               3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow flood waters to automatically
enter and exit;
               4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no
higher than one foot above the adjacent grade;
               5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood
waters in both directions; and
               6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
         e.   Additions/Improvements.
            i.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
               1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; and
               2.   A substantial improvement, the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
            ii.   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
            iii.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when
the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure are:
               1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
               2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
            iv.   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
            v.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one
(1) year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started
must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or
structure, one (1) year period begins on the date of the first improvement or
repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of Ord.
2022-49. Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are
considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
               1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to
correct existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the
building official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living
conditions.
               2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
         f.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
            i.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
            ii.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
Temporary Placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction.
         g.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of the structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
            i.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
            ii.   The name, address and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
            iii.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will
be removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
            iv.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
            v.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location
outside the special flood hazard area or future conditions flood hazard area,
to which the temporary structure will be moved.
         h.   Accessory Structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area or
future conditions flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
            i.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
            ii.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
            iii.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood
damage potential;
            iv.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters;
            v.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with Sections
3.8.2.D.1.a and
3.8.2.D.1.b;
            vi.   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed
in accordance with Section
3.8.2.D.1.d; and
            vii.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with Section
3.8.2.D.2.d.iii.
         i.   Footprint.
            i.   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation
or floodproofing certificate.
            ii.   Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for
all other accessory structures in accordance with Section
3.8.2.C.2, Development Application, Permit and Certification Requirements).
         j.   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within
a Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area, the
following criteria shall be met:
            i.   Underground Tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas
shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoygncy assuming the tank is empty;
            ii.   Above-Ground Tanks, Elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood
hazard areas shall be elevated to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-
supporting structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable
flood hazard area;
            iii   Above-Ground Tanks, Not Elevated. Above-ground tanks that do
not meet the elevation requirements of Article 5, Section B(12) of this Article
shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are designed,
constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related and other
loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood
and without release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by
floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed,
and anchored to resist the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on
an empty tank during design flood conditions.
            iv.   Tank Inlets and Vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets
and vents shall be:
               1.   At or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of
the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
               2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood.
         k.   Other Development.
            i.   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential
to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh
fences, shall meet the limitations of Article 5, Section F of this ordinance.
            ii.   Retaining Walls, Sidewalks and Driveways in Regulated
Floodways and NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
3.8.2.D.4 of this ordinance.
            iii.   Roads and Watercourse Crossings in Regulated Floodways and
NEAs. Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-
water crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from
one side of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of
3.8.2.D.4 of this ordinance.
      3.   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in Section
3.8.2.A.2, Findings of Fact, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to Section
3.8.2.D.1, General Standards, and Section
3.8.2.D.2, Specific Standards, shall apply:
         a.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
         b.   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in
priority order:
            i.   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within those areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this part and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in Sections
10.7.1.D.11 and
10.7.1.D.12.
            ii.   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. The
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference per Section
3.8.2.B.2, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, to be
utilized in implementing this part; or
            iii.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in
Section
9.4, Definitions.
      4.   Floodways and Non-Encroachment Areas. Areas designated as floodways
or non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in Section
3.8.2.D.2, Specific Standards. The floodways and non- encroachment areas are
extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion
potential and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions,
in addition to standards outlined in Section
3.8.2.D.1, General Standards, and Section
3.8.2.D.2, Specific Standards, shall apply to all development within those
areas:
         a.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated that:
            i.   The proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of
floodplain development permit; or
            ii.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been
approved by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon
completion of the proposed encroachment.
         b.   If Subsection 3.8.2.D.3.a is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this part.
         c.   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
            i.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of Section
3.8.2.D.2.C, Manufactured Homes; and
            ii.   The no encroachment standard of Subsection 3.8.2.D.3.a.
   E.   Subdivisions Within Special Flood Hazard Areas.
      1.   Standards. The following standards set forth in this division shall
be applied to all subdivisions:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
         d.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for all subdivision
proposals that contain special flood hazard areas.
      2.   Floodplain Warning Signs.
         a.   Prior to the approval of the final plat of a subdivision that
contains special flood hazard areas the developer shall cause to be erected a
permanent floodplain warning sign.
         b.   This sign shall be at least two square feet in the area with
lettering no less than one inch in height and be placed in plain view within
the right-of-way nearest to the flood prone properties in new subdivisions or
new phases of existing subdivisions.
         c.   This sign and its placement are subject to approval by the Board
of Commissioners during final plat approval.
         d.   This sign shall read: "Area Subject to Flooding."
   F.   Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (Zone AH). Located within the
Special Flood Hazard Areas established in this ordinance, are areas designated
as shallow flooding areas. These areas are subject to inundation by 1-percent-
annual-chance shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths
are one (1) to three (3) feet. Base Flood Elevations are derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. In addition to requirements under
Section 3.8.2.D, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet
the following requirements:
      1.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided ground structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   G.   Corrective Procedures.
      1.   Violations to be Corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws; it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action. If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         a.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         b.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         c.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order to Take Corrective Action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more one-hundred-eighty (180) calendar days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
      4.   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Board of Adjustment
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
      5.   Failure to Comply with Order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Board of Adjustment an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021; Ord. 2022-49,
passed 6-6-2022)
3.8.3.   Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) district
regulations are intended to enhance the visual appeal of certain roadways in
the Town, and to:
      1.   Designate, preserve, and enhance key roadways that serve as gateways
to the Town in order to create aesthetically pleasing and welcoming entryways
for residents and visitors;
      2.   Encourage redevelopment and investment in underutilized, outdated,
or otherwise challenged corridors in the Town; and
      3.   Address development issues of special concern along these gateways,
with specific requirements which relate to use, development form, traffic
movement, access, environment, landscaping, visual quality, image, and
aesthetics.
   B.   Gateway Corridor Plan Required.
      1.   Prior to establishment of a GCO district for a specific gateway
corridor, a gateway corridor plan for the specific area shall be adopted by the
Board of Commissioners.
      2.   The gateway corridor plan shall describe the conditions, boundaries,
development goals, and standards for the proposed GCO district. The plan shall,
at a minimum, address the following:
         a.   The unique qualities of the corridor, such as significant
buildings, views and vistas, and natural features which lend themselves to
special consideration.
         b.   The value of the corridor as an entryway to the Town which can
influence the perception of citizens and persons or businesses considering
investment in the Town.
         c.   Transportation conditions on the corridor, including vehicular
access, dedication of right-of-way, public transit, pedestrian and bicycle
circulation, driveway limitations, and traffic impact.
         d.   The arrangement of uses along the corridor which shall create a
visually pleasing impression.
         e.   The vision and general goals for development along the corridor,
and specific recommendations for regulatory changes to achieve the vision and
development goals.
   C.   Gateway Corridor Plan Approval. The gateway corridor plan shall be
forwarded to the Planning Board for its review and recommendation. Upon
completion of its review, the plan along with the recommendations of the
Planning Board shall be forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for review. A
gateway corridor plan shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners for a
specific gateway corridor before establishment of a GCO sub-district for the
specific corridor.
   D.   Establishment of a Gateway Corridor Overlay Sub-District.
      1.   The standards establishing a specific GCO sub-district may only be
established in accordance with Section
2.2.20, UDO Text Amendment, and Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment.
      2.   Corridor-specific standards shall be developed and included as a
sub-district in this section.
      3.   Nothing shall limit amendment to Section
3.8.3.E, General Standards Applicable to All Gateway Corridor Sub-districts.
   E.   General Standards Applicable to All Gateway Corridor Sub-Districts.
      1.   GCO district standards for a specific gateway corridor shall follow
the policy direction in the gateway corridor plan approved by the Board of
Commissioners. The GCO district shall, at a minimum, address the following
elements:
         a.   The name and boundaries of the overlay district.
         b.   The development along the corridor to which the overlay district
applies (typically all new development and certain expansions and remodels).
         c.   Any variations from the requirements of the underlying general
zoning district(s).
         d.   The uses allowed in the district, if appropriate.
         e.   The development and form standards of the overlay district,
including some or all of the following:
            i.   Dimensions (height, setbacks, build-to-lines, etc.);
            ii.   Streetscape landscaping;
            iii.   Sidewalks and pedestrian circulation features;
            iv.   Off-street parking;
            v.   Landscaping and tree preservation/reforestation;
            vi.   Open space set-asides;
            vii.   Signage;
            viii.   Exterior lighting;
            ix.   Building design and form;
            x.   Transit amenities; and
            xi.   Road access and traffic circulation.
         f.   The extent to which a general or district-specific standard may
be modified.
   F.   Individual Sub-District Standards. - placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.8.4.   Local Historic Overlay (LHO) District
- placeholder -
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
3.8.5.   Manufactured Home Overlay (MHO) District
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The Manufactured Housing Overlay (MHO) district is
established as a means of providing reasonable opportunities for the placement
of manufactured dwellings in the Town's planning jurisdiction. More
specifically, the district is intended to:
      1.   Provide alternative, affordable housing opportunities for low and
moderate- income residents in residential areas by allowing for the use of
manufactured dwellings.
      2.   Establish requirements designed to assure acceptable similarity in
exterior appearance between manufactured dwellings and single-family dwellings
constructed on adjacent or nearby lots.
      3.   Protect property values and preserve the character and integrity of
the community or individual neighborhoods within the community.
      4.   Require new manufactured dwellings to meet the minimum requirements
for manufactured dwellings in Section
4.3.3.1, Manufactured Dwelling.
   B.   Establishment.
      1.   Manufactured Housing Overlay (MHO) districts shall only be
established in accordance with Section 160D-910 of the North Carolina General
Statutes and Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment.
      2.   In requesting the establishment of an MHO district, an applicant
shall present factual information to ensure, in the discretion of the Board of
Commissioners, that property values of surrounding lands are protected, that
the character and integrity of the neighborhood are adequately safeguarded, and
the proposed MHO district is consistent with these standards.
      3.   To assure acceptable similarity in exterior appearance between
proposed manufactured dwellings and dwellings that are constructed on adjacent
or nearby land, an applicant may, for illustrative purposes only, present
examples of the types and design of such proposed dwellings.
   C.   Development Authorized.
      1.   Land within an MHO district may accommodate the following types of
uses:
         a.   A single manufactured home on an individual lot configured in
accordance with Section
4.3.3.1, Manufactured Dwelling;
         b.   A principal use authorized in the underlying general or
conditional zoning district in accordance with
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table;
         c.   An accessory or temporary use associated with an allowed
principal use.
      2.   Manufactured homes located on lots or sites outside of a MHO
district shall be considered nonconforming in accordance with Section
7.6, Nonconforming Uses.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
ARTICLE 4 - USES
Article 4 - Uses
4: Uses
4.1.   Chapter Organization
4.1.1.   Uses Distinguished
4.1.2.   Chapter Organization
4.2.   Principal Uses
4.2.1.   Use Classification System
4.2.2.   Principal Use Table Structure
4.2.3.   Principal Use Table
4.3.   Use-Specific Standards
4.3.1.   Standards Applied to All Uses
4.3.2.   Standards Applied to any Special Use
4.3.3.   Residential Use Types
4.3.4.   Institutional Uses
4.3.5.   Commercial Uses
4.3.6.   Industrial Uses
4.3.7.   Agricultural Uses
4.4.   Accessory Uses
4.4.1.   Purpose
4.4.2.   Organization of These Standards
4.4.3.   Procedure for Establishment
4.4.4.   General Standards for Accessory Uses and Structures
4.4.5.   Table as Guide
4.4.6.   Listed Accessory Uses
4.4.7.   Standards for Specific Accessory Uses
4.5.   Temporary Uses
4.5.1.   Purpose
4.5.2.   Applicability
4.5.3.   General Standards for Temporary Uses and Structures
4.5.4.   Standards for Specific Temporary Uses
4.6.   Unlisted Uses
4.6.1.   Procedure
4.7.   Prohibited Uses
4.7.1.   Prohibited Everywhere
4.7.2.   Prohibited by Overlay District Standards
4.1.   CHAPTER ORGANIZATION
4.1.1.   Uses Distinguished
Chapter 4: Uses, contains all the standards related to the use of land in the
Town's planning jurisdiction, and is organized by the three types of land use:
principal, accessory, or temporary use.
   A.   Principal uses are the primary, permanent use types proposed on a lot
(like a single- family home).
   B.   Accessory uses are subordinate to the principal use located on the same
lot (like a detached garage serving a single-family home).
   C.   Temporary uses are uses allowed for a short duration of time (like a
portable storage container used for the purposes of storing or moving a
household's belongings).
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.1.2.   Chapter Organization
   A.   Principal Uses.
      1.   Section
4.2, Principal Uses, explains the use organization system and sets out the
summary use table, or the master listing of principal use types and the
districts where they are allowed. Individual principal use types are defined in
Section
9.4, Definitions.
      2.   Section
4.3, Use-Specific Standards, sets out the requirements for designated
individual use types, regardless of the zoning district where it is located.
   B.   Accessory Uses. Section
4.4, Accessory Uses, sets out the general standards applicable to all accessory
uses as well as any additional standards applicable to specific accessory uses.
   C.   Temporary Uses. Section
4.5, Temporary Uses, sets out the standards for temporary uses, including the
districts where allowed, the maximum duration, and any additional standards
applicable to specific temporary uses.
   D.   Unlisted Uses. Section
4.6, Unlisted Uses, describes the process used by the Town in determining how
to address use types that are not already specifically listed in this
Ordinance.
   E.   Prohibited Uses. Section
4.7 Prohibited Uses, identifies the use types that are prohibited throughout
the Town's planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.2   PRINCIPAL USES
4.2.1.   Use Classification System
Individual uses of land, or use types, are organized into one of five use
classifications as described below.
   A.   Use Classifications.
      1.   Use classifications are the top tier in the system and are the
broadest groupings of land uses. There are five use classifications used in
this Ordinance:
         a.   Residential uses;
         b.   Institutional uses;
         c.   Commercial uses;
         d.   Industrial uses; and
         e.   Agricultural uses.
      2.   The primary purpose of the use classifications is to serve as an
organizing principal for grouping the different use types.
   B.   Use Types.
      1.   Use types are the specific individual uses included within a
particular use classification.
      2.   Individual use types are defined in Section
9.4, Definitions.
   C.   Developments with Multiple Principal Uses.
      1.   Developments with multiple principal uses, such as shopping centers,
shall incorporate only those use types allowed in the applicable zoning
district.
      2.   In cases where a proposed development includes two or more use
types, and one of those use types requires approval of a special use permit,
the special use permit shall be approved prior to occupancy of any use types.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.2.2.   Principal Use Table Structure
   A.   Table Structure.
      1.   
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, lists principal use types and indicates
whether the principal use type is permitted by-right, by a special use permit,
allowed in a planned development district, or prohibited in a particular zoning
district. It also includes a reference to any applicable specific standards
that may apply to a particular use type.
      2.   Individual use types are listed alphabetically by use
classification.
      3.   The right-most column includes a reference to any applicable use-
specific standards associated with a use type. Unless otherwise stated in the
standards, a use-specific standard applies to a particular use regardless of
the zoning district where it is located.
   B.   Uses Permitted By-Right. A "P" in a cell of the principal use table
indicates that the specific use type is permitted by-right in the corresponding
zoning district, subject to compliance with any additional use-specific
standards referenced in the principal use table, and any other applicable
standards in this Ordinance.
   C.   Uses Permitted by Special Use Permit. An "S" in a cell of the principal
use table indicates that the specific use type is permitted in the
corresponding zoning district only upon approval of a special use permit in
accordance with Section
2.2.18, Special Use Permit, any additional use-specific standards referenced in
the principal use table, and any other applicable requirements of this
Ordinance.
   D.   Uses Allowed in a Planned Development District.
      1.   An "A" in a cell of the principal use table indicates that the
specific use type is permitted in a planned development district, provided the
specific use type is included in the list of potential use types in the master
plan or terms and conditions statement.
      2.   Allowed uses are subject to any additional use-specific standards
referenced in the principal use table.
      3.   If a use type is listed as prohibited in a planned development
district in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, it may not be included in a master plan or
terms and conditions statement.
   E.   Use-Specific Standards.
      1.   When a specific use type is permitted in a zoning district, there
may be use- specific standards that are applicable. Such additional standards
are referenced in the principal use table column titled "Use-Specific
Standards." These standards shall apply to a specific use type regardless of
the zoning district, unless otherwise specified.
      2.   Use types are also subject to any district standards listed in the
applicable zoning district in
Article 3: Districts.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.2.3.   Principal Use Table
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                      Use-
Use Type   Residential         Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
           R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
                           F                              C   P
Residential Use Classification
Assisted
Living     .   .   .   S   S   .   P   .   .   .   .   P  .   P   A   4.3.3.A
Facility
Boarding/
Rooming    .   S   S   S   P   P   .   .   .   .   .   S      P   A   4.3.3.B
House
Bungalow   .   P   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   .   S  .   P   A   4.3.3.C
Court
Continuing
Care       .   .   .   P   P   S   P   .   .   .   .   P  .   P   A   4.3.3.D
Retirement
Center
Duplex     .   S   S   P   P   P   S   .   .   .   .   P      P   A
Dwelling
Family     P   P   P   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   P      P   A   4.3.3.E
Care Home
Group Home .   .   .   S   S   S   .   .   .   .   .   S  .   S   A   4.3.3.F
Halfway    .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .   .   .   .   S  .   .   A   4.3.3.G
House
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                     Use-
Use Type [1] Residential     Commercial              Mixed Use       Specific
                                                                     Standards
                                                                     [2]
             R R R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI  D T D T P D
             1 2         F                               C   P
Live/Work    . . .   .   P   P   P   P   S   .   .   P   P   P   A   4.3.3.H
Dwelling
Manufactured [3]             .   .   .   .   .   .   [3] .   .   A   4.3.3.I
Dwelling
Manufactured
Dwelling     . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   4.3.3.J
Park
Mobile Home  . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   4.3.3.K
Mobile Home  . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   4.3.3.L
Park
Multi-family . . S   S   P   .   P   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   A   4.3.3.M
Dwelling
Pocket       . P P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   A   4.3.3.N
Neighborhood
Nursing Home . . S   S   S   S   P   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   A
Single-
Family       . . S   S   P   .   P   .   .   .   .   P       P   A   4.3.3.0
Attached
Dwelling
Single-
Family       P P P   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   P       P   A   4.3.3.P
Detached
Dwelling
Triplex/     . . S   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   P       P   A   4.3.3.Q
Quadplex
Upper-Story  . . .   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   .   P       P   A   4.3.3.R
Residential
Institutional Use Classification
Adult Day    . . .   .   S   .   P   P   .   .   .   P   .   S   A   4.3.4.A
Care Center
Airport &
Related      . . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   S   S   .   .   .   A
Facilities
Antenna
Collocation, S S S   S   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   A   4.3.4. B
Major
Antenna
Collocation, P P P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   A
Minor
Arboretum or
Formal       P P P   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   A
Garden
Auditorium   . . .   .   .   .   P   P   S   P   .   P   P   P   A   4.3.4.C
Blood/Tissue . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .
Collection
Broadcasting . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   P   P   A   4.3.4.D
Studio
Cemetery,
Columbarium, . S .   .   .   .   S   S   S   .   S   S   .   .   A   4.3.4.E
or Mausoleum
Child Day    . S S   S   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   P   P   P   A   4.3.4.F
Care Center
Child Day
Care, Drop                   P   P   P               P   P   P   A
In
College or   . . .   .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .   P   .   P   A
University
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                      Use-
Use Type [1] Residential       Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                      Standards
                                                                      [2]
             R R 2 R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
             1             F                              C   P
Community/
Youth/       . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.4.G
Senior
Center
Community    P P   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   P   A
Garden
Coliseum or  . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .  .   P   A   4.3.4.H
Arena
Conference
or           . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.4.H
Convention
Center
Cultural
Facility,    . .   .   .   S   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  P   P   A
Library, or
Museum
Drug/Alcohol
Treatment    . .   .   .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .   P  .   S   .   4.3.4.I
Facility
Fire/EMS/
Police       . .   .   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A
Station
Fraternal
Club or      . S   S   P   P   S   P   P   .   .   .   P  .   S   A   4.3.4.J
Lodge
Government   . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   P   P   .   P  P   P   .
Office
Government
Maintenance, . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .  .   .   .
Storage,
Distribution
Helicopter   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   S  .   .   A   4.3.4.K
Landing Pad
Hospital     . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   .   .   S  .   S   A   4.3.4.L
Indoor
Private      . P   P   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   P  .   P   A
Recreation
Outdoor
Private      . S   S   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .   P  .   S   A
Recreation
Park (public P P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   .   P  P   P   A
or private)
Passenger    . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A
Terminal
Post Office  . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  P   P   A
Psychiatric
Treatment    . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S  .   .   .
Facility
Religious    . S   S   P   P   S   P   P   .   .   .   P  .   S   A   4.3.4.M
Institution
School,      . S   S   P   P   S   P   P   .   .   .   P  .   S   A
Elementary
School,      . S   .   .   .   S   P   P   .   .   .   P  .   S   A   4.3.4.N
High/Middle
School,      . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   P   P  .   P   A   4.3.4.O
Vocational
Small                                                                 4.3.4.P;
Wireless     S S   S   S   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A   4.3.4.S
Facility
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                      Use-
Use Type [1]       Residential Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                      Standards
                                                                      [2]
                   R R R R R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
                   1 2 4 6 F                              C   P
Telecommunications . . . . .   .   .   S   S   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.4Q;
Tower, Major                                                          4.3.4.S
Telecommunications                                                    4.3.4.Q;
Tower, Minor or    . . S S S   S   S   S   P   P   P   S  .   .   A   4.3.4.S
Canceled
Temporary Wireless . S S S S   S   P   P   P   P   P   P  S   S   A   4.3.4.R;
Facility                                                              4.3.4.S
Urgent Care        . . . . .   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  .   P   A
Facility
Utility, Major     . . . . .   .   P   P   P   P   P   P  .   P   A   4.3.4.T
Utility, Minor     P P P P P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A   4.3.4.T
Commercial Use Classification
ABC Store          . . . . .   .   .   P   .   .   .   .  S   S   A
Adult Business     . . . . .   .   .   S   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.A
Aircraft Parts,
Sales, and         . . . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .  .   .   A
Maintenance
Animal Day Care/   . . . . .   P   P   P   P   .   P   .  .   P   A   4.3.5.B
Grooming
Animal Shelter     . . . . .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.C
Art Gallery                    P   P   P               P  P   P   A   4.3.5.D
Artisan Studio                 P   P   P       P       P  P   P   A   4.3.5.E
Auction House      . . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .  .   P   A
Automotive Repair
and Servicing      . . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .  .   S   .   4.3.5.F
(without painting/
bodywork)
Automotive Sales   . . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .  .   P   A   0
and Rentals
Automotive         . . . . .   .   .   P   P   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.H
Painting/Body Shop
Automotive Parts
and Accessories    . . . . .   .   P   P   .   .   .   .  .   P   A
Sales
Automotive Wrecker . . . . .   .   .   .   P   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.I
Yard
Bar, Cocktail
Lounge, or Private . . . . .   S   S   S   S   .   .   .  P   P   A   0
Club
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                     Use-
Use Type [1]  Residential     Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                     Standards
                                                                     [2]
              R R R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
              1 2         F                              C   P
Bed and       S S S   S   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.K
Breakfast
Boat and
Marine
Rental,       . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .  .   .   A
Sales, and
Service
Bottle Shop
(with on      . . .   .   .   S   S   P   S   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.L
premise
consumption)
Business      . . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   P   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.M
Incubator
Campground    . . .   .   P   .   P   .   P   .   .   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.N
Car Wash or
Automobile    . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .  .   P   A   4.3.5.O
Detailing
Catering      . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .  P   P   A
Establishment
Check
Cashing/
Payday        . . .   .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .   .  .   S   .
Lending
Establishment
Clothing      . . .   .   .   .   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A
Rental
Coffee Shop   . . .   .   S   P   P   P   .   P   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.P
Commercial
Recreation,   . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .  P   P   A
Indoor
Computer-
Related       . . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .   .   .  P   P   A
Services
Convenience
Store (no     . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   S   .   .  P   P   A
gasoline
sales)
Convenience
Store (with   . . .   .   .   .   P   P   .   .   .   .  .   S   A   4.3.5.Q
gasoline
sales)
Co-Working    . . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   P   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.R
Space
Crematorium   . . .   .   .   .   .   S   S   .   S   .  .   .   .
Equipment and . . .   .   .   .   .   P   P   .   P   .  .   .   A
Tool Rental
Event Venue   S . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.S
Fairgrounds   . . .   .   .   .   .   S   S   .   S   .  .   .   .
Financial
Services      . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.T
Establishment
Flea Market   . . .   .   .   .   .   P   S   .   .   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.U
Funeral-
Related       . . .   .   .   .   S   S   S   .   .   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.V
Services
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                     Use-
Use Type [1]    Residential   Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                     Standards
                                                                     [2]
                R R R R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
                1 2 4     F                              C   P
Games of Skill  . . . .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.W
Golf Course or  . S S .   .   .   .   P   .   .   .   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.X;
Driving Range                                                        4.3.5.Y
Grocery Store   . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A
Gymnasium/      . . . .   S   P   P   P   S   .   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.Z
Fitness Center
Hair, Nails,
and Skin-       . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   P  P   P   A
Related
Services
Heavy
Equipment,      . . . .   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.AA
Sales, Rental,
and Repair
Hotel or Motel  . . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .  P   P   A
Kennel,         . . . .   .   .   .   P   P   .   .   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.BB
Indoor/Outdoor
Laundry or
Cleaning        . . . .   S   P   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.CC
Service
Microbrewery,
Microwinery, or . . . .   .   S   P   P   P   .   P   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.DD
Microdistillery
Nightclub or    . . . .   .   .   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.EE
Dance Hall
Office, Medical . . . .   .   P   P   P   P   .   .   P  P   P   A
Office,         . . . .   P   P   P   P   P   .   .   P  P   P   A
Professional
Office, Sales   . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .   P  P   P   A
or Service
Outdoor
Commercial      . . . .   .   .   .   P   S   .   S   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.FF
Recreation
Outdoor Storage . . . .   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.GG
Package and
Printing        . . . .   .   P   P   P   .   S   .   P  P   P   A
Service
Park and Ride   . . . .   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A
Facility
Parking Lot     . . . .   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.HH
Parking         . . . .   S   S   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.II
Structure
Pawn Shop                         P   P                  P   P   A   4.3.5.JJ
Pharmacy        . . . .   .   S   P   P   .   .   .   S  P   P   A   4.3.5.KK
Pool Hall       . . . .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .   .  S   S   A
Racetrack       . . . .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   A
Recreational    . . . .   S   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.LL
Vehicle Park
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                     Use-
Use Type [1]  Residential     Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                     Standards
                                                                     [2]
              R R R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
              1 2         F                              C   P
Repair Shop   . . .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.MM
Restaurant
Indoor/       . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.NN
Outdoor
Seating
Restaurant
with Drive-
through/      . . .   .   .   .   P   P   .   P   .   P  .   .   A   4.3.5.NN
Drive-up
Service
Restaurant,   . . .   .   P   P   P   P   P   P   .   P  P   P   A   4.3.5.NN
Walk-up Only
Retail, Bulky . . .   .   .   .   S   P   P   .   .   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.OO
Item
Retail, Large . . .   .   .   .   S   P   P   .   .   .  .   S   A   4.3.5.PP
Format
Retail Use,   . . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .   .   .  P   P   A
Other
Self Service
Storage,      . . .   .   .   .   .   S   P   .   p   .  .   .   A   4.3.5.QQ
External
Access Only
Self Service
Storage,      . . .   .   .   .   S   S   P   .   P   .  .   P   A   4.3.5.QQ
Internal
Access Only
Shooting      . . .   .   .   .   .   S   S   .   .   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.RR
Range, Indoor
Specialty
Eating        . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   S  P   P   A   4.3.5.SS
Establishment
Tattoo and
Piercing      . . .   .   .   .   P   P   .   .   .   .  .   S   A
Establishment
Theatre       . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A
Truck Stop    . . .   .   .   .   .   P   P   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.5.TT
Vape,
Tobacco, and                      P   P                  P   P   A   4.3.5.UU
CBD Shop
Veterinary    . . .   .   .   P   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.5.VV
Clinic
Industrial Use Classification
Asphalt or
concrete      . . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.A
plant
Contractor    . . .   .   .   .   .   P   P   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.B
Services/Yard
Electrical,
Plastic, or   . . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   .  .   .   .
Plumbing
Fabrication
Extractive    . . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.C
Industry
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                      Use-
Use Type [1]   Residential     Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                      Standards
                                                                      [2]
               R R R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
               1 2         F                              C   P
Flex Space     . . .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .  .   P   A   4.3.6.D
Fuel Oil/
Bottled Gas    . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.E
Distributor
Gas Energy     . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .  .   .   .
Conversion
General
Industrial     . . .   .   .   .   .   S   P   P   P   .  .   S   A
Services
Landfill       . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.F
Makerspace       . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   S   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.H
Manufacturing, . . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.6.H
Light
Metal          . . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .  .   .   A
Fabrication
Public
Convenience
Center/        . . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.I
Transfer
Station
Recycling      . . .   .   .   .   .   S   P   .   P   .  .   S   A   4.3.6.J
Center
Research and   . . .   .   .   .   .   S   P   P   P   S  .   P   A
Development
Salvage or     . . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   .   4.3.6.K
Junkyard
Solar Farm     . S .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.6.L
Truck or
Freight        . . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   P   P   .  .   .   A   0
Terminal
Warehouse      . . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.6.N
Distribution
Warehouse,     . . .   .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .  .   P   A   4.3.6.N
Storage
Waste          . . .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .   S   .  .   .   .
Composting
Warehouse      . . .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.6.O
Sales
Wind Energy    . S .   .   .   .   .   S   S   S   S   .  .   .   A   4.3.6.P
Conversion
 
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use                                                                   Use-
Type Residential           Commercial              Mixed Use          Specific
[1]                                                                   Standards
                                                                      [2]
     R 1 R 2 R 4 R 6 R M F N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T C D T P P D
TABLE 4.2.3: PRINCIPAL USE TABLE
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use-specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
                                                                      Use-
Use Type [1] Residential       Commercial              Mixed Use      Specific
                                                                      Standards
                                                                      [2]
             R R 2 R 4 R 6 R M N C G C H C L I C I H I OI D T D T P D
             1             F                              C   P
Agricultural Use Classification
Agriculture
and          P P   .   .   .   .   .   .   P   .   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.7.A
Horticulture
Agricultural
Support      . .   .   .   .   .   P   P   P   .   P   .  .   .   A   4.3.7.B
Services
Animal       P S   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   S   .  .   .   A   4.3.7.C
Husbandry
Farmer’s   . .   .   .   P   P   P   P   .   .   .   .  P   P   A   4.3.7.D
Market
Plant        . S   .   .   .   .   P   P   .   .   .   .  .   .   A
Nursery
NOTES:
[1] Some use types may be further limited in allowable zoning districts or may
require a different procedure for establishment in accordance with Section
4.7, Prohibited Uses, or Section
3.8, Overlay Zoning Districts.
[2] Uses are defined in
Article 9, Measurement and Definitions.
[3] Manufactured housing is only permitted on lots in the manufactured home
overlay district.
 
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-18,
passed 10-4-2021 ; Ord. 2024-09, passed 9-11-2023)
4.3.   USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
Use-specific standards are the requirements applied to individual use types,
unless otherwise stated to the contrary in this Ordinance. This section
identifies the use-specific standards applied to principal use types identified
in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, as subject to "use-specific standards."
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.3.1.   Standards Applied to All Uses
Buildings of 50,000 square feet in area or that are comprised of materials that
prohibit or degrade emergency communications signals from public safety
providers shall include bidirectional repeaters for emergency services radio
transmission.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.3.2.   Standards Applied to Any Special Use
Any use type in this Ordinance subject to the requirement to obtain a special
use permit by
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, shall be subject to any applicable use
specific standards in Section
4.3, Use-Specific Standards, as well as the following requirements. Special use
permit applications shall only be approved if the BOA finds that the use, as
proposed, or as proposed with conditions will:
   A.   Be in harmony with the area and not substantially injurious to the
value of properties in the general vicinity;
   B.   Be in conformance with all special requirements applicable to the use;
   C.   Will not adversely affect the health or safety of the public; and
   D.   Will adequately address the following review factors:
      1.   Site circulation and access;
      2.   Off-street parking and loading;
      3.   Service entrances/areas;
      4.   Exterior lighting;
      5.   Signage;
      6.   Utilities;
      7.   Open space;
      8.   Environmental protection;
      9.   Landscaping;
      10.   Screening;
      11.   Compatibility with surrounding uses; and
      12.   Consistency with the Town's adopted policy guidance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.3.3.   Residential Use Types
   A.   Assisted Living Facility. An assisted living facility shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   If provided, shared food preparation, service, and major dining
areas shall be centrally located.
      2.   Common social and service facilities shall be provided at a minimum
rate of 30 square feet per dwelling or rooming unit in addition to the minimum
amount of required open space.
      3.   All facilities and services shall be solely for the use of residents
and their guests.
      4.   Facilities for administrative services and limited medical services
for the exclusive use of the residents may be located on the site.
      5.   For the purposes of density calculation, two bedrooms shall be
equivalent to one dwelling unit.
   B.   Boarding/Rooming House. Boarding or rooming houses shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   The property owner or lessee must reside on the same premise as the
boarding house with the structure clearly serving as that person's permanent
residence;
      2.   Separate structures, accessory buildings and garages are not
permitted to be used as boarding rooms;
      3.   No separate exterior doorways for individual boarding rooms shall be
permitted;
      4.   Parking shall be provided and comply with the standards established
for single-family detached dwellings except any additional parking beyond what
can be accommodated in a driveway no wider than to sufficiently park two cars
must be out of the required setback and yards established in that zoning
district;
      5.   Parking for boarders shall not be served by a separate driveway from
the driveway serving the principal residential structure;
      6.   Prompt disposal of all garbage in a sanitary condition is required;
and
      7.   The use shall meet all relevant requirements in the Town's Code of
Ordinances.
   C.   Bungalow Court. A bungalow court is a voluntary single-family detached
dwelling alternative that allows lot access via a shared driveway configured as
a central motor court. A bungalow court shall:
      1.   Comply with the requirements in Section
5.2, Design Guidelines;
      2.   Be located on a site of at least one acre, but not more than three
acres in area;
      3.   Be limited to single-family detached dwellings as the principal use;
      4.   Be configured so that each dwelling unit obtains vehicular access
via a common shared driveway that is:
         a.   Located on common area maintained by a homeowner's association;
         b.   Comprised of concrete, brick, or pavers; and
         c.   Located central to the development.
      5.   Be limited to no more than five dwelling units sharing the same
common shared driveway (see
Figure 4.3.3.C, Bungalow Court Development); and
      6.   Not exceed the maximum allowable density in the district where
located.
Figure 4.3.3.C: Bungalow Court Development
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-166.jpg]
   D.   Continuing Care Retirement Center (CCRC).
      1.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for these standards is to encourage
the development of appropriate and adequate housing communities for the
elderly. More specifically, these standards are intended to:
         a.   Permit creative approaches to development of a retirement center
reflecting changes in the technological methods of treatment and development;
         b.   Provide a variety of housing types, living arrangements, design,
and configuration that meet the differing needs of elderly residents;
         c.   Ensure that the types of specialized products, services, and uses
necessary for the elderly are available in close proximity to housing;
         d.   Provide for an efficient use of land that can result in smaller
networks of utilities and streets;
         e.   Ensure the safety and security of community residents;
         f.   Minimize any possible adverse impacts on surrounding
neighborhoods through the preservation of natural features, the provision of
underground utilities, and the provision of open-space areas.
      2.   Establishment.
         a.   Continuing Care Retirement Communities may be established in
accordance with the conditional rezoning provisions established in Section
2.2.24, Zoning Map Amendment.
         b.   A site plan must be submitted at the time of application that
demonstrates how the proposed CCRC, while departing from the strict application
of the conventional district requirements, is in keeping with the intent of
this Ordinance.
         c.   Development within a CCRC shall conform to the site plan approved
with establishment of the use as well as any requirements approved by the Board
of Commissioners.
         d.   Modification of the site plan may be made by the Board of
Commissioners subsequent to its initial approval upon application by the owner
of the land.
      3.   Development Density. Maximum development density is based on the
number of independent living units only and may not exceed five units per acre
except as allowed in accordance with Section
4.3.3.D.4, Density Bonus.
      4.   Density Bonus. A CCRC may exceed five dwelling units an acre in
accordance with
Table 4.3.3.D.4, CCRC Density Bonus, provided the Board of Commissioners makes
a finding that the development will result in a significantly better
environment than that would otherwise occur in accordance with the established
permitted density.
 
Table 4.3.3.D.4: CCRC Density Bonus
Amount of Useable Open Space Provided Maximum Allowable Density (Units/Acre)
(% of total development area) [1]
20 to 29.99                           5.25
30 to 39.99                           5.5
40 to 49.99                           5.75
50 or more                            6
Notes:
[1] Open space set-aside may be provided within the CCRC, as dedicated park
land outside the CCRC, or as a combination.
 
      5.   Dimensional Requirements.
Table 4.3.3.D.5, CCRC Dimensional Requirements, sets out the dimensional
standards for these uses, which shall apply in lieu of the zoning district
dimensional standards.
TABLE 4.3.3.D.5: CCRC DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Feature                                             Requirement
Minimum Development Size (acres)                    5
                       Minimum Lot Area (square     3,500
                       feet)
Single-Family Detached Minimum Front Setback (feet) 8; One side may be zero [1]
Dwellings              Minimum Side Setback (feet)  15
                       Minimum Rear Setback (feet)  15
                       Minimum Lot Width (feet)     N/A
                       Maximum Height (feet)        35
Minimum Spacing Between Buildings on the Same Lot   30 + 5 for each building
(feet)                                              story beyond 2
Maximum Building Height                             35 [2]
Total Lot Coverage in the Development (% of         70
development area)
Open Space Set-Aside (% of total development area)  20 [3]
Notes:
[1] Single-family detached homes shall be at least ten feet apart.
[2] Building height may be increased beyond 35 feet provided the setback from
all lot lines equals or exceeds the building’s height.
[3] Up to one-half of the open space set-aside may be covered by water.
 
      6.   Development Standards.
         a.   Perimeter Planting Strip. A Type B perimeter buffer configured in
accordance with Section
5.6.10, Perimeter Buffers, shall be installed around the perimeter of the
development.
         b.   Perimeter Fencing. To ensure the safety and security of residents
within a CCRC, the development shall be surrounded by a perimeter wall or fence
with a minimum height of four feet.
         c.   Access and Circulation. Access and circulation shall adequately
provide for firefighting equipment, service deliveries and refuse collection.
         d.   Underground Utilities. Underground installation of telephone,
power and cable TV lines is encouraged but not required.
         e.   Pedestrian Paths. Pedestrian paths shall form a logical, safe,
and convenient system for pedestrian and handicap access to all on-site
buildings and facilities as well as major off-site destinations.
   E.   Family Care Home.
      1.   A lot containing a family care home shall not be located within one-
half mile (2,640 feet) of another lot containing a family care home or a group
home.
      2.   Any family care home shall maintain a valid license to operate from
the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.
   F.   Group Home. A group home shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   A lot containing a group home shall not be located within one-half
mile (2,640 feet) of another lot containing a family care home or another group
home;
      2.   The use shall be operated in a manner that is compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood and shall not be detrimental to adjacent lands as a
result of traffic, noise, refuse, parking, loitering, or other activities;
      3.   The number of occupants shall in a group home shall be limited to
the maximum number that may be accommodated while at the same time complying
with all applicable Town regulations and State requirements;
      4.   The use shall maintain a residential appearance compatible with its
surroundings when proposed in a residential or mixed use district; and
      5.   The use shall meet all State requirements, as well as all applicable
housing and building code requirements.
   G.   Halfway House. A halfway house shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   A lot containing a halfway house shall not be located within one-
half mile (2,640) feet of another lot containing a bar, cocktail lounge,
nightclub, boarding or rooming house, or adult business;
      2.   The maximum number of residents in a halfway house shall be limited
to five in addition to any staff or landowners and their families;
      3.   Visitation by members of the public to a resident living in a
halfway house may only take place between the hours of 7:00 AM and 7:00 PM;
      4.   The use shall meet all State requirements, as well as all applicable
housing and building code requirements; and
      5.   The use shall include a sign, visible from outside the front
entrance, the lists an emergency contact name and telephone number that is
available 24 hours a day.
   H.   Live/Work Dwelling. A live/work dwelling shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   The residential portion of the building shall occupy at least 50
percent of the gross floor area.
      2.   The nonresidential portion of the building is limited to an office,
personal service, retail sales, or restaurant use type.
      3.   Drive-through facilities are prohibited.
      4.   Signage for the nonresidential portion of the building shall be
limited to wall signage or projecting signage.
   I.   Manufactured Dwelling. A manufactured dwelling (or manufactured home)
shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   It shall be located on an individual lot in the MHO district;
      2.   It shall be occupied only as a single family dwelling;
      3.   It shall be served by public water and sewer;
      4.   If shall be configured in accordance with the standards established
by the North Carolina Department of Insurance and the most current version of
the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes;
      5.   It shall maintain a minimum width of 16 feet;
      6.   It shall be oriented with the longest axis parallel to the lot
frontage, to the maximum extent practicable;
      7.   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles, and transporting lights shall
be removed;
      8.   It shall include a continuous, permanent masonry foundation or
masonry curtain wall of solid brick or brick veneer, unpierced except for
required ventilation and access, installed under the perimeter;
      9.   It shall include stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and
other means of entrance and exit that are installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the State Building Code(s). They shall be
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground;
      10.   It shall maintain exterior siding comparable in composition,
appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard
residential construction, which consists of one or more of the following:
         a.   Vinyl or aluminum lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed
that of flat white paint);
         b.   Cedar or other wood siding;
         c.   Stucco siding;
         d.   Brick or stone siding.
      11.   It shall maintain a roof pitch with a minimum vertical rise of
three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run;
      12.   It shall include a roof finished with a Class C or better roofing
material that is commonly used in standard residential construction; and
      13.   It shall provide an eave projection of no less than 6 inches, which
may include a gutter.
   J.   Manufactured Dwelling Park. Manufactured dwellings located within a
manufactured dwelling park lawfully established prior to January 1, 2020 are
nonconforming uses and shall comply with the standards in Section
4.3.3.1, Manufactured Dwelling.
   K.   Mobile Homes. Lawfully established mobile homes existing on January 1,
2020 are nonconforming uses and shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   New Mobile Homes Prohibited. The establishment of a mobile home on a
lot or in a mobile home park after January 1, 2020 is prohibited.
      2.   Replacement of Existing Mobile Homes. Replacement of a lawfully
established mobile home shall be in accordance with Section
7.6.3.B, Manufactured or Mobile Homes.
      3.   Additional Standards. All mobile homes which are hereafter placed
either on individual lots or in spaces in mobile home parks shall comply with
the following requirements.
         a.   Any mobile home constructed before July 1, 1970, must be approved
by Underwriters' Laboratories and any mobile home constructed after that time
must meet all applicable state and federal standards.
         b.   All mobile homes shall be tied down in accordance with the State
Regulations for Mobile Homes and Modular Housing.
         c.   A continuous foundation enclosure, unpierced except for required
ventilation and access, shall be installed. The enclosure may consist of brick
or concrete block, or other masonry, or wood, rigid vinyl or metal fabricated
for this purpose.
         d.   Any wood framing for foundation skirting shall be constructed
with treated lumber. The foundation or skirt shall be in compliance with all
applicable codes and regulations.
   L.   Mobile Home Park. Mobile home parks lawfully established before January
1, 2020 are nonconforming uses and shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Replacement of Existing Mobile Homes. Replacement of an existing,
lawfully established mobile home shall be in accordance with Section
7.6.3.B, Manufactured or Mobile Homes.
      2.   Expansions. Expansion of an existing mobile home park beyond its
lawfully established boundaries in existence on January 1, 2020 is prohibited.
      3.   Individual Spaces.
         a.   All mobile homes will be located on individual mobile home
spaces.
         b.   Spaces served by municipal or community water and sewer systems
shall be at least 8,000 square feet of ground area.
         c.   Minimum space size for mobile homes using septic tanks shall be
as determined by the Wake County Environmental Services, but in no case less
than 10,000 square feet whether or not a municipal or community water supply is
available.
         d.   Every mobile home space will be at least 75 feet wide and clearly
delineated.
         e.   There will be at least 15 feet clearance between mobile homes
from every in-park alignment and 25 feet adjacent to entrance streets.
      4.   Mobile Home Placement. No mobile home will be located less than 15
feet from any building within the mobile home park, no closer than 15 feet from
any exterior boundary line of the mobile home park and no closer than 15 feet
to the edge of any interior street right-of-way.
      5.   Access to Individual Spaces. No mobile home space will have
unobstructed access to public streets and highways except through an interior
drive.
      6.   Perimeter Screening. Any mobile home park with more than four spaces
will have a visual buffer (such as neatly trimmed shrubbery) six feet in height
surrounding the mobile home park.
      7.   Travel Trailers.
         a.   Combination usage of travel-type trailers and conventional mobile
homes shall not be allowed.
         b.   The developer may provide vacant spaces for travel-type trailer
spaces on a semipermanent basis (not more than 60 days during one calendar
year), as long as they meet all state, county and municipal regulations, and
can be served with sanitary facilities and are kept in a separate area from the
permanent residents.
      8.   Tiedowns Required.
         a.   Each mobile home shall be required by the park director to
install tiedown apparatus for each unit. These tiedowns shall be in accordance
with the mobile home manufacturer's instructions if the tiedown system is
designed by a registered architect or engineer.
         b.   If no set of instructions is available or if the system has not
been designed by a licensed architect or engineer, then it shall be designed in
accordance with the North Carolina Department of Insurance manufactured home
regulations.
      9.   Additions.
         a.   Any structural additions to mobile homes other than those which
are built as part of the unit and designed to extend from it shall be erected
only after a building permit shall have been obtained and approved, and the
additions shall conform to the building code of the governing unit, where
applicable, or shall meet the standards of special regulatory amendments
adopted with respect to the additions.
         b.   The building permit shall specify whether each structural
addition may remain permanently, must be removed when the mobile home is
removed on a permanent or semi-permanent basis, or must be removed within
specified length of time after the mobile home is removed from the park or
site.
         c.   Structural alterations existing on November 7, 2011 shall be
removed within 30 days after the mobile home which they serve is moved unless
attached to another mobile home on the same site within that period.
      10.   Management. In each mobile home park, the permittee or duly
authorized attendant or caretaker shall be in charge at all times to keep the
mobile home park, its facilities, and equipment in a clean, orderly, safe,
sanitary condition.
      11.   Nonconforming Mobile Home Parks.
         a.   Existing mobile home parks which provide mobile home spaces
having a width or area less than that herein above described, may continue to
operate with spaces of existing width and area, but in no event shall any like
nonconforming mobile home park be allowed to expand unless the extensions meet
the requirements of this chapter.
         b.   Any like nonconforming park area shall be required to properly
conform whenever the park area is over one-half void of permanent mobile homes
on available sites.
      12.   Allowable Uses. Permitted uses in mobile home parks shall be as
follows:
         a.   Mobile homes;
         b.   Structural additions subject to these standards;
         c.   An administrative office to serve mobile home park;
         d.   Coin-operated laundries to serve the mobile home park only if the
laundry is attached to municipal sewer facilities; and
         e.   Private recreational facilities.
      13.   Flooding.
         a.   The mobile home park shall be located in an area and on soil that
is not susceptible to flooding.
         b.   The mobile home park shall be adequately graded so as to prevent
any water accumulation on the premises.
         c.   All ditch banks shall be sloped and seeded in order to ensure
proper run-off and an adequate drainage pattern to avoid erosion and the
formation of gullies.
      14.   Exterior Lighting.
         a.   Lighting shall be designed to produce a minimum of 0.1 footcandle
at street level throughout the system.
         b.   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street
intersections and steps or stepped ramps shall be individually illuminated with
a minimum of 0.3 footcandle.
      15.   Storage Provided. A storage building sufficient for the entire
mobile home park shall be provided for the storage of boats, motorcycles, and
similar items.
   M.   Multi-Family Dwelling. Multi-family development shall comply with the
following provisions:
      1.   Building Placement.
         a.   A minimum ten feet of separation shall be maintained between all
buildings in the development.
         b.   Buildings must be set back from private drives and parking lots a
minimum of ten feet as measured from back of curb or edge of pavement, if no
curb is provided.
         c.   Buildings shall be setback from public streets in the development
in accordance with the street setbacks for the district where located.
      2.   Building Length.
         a.   The maximum length of a multi-family building shall be 250 linear
feet.
         b.   No maximum building length shall be applied if the building is
designed for occupancy by the elderly and it has central facilities for dining
and recreation.
         c.   In no instance shall the provision of a firewall between
different building sections constitute two separate buildings for the purpose
of meeting the building length requirement.
      3.   Design. Multi-family development shall comply with the applicable
design standards in Section
5.3.3, Multi-Family Residential Design Standards.
      4.   Recreation Facilities. Active recreation facilities must be placed a
minimum of 50 feet from adjacent land used for single-family detached
residential purposes.
      5.   Utilities. All electric, communications, water and sewer utility
lines shall be installed underground.
      6.   Condominiums. Multi-family development configured as condominiums
shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Condominiums shall conform to the use and development
requirements of this Ordinance for the zoning district(s) where located.
         b.   Condominiums shall conform to the requirements of the North
Carolina Condominium Act, in Chapter 47C of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
         c.   Condominium ownership may be created by the owner or co-owners of
a structure(s) by an express declaration of their intention to submit such
property to the provisions of the North Carolina Condominium Act, which
declaration shall be subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners and
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the county where the
development is located.
      7.   Screening. Utility areas such as clothes drying yards and outdoor
storage areas shall be fully screened from public streets and adjacent lots
zoned for single-family detached residential dwellings.
   N.   Pocket Neighborhood.
      1.   Purpose and Intent. A pocket neighborhood is a group of smaller
single- family detached dwellings built in close proximity to one another
around a small green or commonly-owned open space with off-street parking areas
to the rear or in common areas. These standards are intended to provide greater
housing options as well as providing a means for accommodating infill in
established portions of the Town.
      2.   Site Configuration.
         a.   Development Size. It shall be located on a parcel of land at
least one- third (1/3) of an acre and no greater than 4 acres in area.
         b.   Allowable Uses.
         i.   Pocket neighborhoods shall be limited to single-family detached
dwellings and accessory uses.
         ii.   Accessory uses may include common open space, a common building
for the purposes of storage or recreation, outdoor recreational features, and
garages (see
Figure 4.3.3.N: Pocket Neighborhood Design).
Figure 4.3.3.N: Pocket Neighborhood Design
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-168.jpg]
         c.   Number of Dwellings. It shall include at least four dwellings but
no more than 12 dwellings. In no instance shall the gross density of the
development exceed a 10 percent increase in the density of the underlying base
zoning district.
         d.   Common Open Space.
            i.   It shall include common open space that comprises at least 40
percent of the total site and includes improved pedestrian walkways that
provide pedestrian access to each dwelling, shared parking areas, common
buildings, and the public sidewalk network. The common open space shall include
a central green, lawn, or garden area fronting the dwellings, a shared,
centrally-located off-street parking area, and a perimeter buffer area that
incorporates landscaping materials, existing vegetation, or other features to
buffer the pocket neighborhood from adjacent development.
            ii.   The central green or lawn area shall include at least 300
square feet of area for each dwelling in the development.
            iii.   A common building located within the common open space area
may be included as an accessory use, but in no instance shall the common
building exceed 1,500 square feet or serve as a permanent dwelling unit.
         e.   Lot Frontage.
            i.   At least 60 percent of the individual building lots shall
front the common open space area, not a street or alley.
            ii.   Up to 40 percent of the lots may front a street. Homes on
street-facing lots shall include a front porch and shall not include an
attached garage that faces the street.
         f.   Surface Parking.
            i.   Pocket neighborhoods are exempt from the parking standards in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
            ii.   The pocket neighborhood may include a shared parking area
that accommodates resident and guest parking.
            iii.   Surface parking areas shall include at least one parking
space for each dwelling unit plus one designated guest parking space for every
four dwelling units.
            iv.   Provision of resident parking spaces within a shared parking
area is not required in cases where resident parking is provided through
individual driveways or by parking spaces along alleys.
            v.   In no instance shall parking areas be more than 300 linear
feet from the dwelling it serves.
         g.   Detached Shared Garages. If provided, detached garages serving
more than one dwelling shall be accessed via a private drive or alley. A garage
shall not exceed five car bays or include individual garage doors wider than 12
feet each.
         h.   Storage Space. Each individual dwelling shall have at least 40
square feet of covered storage space outside the heated floor area. Storage
space may be located on an individual lot or on common land adjacent to a
common building.
         i.   Perimeter Buffer. A pocket neighborhood shall incorporate a Type
B perimeter buffer along all lot lines shared with existing single-family
detached dwellings.
         j.   Private Drives. Vehicular entryways into pocket neighborhoods and
accessways serving off-street parking areas and individual dwelling lots shall
be configured as private drives.
      3.   Individual Lot Configuration.
Table 4.3.3.N.3: Pocket Neighborhood Lots, sets out the dimensional
requirements for individual lots.
TABLE 4.3.3.N.3: POCKET NEIGHBORHOOD LOTS
Feature                    Requirement
Minimum lot size (sq ft)   None
Maximum lot coverage (%)   75
Minimum lot width (ft)     20
Minimum front setback (ft) 10 from open space; zoning district requirement from
                           street [1]
Minimum side setback (ft)  3 one side; 15 other side [1]
Minimum rear setback (ft)  None [2]
Notes:
[1] Porch steps, ramps, fences, and walkways may encroach into the front
setback in accordance with Section
9.3, Rules of Measurement, but no other structures shall be permitted to
encroach into the required setback.
[2] When an individual lot includes a driveway, the minimum rear setback shall
be 20 feet.
 
         a.   Use Easement. Any lot abutting another lot used for residential
purposes in a pocket neighborhood shall be subject to a use easement on one
side that extends from the lot line to the exterior wall of the dwelling (see
Figure 4.3.3.N.3.a: Use Easement). The purpose for the use easement is to
ensure each dwelling has a private outdoor space.
Figure 4.3.3.N.3.A : Use Easement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-170.jpg]
      4.   Dwelling Unit Configuration.
         a.   Maximum Height. A dwelling unit shall not exceed 1 1/2 stories,
or 24 feet, above grade.
         b.   Dwelling Size.
            i.   A dwelling unit shall be at least 600 square feet in floor
area, but not more than 2,000 square feet in floor area.
            ii.   At least 2 dwellings in a pocket neighborhood shall maintain
a total square footage that differs by at least 200 square feet in floor area
from the average square footage of all other dwellings. Nothing shall prohibit
a configuration where all dwellings are different sizes.
         c.   Fences. Pocket neighborhoods are exempted from the standards in
Section
5.5, Fences and Walls, but shall comply with the following:
            i.   Fences within front yards or side yards forward of the front
facade plane shall not exceed three feet in height.
            ii.   Fences in rear yards or side yards behind the front facade
plane shall not exceed six feet in height.
            iii.   In no instance shall a fence be placed within a use or
access easement.
         d.   Homeowner's Association. A pocket neighborhood shall include a
homeowner(s) or property owner(s) association that maintains control of common
areas and takes responsibility for maintenance of common features in the
neighborhood established and configured in accordance with Section
6.5, Owners' Associations.
   O.   Single-Family Attached Dwelling. Single-family attached development
shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   Building Placement.
         a.   A minimum ten feet of separation shall be maintained between all
buildings in the development.
         b.   Buildings must be set back from private drives and parking lots a
minimum of ten feet as measured from back of curb or edge of pavement, if no
curb is provided.
         c.   Buildings shall be setback from public streets in the development
in accordance with the street setbacks for the district where located.
      2.   Maximum Number of Units per Building.
Table 4.3.3.Q.2: Maximum Number of Units in a Buildings, sets out the maximum
number of attached residential dwelling units allowed in a single building by
zoning district:
TABLE 4.3.3.O.2: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF UNITS IN A BUILDING
Zoning District Maximum Number of Units in a Single Building
R4 & R6         6
RMF             12
GC              12
OI              8
DTC             5
DTP             8
 
      3.   Recreation Facilities. Active recreation facilities must be placed a
minimum of 50 feet from adjacent land used for single-family detached
residential purposes.
      4.   Utilities. All electric, communications, water and sewer utility
lines shall be installed underground.
      5.   Condominiums. Single-family attached development configured as
condominiums shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Condominiums shall conform to the use and development
requirements of this Ordinance for the zoning district(s) where located.
         b.   Condominiums shall conform to the requirements of the North
Carolina Condominium Act, in Chapter 47C of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
         c.   Condominium ownership may be created by the owner or co-owners of
a structure(s) by an express declaration of their intention to submit such
property to the provisions of the North Carolina Condominium Act, which
declaration shall be subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners and
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the county where the
development is located.
      6.   Access to Development.
         a.   Single-family attached developments shall abut a public street.
         b.   Individual single-family attached lots need not abut a public
street provided that every dwelling unit shall be provided access to their
property via either a public right-of-way or a private vehicular or pedestrian
way owned by the individual lot owner in fee or in common ownership with other
property owners in the townhouse development.
         c.   Adequate access shall be provided for firefighting equipment,
service deliveries and refuse collections.
      7.   Vehicular Access to Individual Dwellings. Vehicular access points to
individual dwellings or individual lots within a single-family attached
development shall only be from the side or rear of the lot.
      8.   Guest Parking Spaces Required.
         a.   Single-family attached residential developments of three or more
dwelling units shall provide shared or common guest parking facilities in
accordance with the standards in
Table 5.8.4.H: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
         b.   Guest parking spaces shall be evenly distributed around the
development, to the maximum extent practicable.
         c.   Guest parking areas shall be served by pedestrian access that
connects to the existing public sidewalk, greenway, or trail network serving
the development.
   P.   Single-Family Detached Dwelling. New single-family detached dwellings
constructed after January 1, 2020 shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Finished Floor Height. Except for single-family detached dwellings
subject to a deed restricting limiting the age of residents to 55 years of age
or older, the finished floor elevation shall be at least 18 inches above the
finished grade adjacent to the home's primary entrance.
      2.   Ingress/Egress on Every Side. Single-family detached dwellings shall
be configured so that each side of the dwelling includes some form of ingress
or egress capable of allowing emergency exit from or entrance into the
dwelling. Windows, doors, or other wall penetrations shall be credited towards
these standards. Skylights shall also be credited towards these standards in
cases where there is sufficient access to the ground from the roof.
      3.   Site Access. Site access to single-family detached dwellings shall
only be in accordance with the standards in
Table 4.3.3.P.3: Single Family Site Access Standards:
TABLE 4.3.3.P.3: SINGLE-FAMILY SITE ACCESS STANDARDS
Lot Configuration [1]                   Allowable Vehicular Access Point
                                        Location (lot line) [2]
Lots with a lot width of 70 linear feet Front, side, or rear
or more
Lots with a lot width of less than 70   Interior lot: rear
linear feet                             Corner lot: side or rear
Cul-de-sac lots                         Front or rear
Lots in a conservation subdivision      Front, side, or rear
Lots in a bungalow court                Front, side, or rear
Lots in a pocket neighborhood           Vehicular access to individual lot not
                                        required
Notes:
[1] Standards may be reduced by up to 10 feet as part of a conditional
rezoning application.
[2] Lots obtaining vehicular access from a NCDOT-maintained street may be
accessed from a location identified in a driveway permit from the NCDOT
regardless of the standards in this table.
 
      4.   Design Guideline Compliance Encouraged. Voluntary compliance with
the standards in Section
5.2, Design Guidelines, is encouraged.
   Q.   Triplex/Quadplex. Triplex and quadplex dwellings shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   The dwelling shall face the street from which the dwelling derives
its street address.
      2.   If a parking lot is provided, it shall be located to the interior
side or rear of the dwelling and not be located between the dwelling and the
street.
      3.   Voluntary compliance with the standards in Section
5.2, Design Guidelines, is encouraged.
   R.   Upper-Story Residential.
      1.   Upper-story residential dwelling units shall occupy the second or
higher floor of a building with a nonresidential use on the ground floor.
      2.   Upper-story residential units configured as condominiums shall
comply with the standards in Section
4.3.3.Q.5, Condominiums.
      3.   Except for buildings used solely for industrial purposes, new
buildings containing upper-story residential uses shall comply with the
standards in Section
5.3.2, Mixed-Use Design Standards. Lawfully established building in place prior
to January 1, 2020 shall comply with the standards in Section
5.3.2, Mixed-Use Design Standards, to the extent practical.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
4.3.4   Institutional Uses.
   A.   Adult Day Care Center. An adult day care center use shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   The use shall be certified by the North Carolina Department of
Health and Human Services.
      2.   The use shall obtain all required licenses and permits from the
State.
      3.   The use shall include a fenced outdoor gathering area of at least 25
square feet per patron receiving care.
      4.   The use includes a pick-up and drop-off area that allows patrons to
enter and exit vehicles without crossing a parking lot or vehicular accessway.
      5.   The use must be at least 1,320 linear feet from another adult day
care use.
   B.   Antenna Collocation (Major or Minor). Major and minor antenna
collocations shall comply with the applicable standards in Section
4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities.
   C.   Auditorium. Auditoriums shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   The parcel or site shall have an area of at least three acres.
      2.   The building shall be located at least 500 feet from any lot in a
single-family residential zoning district.
      3.   No products shall be sold on-site except those that are clearly
incidental and integral to training programs and seminars conducted in the
auditorium (e.g., food items, shirts, glasses and mugs, pens and pencils, and
similar items bearing the logo of conference or seminar sponsors or
participants).
   D.   Broadcasting Studio. Broadcasting studios shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   The use shall be operated in a manner that is compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood and shall not be detrimental to adjacent lands as a
result of traffic, noise, refuse, parking, loitering, or other activities;
      2.   Any broadcasting towers associated with the use shall be setback
from all lot lines a minimum distance equal to the height of the tower;
      3.   The above-grade floor area associated with the use shall not exceed
5,000 square feet; and
      4.   The use shall not include a helipad or helicopter landing
facilities.
   E.   Cemetery, Columbarium, or Mausoleum. Except as otherwise required in
this UDO, new cemeteries and the expansion of existing cemeteries (as a
principal use) shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   New cemeteries shall be located on a site or parcel with an area of
at least two-and-one-half acres. This standard shall not apply to existing
cemeteries or the expansion of existing cemeteries.
      2.   New cemeteries shall be located on a site or parcel that fronts a
major arterial or collector street. This standard shall not apply to existing
cemeteries or the expansion of existing cemeteries.
      3.   Cemeteries shall include drive aisles or vehicular accessways of at
least 12 feet in width or greater as needed for the parking and maneuvering of
funeral processions.
      4.   Interments shall take place at least 25 feet from any lot line and
comply with all requirements of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   F.   Child Day Care Center. Child day care centers shall comply with the
standards in Article 7, Chapter 110, of the North Carolina General Statutes,
and the following:
      1.   Evidence of compliance with all applicable State standards,
including licensure, shall be furnished to the Planning Director by the
operator of the use prior to the commencement of operation.
      2.   Child day care centers shall maintain a minimum lot area of at least
6,000 square feet plus an additional 100 square feet for each child enrolled in
the facility in excess of ten.
      3.   Lots containing child day care centers shall include at least 100
square feet of well-drained, completely fenced, outside play area per child
enrolled in the facility (excluding infants). Access drives or parking areas
shall not be credited towards the play area requirements.
   G.   Community/Youth/Senior Center. A community center, senior center, or
youth center shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Not front on or gain access from a residential local street.
      2.   Outdoor courts, swimming pools, and athletic fields shall be located
at least 50 feet from any lot line abutting a single-family residential
district.
      3.   Uses in residential districts shall be on a lot of at least two
acres.
   H.   Coliseum, Arena Convention Center, Conference Center. Coliseums,
arenas, convention centers, and conference centers shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   The parcel or site shall have an area of at least five acres.
      2.   The building shall be located at least 500 feet from any lot in a
single-family residential zoning district.
      3.   Dining and banquet facilities may be provided for employees,
trainees, and conferees, provided the gross floor area devoted to such
facilities does not exceed 50 percent of the total floor area of the principal
building.
      4.   On-site recreational facilities may be provided for use by
employees, trainees, or conferees.
      5.   No products shall be sold on-site except those that are clearly
incidental and integral to training programs and seminars conducted in the
center (e.g., food items, shirts, glasses and mugs, pens and pencils, and
similar items bearing the logo of conference or seminar sponsors or
participants).
   I.   Drug/Alcohol Treatment Facility. A drug or alcohol treatment facility
shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Be at least 500 feet from any other such facility; and
      2.   Be at least 500 feet from any lot in a single-family residential
district, school, child care center, and religious institution that has a child
care center or school.
   J.   Fraternal Club or Lodge. When proposed within a residential district,
the OI district or the NC district, clubs and lodges shall comply with the
following:
      1.   The club or lodge shall be on a lot of at least one acre in area.
      2.   No structure, off-street parking, or activity area shall be closer
than 40 feet to any lot line.
      3.   A Type A buffer configured in accordance with Section
5.6.10, Perimeter Buffers, shall be provided along all side and rear lot lines.
      4.   Exterior lighting shall be so shielded as to cast no direct light
upon adjacent lands.
      5.   Public address systems are prohibited except when contained entirely
within a building.
   K.   Helicopter Landing Pad. A helicopter landing pad shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   The helicopter landing pad shall provide adequate land area for safe
take-offs and landings in accordance with standards of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA).
      2.   When located within 500 feet of a single-family residential zoning
district, or existing single-family residential use, a helicopter landing pad
shall provide a Type A buffer along side and rear lot lines to ensure the
facility does not adversely impact surrounding uses.
   L.   Hospital. A hospital shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Be located on a site or parcel with an area of at least five acres;
      2.   Be located a parcel that fronts or has direct access to a major
arterial or collector street;
      3.   Locate the emergency vehicle entrance on a major arterial or
collector street;
      4.   Not locate an emergency vehicle entrance in an area across the
street from a residential zoning district;
      5.   Be served by a public water and wastewater system; and
      6.   Ensure that principal structures are located at least 100 feet from
any lot line.
   M.   Religious Institution. Religious institutions shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   A religious institution with seating for 500 or more persons shall:
         a.   Be on a lot of at least three acres in area.
         b.   Meet the minimum off-street parking standards for a religious
institution as well as for any accessory uses (e.g., a school, day care, etc.)
in
Table 5.8.4.H: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
      2.   Regardless of the zoning district where located, religious
institutions of any size shall provide a Type A buffer along lot lines shared
with single-family residential dwellings.
   N.   School, High/Middle. A high or middle school shall not front or gain
primary access from a local street.
   O.   School, Vocational. Facilities within a vocational school which
generate significant noise or fumes, such as auto body or engine repair,
industrial/auto body painting, or manufacturing processes, and that are
adjacent to a residential district shall be at least 100 feet from any lot line
abutting the residential district.
   P.   Small Wireless Facility.
      1.   Small wireless facilities located outside a public right-of-way
shall comply with the applicable standards in Section
4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities.
      2.   Small wireless facilities located within a public right-of-way shall
comply with the Town's Right-of-Way Management Ordinance.
   Q.   Telecommunications Tower, Major, Minor, or Concealed. Major, minor, and
concealed telecommunications towers shall comply with the applicable standards
in Section
4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities.
   R.   Temporary Wireless Facility. Temporary Wireless Facilities shall comply
with the applicable standards in Section
4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities.
   S.   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities.
      1.   Purpose and Intent. This section establishes general standards for
the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities that will provide for the
public health, safety, and welfare. The standards are intended to ensure that
residents, businesses, and public safety operations in the Town have reliable
access to wireless telecommunications services. More specifically, the
provisions of this section are intended to:
         a.   Ensure adequate protection of residential areas and uses from
potential adverse impacts of wireless telecommunications facilities, and to
generally encourage the location of these facilities in areas where adverse
impact on the community is minimal;
         b.   Encourage the placement of wireless telecommunications facilities
in non-residential areas;
         c.   Minimize the number of new telecommunications towers in the Town;
         d.   Create conditions where wireless telecommunications service
providers are able to provide wireless telecommunications services effectively
and efficiently in accordance with state and federal law;
         e.   Strongly encourage the joint use or collocation of new and
existing wireless telecommunications facilities so as to minimize the number of
new telecommunications towers throughout the Town;
         f.   Establish collocation and concealed towers as the preferred
options for the accommodation of wireless telecommunications equipment; and
         g.   Ensure that wireless telecommunications facilities located within
the public right of way do not obstruct sight distance triangles or create
safety hazards for pedestrians or bicyclists.
      2.   Applicability of these Standards. The standards in this section
shall apply to all wireless telecommunications facilities except for the
following, which are
exempted from these standards but remain subject to all other applicable
standards in this Ordinance:
         a.   Removal of antennas, antenna support structures, or wireless
telecommunications equipment on an existing telecommunications tower, utility
pole, vertical projection, or equipment compound that does not result in a
substantial modification;
         b.   The operation of a small wireless facility solely within the
interior of a structure, stadium, or athletic facility;
         c.   Routine maintenance on an existing wireless telecommunication
facility;
         d.   Installation, modification, or operation of a micro-wireless
facility, receive-only television antenna, or receive-only radio antenna for
noncommercial use; and
         e.   Installation, modification, or operation of FCC-licensed amateur
("ham") radio equipment.
      3.   General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities. The following requirements shall apply to all
new wireless telecommunications facilities and any modifications to an existing
wireless telecommunications facility that exceeds the scope of routine
maintenance, as defined in this section.
         a.   Building Permit Required. Prior to installation or modification
exceeding the scope of routine maintenance, all wireless telecommunications
facilities shall receive a building permit in accordance with the requirements
in this Ordinance.
         b.   Compliance with Federal and State Regulations.
            i.   All wireless telecommunication facilities shall comply with or
exceed current standards and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and any other agency of the
federal government that regulates telecommunications facilities.
            ii.   In addition to federal requirements, all wireless
telecommunication facilities shall comply with or exceed current standards and
regulations of the State of North Carolina pertaining to wireless
telecommunications facilities in Sections 160D-930 through 160D-938 in the
North Carolina General Statutes.
         c.   Interference. No wireless telecommunication facility shall
disturb, diminish, or interfere with public safety, radio, television, or other
wireless communications signals, in accordance with FCC requirements.
         d.   Structurally Sound. All elements of a wireless telecommunication
facility shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Town, that the equipment
and the structure supporting the equipment is structurally sound and can
accommodate the proposed equipment and appurtenances.
         e.   Sight Distance at Intersections. All elements of a wireless
telecommunication facility shall be located outside of, and shall in no way
obstruct, required sight distances at street intersections. This requirement
shall apply to existing streets as well as to future street intersections that
have been designed or where right-of-way is currently being protected by the
Town.
         f.   Accessory Equipment.
            i.   Accessory equipment, including any buildings, cabinets, or
shelters, shall be used only for the purposes of housing wireless
telecommunications equipment and other supplies in direct support of the
operation of the wireless telecommunications facility.
            ii.   Any equipment or materials not used in direct support of such
operation shall not be stored on the site.
            iii.   When a generator is operated at a wireless telecommunication
facility, it shall comply with the applicable standards in Chapter 97: Noise,
of this Code of Ordinances.
         g.   Site Grading. Grading and vegetation removal for a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be limited to the area necessary for the
facility and any required accessory structures, including: stormwater
management devices, access drives, or off-street parking.
         h.   Underground Equipment. Nothing shall limit the Town from
requiring ground-based or pole-mounted telecommunications equipment to be
located underground or otherwise concealed in a manner that obstructs its view
from the public realm in the following locations:
            i.   Historic districts (local or otherwise);
            ii.   Portions of Town subject to design standards or controls; or
            iii.   Portions of the Town's planning jurisdiction subject to
adopted policy guidance that indicates the area as a pedestrian-oriented area
or an area where the appearance of development is identified as one of the key
policy considerations in preserving the Town's established character.
         i.   Lighting.
            i.   Lighting of a wireless telecommunications facility shall be
limited to that required for compliance with FAA minimum standards.
            ii.   Any lighting required by the FAA must be of the minimum
intensity and number of flashes per minute (i.e., the longest duration between
flashes) allowable by the FAA.
            iii.   Nighttime strobing or flashing lights are prohibited, unless
required by the FAA.
            iv.   Lights serving equipment compounds or other service areas
shall be configured so that the source of illumination is not visible from off-
site areas.
            v.   All exterior lighting shall comply with the lighting
regulations of this Ordinance, or the Design Manual, whichever is more strict.
         j.   Signage.
            i.   Signage shall be limited to safety or informational signage
identifying the party responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
facility and any additional security or safety signs, as necessary in the
opinion of the Town.
            ii.   If the electrical service is in excess of 220 volts, the
wireless telecommunications facility shall include signs located at least every
twenty feet around the perimeter that display the words "HIGH VOLTAGE - DANGER"
in bold, high contrast letters with minimum height of four inches for each
letter.
            iii.   No signage shall be posted higher than 15 feet above grade.
            iv.   Signage required by this section shall be considered to be
safety or governmental signage that is not subject to 1st Amendment protection
regarding the regulation of sign content.
         k.   Unauthorized Access Prohibited. Telecommunications towers and
vertical projections with wireless telecommunications equipment with a height
of 30 feet above grade or more shall be designed or configured to prevent
unauthorized persons from climbing on the wireless telecommunication facility
whether through the use of walls or fencing with a minimum height of six feet
above grade, or other anti-climbing devices.
      4.   Standards for Specific Types of Wireless Telecommunication
Facilities. The following standards shall apply to the identified type of
wireless telecommunications facility, and shall apply in addition to the
standards in Section
4.3.4.S.3, General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities.
a. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER, MAJOR
New or replacement major telecommunications towers shall comply with the standards in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, Section
4.3.4.S.3, General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless Telecommunications Facilities, and
the following standards:
                    a.   A new or replacement telecommunications tower with a height of 30 feet or
      Towers        more above grade is a major telecommunications tower subject to these standards.
i.    Distinguished b.   A new or replacement telecommunications tower with a height less than 30
                    feet above grade shall be considered a minor telecommunications tower and shall
                    be subject to the standards for a concealed or minor telecommunications tower.
                    a.   Telecommunications towers shall be configured as a monopole or be concealed
      Type of       in accordance with Section
ii.   Structure     4.3.4.S.4.b, Telecommunications Tower, Concealed.
                    b.   Construction of new guyed or self-supporting telecommunications tower
                    configurations are prohibited.
                    a.   Towers and their associated antennas shall be set back at least one foot
                    from the front, side, and rear lot lines for each foot of overall wireless
                    telecommunications facility height.
                    b.   In cases where an existing telecommunication tower's height is increased or
                    where an existing telecommunications tower is replaced in order to accommodate a
iii.  Setbacks      major or minor collocation, the existing or replacement tower shall comply with
                    the setback requirements in subsection (a) above, to the maximum extent
                    practicable.
                    c.   Accessory structures, including equipment cabinets, and other ground-based
                    equipment shall conform with the applicable dimensional requirements for the
                    zoning district where located.
                    a.   The maximum height (including antenna and other appurtenances) for any new,
                    replaced, or collocated wireless telecommunication tower is 200 feet, as
                    measured from the adjacent pre-construction grade to the top of the highest
                    appurtenance on the tower.
                    b.   In no instance shall the collocation of an eligible facility or a
      Maximum       collocation that constitutes a substantial modification result in a
iv.   Height        telecommunication tower with a height that exceeds 200 feet above the adjacent
                    pre-construction grade.
                    c.   In cases where a telecommunications tower is mounted to or on top of a
                    building, the overall height of the building and the attached tower shall not
                    exceed 200 feet from the adjacent preconstruction grade. The adjacent pre-
                    construction grade shall be the grade at the base of the building closest to the
                    tower.
                    a.   Telecommunications towers shall be designed to accommodate the present and
                    future needs of the owner and as well as the collocation of additional
                    equipment, in accordance with the following standards:
                    i.   Towers of 30 to 80 feet in height shall be configured to accommodate the
                    collocation of at least two wireless telecommunications service provider's
                    equipment.
      Collocation   ii.   Towers of 81 to 130 feet in height shall be configured to accommodate the
v.    Required      collocation of at least three wireless telecommunications service provider's
                    equipment.
                    iii.   Towers of 131 feet in height or higher shall be configured to accommodate
                    the collocation of at least four wireless telecommunications service provider's
                    equipment.
                    iv.   In no instance shall an existing telecommunications tower be permitted to
                    remain in place for a period of more than 14 days following installation of a
                    replacement telecommunications tower constructed to accommodate a collocation.
                    Telecommunication towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or be
vi.   Color         painted a neutral, matte color designed to blend with its surroundings, unless
                    otherwise required by the FAA.
                    a.   All ground-based elements, such as an equipment compound or equipment
                    cabinets, shall be completely screened from off-site views through the use of a
                    fully opaque wooden privacy fence, masonry wall, or two staggered rows of
                    evergreen shrubs located around the perimeter of the ground-based elements.
                    b.   Chain-link fencing is a ground-based element subject to these screening
vii.  Screening     requirements.
                    c.   Screening is not required in cases where ground-based equipment is not
                    visible from off-site areas.
                    d.   Landscaping material shall reach and maintain a minimum height of six feet
                    above grade within four years of planting.
                    e.   Landscaping material is not required in front of access gates, provided the
                    gates are fully opaque or are not visible from off- site areas.
                    a.   A telecommunications tower shall provide at least one off-street parking
                    space, paved with an all-weather surface, and configured to provide appropriate
viii. Off-Street    stormwater drainage.
      Parking       b.   Nothing shall prohibit the use of off-street parking associated with
                    another principal use on site or an on-street parking space from meeting this
                    requirement.
ix.   Example       The following images depict potential monopole telecommunications tower
      Images        configurations, and are provided for informational purposes only.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-172.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-174.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-176.jpg]
Typical monopole with collocated antennae Monopole with "birdcage" antenna mounts   "Mast" monopole configuration with
                                                                                    integral antennae
 
b. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER, CONCEALED
Concealed telecommunications towers shall comply with the standards in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, Section
4.3.4.S.3, General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless Telecommunications Facilities, and the
following standards:
                         a.   A concealed telecommunications tower is a telecommunications tower and
                         associated equipment that is designed to appear as something other than a
      Towers             traditional wireless telecommunications facility.
i.    Distinguished      b.   A minor wireless telecommunications tower is a use that is designed to
                         appear as a traditional wireless telecommunications facility except that the
                         maximum height of the tower portion of the facility is less than 30 feet above
                         grade.
                         a.   A concealed telecommunications tower shall be configured to conceal the
                         presence of the tower, antennas, antenna-support structures, and related
                         wireless telecommunications equipment in order to obscure its purpose as a
                         wireless telecommunications facility, to the maximum extent practicable.
                         b.   Allowable configurations include, but are not limited to: bell towers,
                         clock towers, water towers, silos, chimneys, steeples, light standards, flag
      Appearance of a    poles, or evergreen trees.
      Concealed          c.   Antennas, antenna support structures, cabling, and related appurtenances
ii.   Telecommunications shall be enclosed, camouflaged, screened, or otherwise obscured so that they are
      Tower              not readily identifiable as wireless telecommunications equipment to the casual
                         observer.
                         d.   Equipment cabinets and related structures shall be designed, located, and
                         camouflaged in a manner that is compatible with the tower portion of the
                         facility.
                         e.   Placement of ground-based wireless telecommunications equipment associated
                         with a concealed telecommunications tower is strongly encouraged to be located
                         indoors or underground.
                         a.   Concealed and minor telecommunications towers and associated accessory
                         structures, including equipment cabinets, shall comply with the applicable
                         dimensional requirements for nonresidential uses in the zoning district where
                         located.
                         b.   In no instance shall a concealed or minor telecommunications tower be
iii.  Setbacks           exempted from the minimum applicable setback requirements for nonresidential
                         uses.
                         c.   In cases where an existing concealed telecommunication tower's height is
                         increased or where an existing concealed telecommunications tower is replaced in
                         order to accommodate a major or minor collocation, the existing or replacement
                         concealed telecommunications tower shall comply with the setback requirements in
                         subsection (a) above, to the maximum extent practicable.
                         a.   The maximum height for any concealed wireless telecommunication tower is
                         200 feet, as measured from the adjacent pre-construction grade to the top of the
                         highest appurtenance on the tower.
                         b.   In no instance shall a collocation of an eligible facility or work
iv.   Maximum Height     associated with a substantial modification result in a concealed
                         telecommunication tower with a height that exceeds 200 feet above the adjacent
                         pre- construction grade.
                         c.   The maximum height for a minor telecommunications tower is less than 30
                         feet from the adjacent pre- construction grade to the top of the highest
                         appurtenance on the tower.
                         a.   Concealed and minor telecommunications towers are encouraged (but not
                         required) to accommodate the collocation of other antennas, whenever technically
                         and economically feasible.
                         b.   Any collocated equipment on a concealed telecommunications tower must
                         maintain the appearance of the facility as a concealed telecommunications tower.
                         c.   Collocations of equipment on a minor telecommunications tower (whether a
v.    Collocation        major or minor collocation) shall not increase the overall height of the tower
                         by more than 10 feet beyond the initially approved height of the minor
                         telecommunications tower. Actions that result in an increase in tower height by
                         more than 10 feet shall require the minor telecommunications tower to undergo
                         review as a major telecommunications tower.
                         d.   In no instance shall a concealed telecommunications tower be replaced with
                         a telecommunications tower that is not concealed in order to accommodate a
                         collocation.
      In Historic        A concealed telecommunications tower located within a historic district shall
vi.   District           obtain a certificate of appropriateness and shall be configured to minimize
                         visibility of the facility, to the maximum extent practicable.
                         a.   All ground-based elements, such as an equipment compound or equipment
                         cabinets, shall be completely screened from off-site views through the use of a
                         fully opaque wooden privacy fence, masonry wall, or two staggered rows of
                         evergreen shrubs located around the perimeter of the ground-based elements.
                         b.   Chain-link fencing is a ground-based element subject to these screening
                         requirements.
                         c.   Screening is not required in cases where ground-based equipment is not
vii.  Screening          visible from off-site areas.
                         d.   Landscaping material shall reach and maintain a minimum height of six feet
                         above grade within four years of planting.
                         e.   Landscaping material is not required in front of access gates, provided the
                         gates are fully opaque or are not visible from off-site areas.
                         f.   These screening requirements may be waived, on a case-by-case basis, when
                         the Planning Director determines that compliance with these screening standards
                         will diminish the concealment objective of the concealed telecommunications
                         tower.
                         a.   A concealed telecommunications tower shall provide at least one off-street
                         parking space, paved with an all- weather surface, and configured to provide for
                         appropriate stormwater drainage.
                         b.   Nothing shall prohibit the use of off-street parking associated with
viii. Off-Street Parking another principal use on site or an on- street parking space from meeting this
                         requirement.
                         c.   The Planning Director may waive this requirement when, in the opinion of
                         the Planning Director, the inclusion of an off-street parking space will
                         interfere with concealment objectives of the wireless telecommunications
                         facility.
ix.   Example Images     The following images depict potential concealed telecommunications tower
                         configurations, and are provided for informational purposes only.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-178.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-180.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-182.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-184.jpg]
Tree configuration                        Steeple configuration                     Clock tower configuration                 Flag pole configuration
 
c. ANTENNA COLLOCATION, MAJOR OR MINOR
Collocations, whether on a building wall or roof, a telecommunications tower, or on another vertical
projection such as a water tank or electrical transmission tower, shall comply with the standards in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, Section
4.3.4.S.3, General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless Telecommunications Facilities, and
the following standards. All collocations shall be classified as either a major collocation or a
minor collocation in accordance with Section
9.4 Definitions, and the following:
                    a.   A major collocation includes placement of antennas, antenna- support
                    structures, and related wireless telecommunications equipment on any of the
                    following:
                    i.   A building's roof;
                    ii.   A building's wall;
                    iii.   A vertical projection such as a water tank, electric transmission tower,
                    or similar vertical projection not constructed for the sole purpose of providing
                    wireless telecommunications services; or
                    iv.   An existing or replacement telecommunications tower where the collocation
                    requires a substantial modification, as defined in these standards and Section
                    160D-931 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
                    b.   A minor collocation includes placement of antennas, antenna- support
      Collections   structures, and related wireless telecommunications equipment on an existing or
i.    Distinguished replacement telecommunications tower, provided no substantial modification, as
                    defined in these standards and Section 160D-931 in the North Carolina General
                    Statutes, is required. A minor collocation may also be referred to as an
                    "eligible facility," as defined in these standards and Section 160D-931 of the
                    North Carolina General Statutes.
                    c.   In addition to the placement of antennas and antenna-support structures,
                    collocations may also include the placement of wireless telecommunications
                    equipment on a telecommunications tower, on a vertical projection, on the ground
                    in close proximity to a telecommunications tower or vertical project, within an
                    equipment compound, within an equipment cabinet, within a building, or on a
                    building's roof.
                    d.   Nothing shall prohibit the replacement of an existing telecommunications
                    tower or activities that increase the overall height of an existing
                    telecommunications tower in order to accommodate a proposed collocation.
                    a.   Collocations on an existing or replacement telecommunications tower that
                    require or result in any of the following shall be considered a substantial
                    modification:
                    i.   Increasing the existing overall height of the telecommunications tower by
                    the greater of:
                    1.   20 feet; or
                    2.   More than ten percent; or
                    ii.   Adding an appurtenance (excluding cabling supports) to the body of an
                    existing telecommunications tower that protrudes horizontally from the edge of
                    the tower by the greater of:
                    1.   More than the width of the telecommunications tower at the height of the
ii.   Substantial   appurtenance; or
      Modification  2.   More than 20 feet from the edge of the tower; or
                    b.   Increasing the square footage of an existing equipment compound by more
                    than 2,500 square feet.
                    c.   Substantial modifications that require an increase in the overall height of
                    an existing telecommunications tower or require a replacement tower that exceeds
                    the height of the existing telecommunications tower by more than 40 feet shall
                    require review as a new telecommunication tower subject to the standards in
                    Section
                    4.3.4.S.4.a, Telecommunications Tower, Major.
                    d.   In no instance shall an existing telecommunications tower be permitted to
                    remain in place for a period of more than 14 days following installation of a
                    replacement telecommunications tower constructed to accommodate a collocation.
iii.  Collocation   In no instance shall a collocation take place on or in a single-family detached,
      Prohibited    duplex, or townhouse structure.
                    A collocation on building, telecommunications tower, or other vertical
iv.   In Historic   projection located within a historic district shall obtain a certificate of
      District      appropriateness and shall be configured to minimize visibility of the facility,
                    to the maximum extent practicable.
                    Antennas, antenna-support structures, or other wireless telecommunications
v.    Maximum       equipment, associated with a major collocation on a building wall or roof shall
      Height        not project more than ten feet above the highest point of the building's roof or
                    parapet wall.
                    a.   Antennas, antenna-support structures, or other wireless telecommunications
                    equipment, associated with a collocation shall be mechanically fastened to the
                    building, roof, vertical projection, or telecommunications tower in a manner
      Method of     that minimizes the potential for structural failure or endangerment of the
vi.   Attachment    public from falling wireless telecommunications equipment.
                    b.   The Planning Director may, at the Planning Director's sole discretion,
                    require an applicant for a collocation to furnish evidence from a professional
                    engineer licensed in the State of North Carolina that the proposed collocation
                    meets the applicable State and local building and fire code requirements.
      Appearance    When a collocation is proposed on a concealed telecommunications tower, the
vii.  when          collocation shall be configured in the manner necessary to ensure the tower's
      Concealed     concealment is not compromised or negatively impacted.
                    a.   In cases where an existing telecommunication tower's height is increased or
                    where an existing telecommunications tower is replaced in order to accommodate a
                    collocation, the existing or replacement tower shall be set back at least one
viii. Setbacks      foot from the front, side, and rear lot lines for each foot of overall wireless
                    telecommunications facility height.
                    b.   Accessory structures, including equipment cabinets, guy wire anchors, and
                    other ground-based equipment shall conform with the applicable dimensional
                    requirements for the zoning district where located.
                    a.   All ground-based elements, such as an equipment compound or equipment
                    cabinets, shall be completely screened from off-site views through the use of a
                    fully opaque wooden privacy fence, masonry wall, or two staggered rows of
                    evergreen shrubs located around the perimeter of the ground-based elements.
                    b.   Chain-link fencing is a ground-based element subject to these screening
                    requirements.
                    c.   Screening is not required in cases where ground-based equipment is not
ix.   Screening     visible from off-site areas.
                    d.   Landscaping material shall reach and maintain a minimum height of six feet
                    above grade within four years of planting.
                    e.   Landscaping material is not required in front of access gates, provided the
                    gates are fully opaque or are not visible from off-site areas.
                    f.   Roof- or building wall-mounted wireless telecommunications equipment
                    (excluding antennas and antenna-support structures) shall be screened from view
                    or shall be camouflaged in order to minimize its appearance from on-site and
                    off-site areas.
x.    Example       The following images depict potential collocation configurations, and are
      Images        provided for informational purposes only.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-186.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-188.jpg]
Typical collocation on a building         Concealed collocation on a building
                                          (red circle added for clarity)
 
d. SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY
Small wireless facilities may be located within a public right-of-way, other right-of-way, or on an
individual lot only in accordance with the standards in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, Section
4.3.4.S.3, General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless Telecommunications Facilities, and
the following standards:
                   An applicant may file a single consolidated application for up to 25 separate
i.    Consolidated small wireless facilities at one time, but the Town may choose to issue separate
      Application  decisions on one or more of the facilities included within a consolidated
                   application.
                   Applications for establishment of a small wireless facility shall be processed
ii.   Time Frame   and decided within 45 days from the date the application is determined to be
      for Review   complete. Nothing shall prohibit the Town and the applicant from mutually
                   agreeing to a longer review period.
                   Construction of a small wireless facility shall commence within six months of
iii.  Timing for   its approval and the small wireless facility shall be activated for use within
      Operation    one year from the permit issuance date, unless delayed by a lack of commercial
                   power at the site.
      In Historic  A small wireless facility located within a historic district shall obtain a
iv.   District     certificate of appropriateness and shall be configured to minimize visibility of
                   the facility, to the maximum extent practicable.
                   a.   In no instance shall a small wireless facility exceed the following maximum
                   size limitations:
                   i.   Each antenna, and any exposed elements, shall be capable of fitting within
                   an enclosure of six cubic feet, or less.
                   ii.   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility
      Maximum      shall maintain a maximum cumulative volume of 28 cubic feet, or less. The
v.    Equipment    following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
      Size         equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications
                   demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off
                   switches, vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services, or
                   the support structure.
                   b.   A small wireless facility that exceeds these maximum size limitations shall
                   be reviewed in accordance with the standards for a collocation.
                   a.   No new structure intended to support a small wireless facility shall be
                   taller than 50 feet above the adjacent pre-construction grade.
                   b.   An existing structure (such as a utility pole, light standard, sign, etc.)
                   may be replaced in order to accommodate a small wireless facility, but the
                   replacement structure shall not exceed the height of the original structure
                   being replaced.
      Maximum      c.   In no instance shall the antennas or equipment associated with a small
vi.   Height       wireless facility project more than ten feet above the height of the structure
                   the small wireless facility is mounted on.
                   d.   In cases where a new structure installed to serve a small wireless facility
                   exceeds 50 feet in height, the structure shall be reviewed and decided in
                   accordance with the standards for a telecommunications tower.
                   e.   In cases where a replacement structure intended to serve a small wireless
                   exceeds the height of the original structure, the replacement structure shall be
                   reviewed and decided in accordance with the standards for a collocation.
                   a.   A small wireless facility, including the support structure and all other
                   equipment, shall not obstruct the safe passage of vehicles, pedestrians, or
                   bicycles.
vii.  Placement    b.   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support structure in
                   the right-of-way, the Town may impose separation requirements between it and any
                   existing wireless support structure or other facilities in or within ten feet of
                   the right-of-way, to ensure safe operation and maintenance of all features
                   within the public right-of-way.
                   a.   Antennas, antenna-support structures, or other wireless telecommunications
                   equipment, associated with a small wireless facility shall be mechanically
                   fastened to the supporting structure in a manner that minimizes the potential
                   for structural failure or endangerment of the public from falling wireless
viii. Method of    telecommunications equipment.
      Attachment   b.   The Planning Director may, at the Planning Director's sole discretion,
                   require an applicant for a small wireless facility to furnish evidence from a
                   professional engineer licensed in the State of North Carolina that the proposed
                   wireless telecommunications facility meets the applicable State and local
                   building and fire code requirements.
                   a.   The portion of a small wireless facility attached to the support structure
                   shall match the color of the support structure, to the maximum extent
                   practicable.
                   b.   In no instance shall a small wireless facility be placed on a decorative
                   sign, light standard, or other feature that was required to be decorative as a
ix.   Appearance   condition of approval.
                   c.   In cases where an applicant proposes inclusion of a small wireless facility
                   on a decorative support structure, sign, or other existing structure not
                   constructed solely for the purposes of providing wireless telecommunications
                   services, the Town shall require the small wireless facility, including cables
                   and wiring, to be configured or concealed to ensure compatibility with the
                   structure.
                   a.   All ground-based equipment shall be completely screened from off- site
                   views through the use of a fully opaque wooden privacy fence, masonry wall, or
                   two staggered rows of evergreen shrubs located around the perimeter of the
                   ground-based equipment.
                   b.   Chain-link fencing is a ground-based element subject to these screening
                   requirements.
x.    Screening    c.   Screening is not required in cases where ground-based equipment is not
                   visible from off-site areas.
                   d.   The Planning Director may waive or modify the screening requirements for
                   small wireless facilities located within the public right-of-way when, in the
                   opinion of the Planning Director, landscaping material would obstruct sight
                   lines, pose challenges to maintenance, or call undue attention to the small
                   wireless facility from passersby.
      Electrical   In cases where a small wireless facility is proposed in areas where electrical
xi.   Service      service is underground, all electrical service to the small wireless facility
                   shall also be underground.
xii.  Right-of-    The applicant shall restore the right-of-way to pre-construction conditions
      Way Restored following installation or maintenance of a small wireless facility.
xiii. Example      The following images depict potential small wireless configurations, and are
      Images       provided for informational purposes only.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-190.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-192.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-194.jpg]
Typical placement on an electrical        Typical placement on a street light       Typical placement on a street sign
utility pole
 
 
e. TEMPORARY WIRELESS FACILITY
Temporary wireless facilities may be established only in accordance with the standards in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, Section
4.3.4.S.3, General Standards Applicable to All Types of Wireless Telecommunications Facilities,
and the following standards:
                   A temporary wireless facility may be allowed on a lot for the following maximum
                   periods of time per calendar year:
                   a.   30 days after a disaster or emergency, with the ability to renew for good
                   cause shown;
i.   Maximum       b.   14 days to evaluate the technical feasibility of a site for a permanent
     Duration      wireless telecommunications facility;
                   c.   14 days to facilitate repair, replacement, or reconstruction of an
                   existing telecommunications facility; or
                   d.   For the duration of a special event where additional wireless
                   telecommunications services are necessary.
ii.  Configuration A temporary wireless facility shall be self-contained (with the exception of a
                   power source) and portable.
                   a.   Antennas, antenna-support structures, or other wireless telecommunications
                   equipment associated with a temporary wireless facility shall be mechanically
                   fastened to the supporting structure in a manner that minimizes the potential
                   for structural failure or endangerment of the public from falling wireless
iii. Method of     telecommunications equipment.
     Attachment    b.   The Planning Director may, at the Planning Director's sole discretion,
                   require an applicant for a temporary wireless facility to furnish evidence from
                   a professional engineer licensed in the State of North Carolina that the
                   facility meets the applicable State and local building and fire code
                   requirements.
                   A temporary wireless facility shall be located outside of required setbacks,
iv.  Placement     off-street parking areas, landscaping areas, areas necessary for on-site
                   circulation, and conservation areas like riparian buffers or wetlands.
v.   Example       The following images depict temporary wireless facilities, and are provided for
     Images        informational purposes only.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ 2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-196.jpg]                     IMAGES/0-0-0-198.jpg]
Temporary facility on a trailer           Temporary facility in a vehicle
 
      5.   Nonconforming Wireless Telecommunications Facilities.
         a.   Lawfully established wireless telecommunications facilities in
operation prior to January 1, 2020 that do not comply with these standards may
remain and operate as nonconforming uses.
         b.   In the event of conflict between these standards and the
standards for nonconforming situations in
Article 7 of this Ordinance, the standards in this section shall control with
respect to wireless telecommunications facilities.
         c.   Ordinary and routine maintenance may be performed on a
nonconforming wireless telecommunications facility.
         d.   Minor collocation of antennas, antenna-support structures, and
related wireless telecommunications equipment is allowed in accordance with the
requirements in Section
4.3.4.S.4., Collocation, provided that the overall height of the existing
nonconforming wireless telecommunications facility remains unchanged or is
reduced.
         e.   In no instance shall a collocation resulting in an increased
overall height or a requiring substantial modification, as defined in this
section and Section 160D-931 of the North Carolina General Statutes, be
permitted on a nonconforming wireless telecommunications facility.
         f.   In the event a nonconforming telecommunications tower is removed,
if shall not be replaced with another nonconforming wireless telecommunications
tower.
      6.   Cessation, Abandonment, and Removal of Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities.
         a.   Cessation.
            i.   A wireless telecommunication facility shall be considered to
have ceased operation if:
               1.   The Town receives written notice from a wireless services
provider that it intends to cease operations at a particular wireless
telecommunication facility; or
               2.   A wireless telecommunications facility ceases to transmit a
wireless telecommunications signal for a period of 30 consecutive days or
longer; or
               3.   A wireless telecommunications facility ceases to be served
by electricity for a period of 30 consecutive days or longer and no generator
is in operation.
            ii.   Nothing shall limit the Town from compelling an owner or
operator of a wireless telecommunications facility to demonstrate that a
wireless telecommunications facility is in operation. For the purposes of this
section, "in operation" shall mean sending and/or receiving wireless
telecommunications signals on a regular and on-going basis.
            iii.   Upon receipt of a written notice from a wireless services
provider or upon determination that a wireless telecommunication facility has
ceased operation, the Town shall forward written documentation of the cessation
to the wireless services provider, or the owner of the land, if different.
         b.   Abandonment.
            i.   The wireless telecommunications facility shall be deemed
abandoned if wireless telecommunications signals do not resume for a period of
180 consecutive days or longer from the date the written documentation of
cessation is filed.
            ii.   Upon making a determination that a wireless
telecommunications facility has been abandoned, the Town shall forward written
documentation of the abandonment to the wireless services provider, or the
owner of the land, if different.
         c.   Removal.
            i.   The Town may require the wireless services provider or the
owner of the land, if different, to remove an abandoned wireless
telecommunications facility within 30 days of the date it is deemed abandoned.
            ii.   Should the wireless services provider, or the owner of the
land, if different, fail to remove the abandoned wireless facility within 30
days of the date that notice of abandonment is filed, the Town may cause the
wireless telecommunications facility to be removed and may recover the actual
cost of such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the wireless services
provider, or the owner of the land, if different.
   T.   Utilities.
      1.   All uses in the utility use category shall comply with the following
standards:
         a.   Where possible, utilities should be located on lots interior to a
development rather than on lots abutting streets.
         b.   Except when a utility crosses a street, it shall be setback at
least 25 from all lot lines unless the zoning district requirements specify a
deeper setback.
         c.   Major utilities may only be located on lots that meet the
dimensional requirements for the zoning district where located. Minor utilities
may be on lots, leaseholds, or easements that do not meet the minimum
dimensional standards for lots in the district where located.
         d.   The design of buildings, structures, and facilities located in
residential neighborhoods shall conform as closely as possible to the character
of development in the area to ensure compatibility. Utility placement and
screening may also be used as a means of ensuring compatibility.
         e.   Portions of properties not used for facilities, off-street
parking, or related services shall be maintained with natural ground cover.
         f.   Service and storage yards shall not be permitted within utility
facilities located in residential or OI districts.
      2.   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers shall also
comply with the following additional standards:
         a.   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers may only be
located on a lot of one acre in area when located in a residential or OI
district.
         b.   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers shall
include non-climbable fences or comparable safety devises to limit
accessibility by the general public.
         c.   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers shall
include a durable masonry wall, fence, hedge, or other natural planting of
comparable opacity shall be provided along the exterior lot lines abutting a
lot in a residential or OI district.
         d.   Walls, fences, or hedges required in this section shall be
between five and seven feet in height measured from the ground along the lot
line.
         e.   Plantings shall maintain an initial height of at least three feet
at time of planting and shall achieve an average height of six feet within two
years of the time of planting.
      3.   Communications or relay towers associated with a utility use type
shall comply with the following additional standards:
         a.   Communications or relay towers associated with a utility use type
may only be located on a lot of one acre in area when located in a residential
or OI district.
         b.   The minimum distance from the base of any tower to the nearest
property line shall be equal to the height of the tower.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.3.5.   Commercial Uses
   A.   Adult Business.
      1.   No sexually oriented business or adult cabaret shall locate within
2,000 feet of any other sexually oriented business or adult cabaret, as
measured in a straight line from property line to property line.
      2.   No sexually oriented business or adult cabaret shall be located
within 1,000 feet of a church, public or private elementary or secondary
school, child day care or nursery school, public park, residence or any
establishment with an on-premise ABC license. The 1,000-foot distance shall be
measured on a straight line from property line to property line.
      3.   There shall not be more than one sexually oriented business or adult
cabaret on the same property or in the same building, structure or portion
thereof.
      4.   No other principal or accessory use may occupy the same building,
structure, property or portion thereof with any sexually oriented business or
adult cabaret.
      5.   Except for the signs permitted in Section
5.11, Signage, no other advertisements, displays or signs or other promotional
material shall be visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks, walkways or
vehicular use area.
      6.   Wall sign area limitations for a sexually oriented business or an
adult cabaret shall be limited to the following:
         a.   Sign area: one-fourth of a square foot per linear foot of
building wall.
         b.   Only one wall sign is permitted.
         c.   The wall sign shall face a public street right-of-way.
   B.   Animal Day Care/Grooming. Animal day care or animal grooming uses shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Overnight boarding of animals shall not be permitted.
      2.   Outside play areas for animal day care uses shall not be located
within 100 feet of any residentially zoned property or property being used as
residential.
      3.   No more than one animal day care or animal grooming and day care in
combination operating as one business shall be allowed within a multi-tenant
building.
      4.   Animal day care uses located within multi-tenant structures shall be
soundproofed.
      5.   Free standing animal day care uses located within 100 feet of
property zoned residential or being used as residential shall be soundproofed.
      6.   Animal day care or grooming located within a downtown district shall
be conducted within a completely enclosed building. No outside activity shall
be permitted.
   C.   Animal Shelter.
      1.   All activities associated with the use shall take place within
enclosed and soundproofed structures, or the use shall comply with the
following separation requirements:
         a.   All activities shall be at least 500 linear feet from a lot in a
residential or OI zoning district; and
         b.   All activities shall be at least 300 linear feet from land zoned
NC.
      2.   Outdoor areas used to house or exercise animals shall be protected
from the weather and enclosed by a fence at least six feet in height.
   D.   Art Gallery.
      1.   Work displayed within an art gallery shall be available for retail
sale.
      2.   Display areas within art galleries may also be used as event or
gathering spaces when they are clearly accessory to the principal use of
display of art for retail sale.
   E.   Artisan Studio.
      1.   Goods produced on site shall also be available for retail sale on
site.
      2.   At least 20 percent of the total floor area shall be dedicated for
the display of items for retail sale.
      3.   Total manufacturing, assembly, or production space shall not exceed
5,000 square feet.
      4.   Measures shall be taken to minimize any potential noise, vibration,
smell, or similar impacts onto neighboring buildings, lots, or uses.
   F.   Automotive Repair and Servicing (without painting/bodywork). When
proposed in the NC, GC, or HC districts, automobile repair and servicing uses
shall comply with the following:
      1.   If the property abuts a lot in a residential zoning district, the
following requirements shall be met:
         a.   A Type A perimeter buffer shall be provided along any lot line
abutting a residential zoning district.
         b.   Side yards abutting a lot in a residential zoning shall be at
least ten feet in width.
         c.   Side yards abutting a lot in a residential zoning shall be at
least 20 feet in width.
      2.   New construction shall conform to the mixed-use design standards in
Section 5.3.2.
   G.   Automotive Sales or Rentals. Uses primarily involving the sales or
rental of automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, or travel trailers, shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Vehicle display areas shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt, or
other permanent surfacing material other than crushed stone;
      2.   No vehicles or other similar items shall be displayed on the top of
a building;
      3.   All lights and lighting shall be designed and arranged so no source
of light is directly visible from any adjacent property; and
      4.   Repair and service functions are permitted as an accessory use
provided all repair-related activities take place within an enclosed building.
      5.   No more than 50 percent of the vehicles for sale may be between the
building and any public road.
   H.   Automotive Painting/Body Shop. Automobile painting/body shop uses shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   The use shall be located at least 250 feet from any residential
district, school (except vocational schools), or child day care center.
      2.   Vehicles shall not be parked or stored as a source of parts.
      3.   Repair and storage of all vehicles shall occur within an enclosed
building. Temporary outdoor vehicle storage may be allowed in an outdoor
storage area that is no larger than 25 percent of the buildable area of the
lot, located behind or to the side of the principal structure, and fully
screened by an opaque fence or wall of at least six feet in height.
      4.   New construction shall conform to the mixed-use design standards in
Section
5.3.2.
   I.   Automotive Wrecker Yard. Automotive wrecker service uses shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Motor Vehicles.
         a.   A maximum of no more than 50 vehicles at any one time shall be
stored on the property.
         b.   All towed vehicles must be stored in an approved vehicle towing
and storage area.
      2.   Vehicle Storage Area.
         a.   Size. The minimum size of the fenced storage area shall be 5,000
square feet.
         b.   Security.
            i.   A chain link fence, a minimum of six feet in height, shall be
provided around all accessible sides of the storage area.
            ii.   All entrances to and from the storage area shall be secured
and locked whenever an employee is not present on the property.
         c.   Screening. Storage of motor vehicles shall comply with the
applicable standards in Section
5.10, Screening.
         d.   Surface. The storage area shall be maintained with an all-weather
surface by paving, gravel or as required in the district in which it is located
to minimize dust emissions and the buildup of dirt, mud, and other debris.
         e.   Lighting. All lighting shall be shielded so as not to cast direct
light upon any adjacent residential lot.
         f.   Location. No storage area shall be permitted within 100 feet of
any residentially-zoned property or within any required front yard.
      3.   Storage Buildings. All buildings used to protect stored motor
vehicles shall be located on the same lot.
      4.   Measures shall be taken to minimize any potential noise, vibration,
smell, or similar impacts onto neighboring buildings, lots, or uses.
   J.   Bar, Cocktail Lounge, or Private Club. A bar, cocktail lounge, or
private club shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Such uses shall be separated from a religious institution or a
school by at least 200 feet.
      2.   The minimum separation requirement above is reduced to 100 feet in
the HC district and there is no separation requirement in a downtown district.
      3.   The use shall not orient the primary entrance toward an abutting lot
in a residential district.
      4.   The use shall have a six-foot high opaque fence or masonry wall
along all lot lines abutting a residential district.
      5.   Outdoor seating (including, but not limited to, seating for dining
or listening to live or recorded acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of
the building) shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   The outdoor seating area shall be located no closer than 100 feet
from any single-family residential zoning district.
         b.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
   K.   Bed and Breakfast. A bed and breakfast shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   The use shall be owner-occupied or have a manager who resides on the
premises;
      2.   A bed and breakfast use shall be separated from a boarding/rooming
house or another bed and breakfast use by at least 400 linear feet;
      3.   The use shall be limited to a maximum of seven sleeping rooms;
      4.   Rooms used for sleeping shall be part of the primary structure and
shall not have been specifically constructed or remodeled for rental purposes;
      5.   The use shall maintain its appearance as a single-family home if
proposed in a structure constructed for single-family purposes;
      6.   The use shall have only one kitchen;
      7.   Limit meals served on the premises to overnight guests only;
      8.   Facilities for the preparation and distribution of food and proper
garbage disposal shall be approved by the Wake County Health Department; and
      9.   Signage shall be limited to ground-mounted or wall signage with a
maximum sign face area of eight square feet with a maximum height of six feet.
   L.   Bottle Shop (With On-Premise Consumption). A bottle shop use shall
comply with the standards in Section
4.3.5.J, Bar, Cocktail Lounge, or Private Club.
   M.   Business Incubator.
      1.   A business incubator may be provided as a principal use in its own
building, as a tenant in a multi-tenant building, or as an accessory use to an
existing office, personal service, or industrial use.
      2.   Table 4.3.5.M: Business Incubator Composition, sets out the types of
individual uses permitted within a business incubator, based on the zoning
district where proposed:
 
TABLE 4.3.5.M: BUSINESS INCUBATOR COMPOSITION
Zoning District Maximum Number of Units in a Single Building
NC, OI          3
GC, HC          12
LI, IC          No limit
DTC, DTP        No limit
 
      3.   When proposed as an accessory use to an existing business or
development, the floor area devoted to the business incubator shall not exceed
25 percent of the building's gross floor area.
      4.   Business incubators shall meet the off-street parking requirement
for this use type in Table 5.8.4.H: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Table, not the individual types of uses within the business incubator.
      5.   Floor area within a building serving as a business incubator may be
used for storage, but no outdoor activity or storage is permitted.
   N.   Campground. Campgrounds shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Campgrounds shall not include permanent residences, except as
necessary for caretakers;
      2.   Individual campsites shall maintain a minimum size of 1,200 square
feet in area and at least 25 feet in width;
      3.   Campgrounds shall provide a common recreational area consisting of
100 square feet per campsite;
      4.   Campgrounds shall provide sufficient groundcover to prevent erosion;
and
      5.   Individual campsites shall be set back at least 100 feet from the
front lot line and at least 50 feet from the side and rear lot lines.
   O.   Car Wash or Auto Detailing. Car wash or auto detailing uses proposed in
the NC district shall comply with the following:
      1.   No outdoor display or storage of merchandise, materials, or rubbish
shall be permitted.
      2.   No flags, banners, pennants, or other devices that flutter or
revolve and that are designed and used solely to attract attention shall be
permitted.
      3.   All floodlights shall be turned off at the close of business or at
11:00 p.m., whichever is earlier.
      4.   No exterior lights shall be so arranged as to direct or reflect
light into the windows of any residence.
      5.   If the property abuts a lot in a residential zoning district, the
following requirements shall be met:
         a.   A Type D perimeter buffer shall be provided along any lot line
abutting a residential zoning district.
   P.   Coffee Shop. Coffee shops shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   To assure provision of adequate parking, the maximum amount of
seating and/or square footage of the public floor area for a coffee shop in a
multi-tenant building shall be specified at the time of site plan approval.
      2.   A coffee shop shall have a six-foot high opaque fence or masonry
wall along all lot lines abutting a residential district.
      3.   Coffee shops with outdoor seating (including, but not limited to,
seating for dining or listening to live or recorded acoustic or amplified
entertainment outside of the building) shall comply with the following
standards:
         a.   The outdoor seating area shall be located no closer than 100 feet
from any single-family residential zoning district.
         b.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
   Q.   Convenience Store (With Gasoline Sales). Convenience stores with fuel
sales shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Location of Fuel Pump Islands.
         a.   Pump islands may not be located between a building and any
adjacent street rights-of-way.
         b.   Pump islands shall be at least 10 feet from any lot line, and 12
feet from any principal building. Canopies over the pump islands may be located
within 10 feet of a lot line.
      2.   Location of Fuel Tanks. Gasoline and fuel storage tanks shall be
located a minimum of 20 feet from any lot line or building.
   R.   Co-Working Space.
      1.   Use types and activities associated with a co-working space shall be
limited to the range of activities typically associated with office uses.
      2.   Food or beverages produced or sold within the use shall be limited
to patrons of co-working space not the general public.
      3.   Delivery of personal services within the co-working space (manicure,
massage, education, exercise classes, child care, etc.) shall be limited to
patrons of the co- working space.
      4.   Facilities for pets shall be indoors or fully screened from adjacent
streets and other uses.
   S.   Event Venue. Event venues shall be operated in accordance with the
following standards:
      1.   Setbacks. Outdoor activity areas shall be set back from lot lines
shared with a residential use by an amount at least twice the minimum rear
setback for the district where the use is located.
      2.   Maximum Number of Guests. The maximum number of guests shall be in
accordance with the maximum occupancy of the principal structure as determined
by the fire marshal or fire chief.
      3.   Hours of Operation. Outdoor activities shall not take place between
the hours of midnight and 7:00 AM.
      4.   Lighting. Exterior lighting shall not project into adjoining
residential lots. Use of stadium-style or other pole-mounted lighting is
prohibited. Lighting of accessible paths may be provided, if necessary.
      5.   Noise. The event venue must comply with noise restrictions in the
Town Code of Ordinances.
      6.   Parking.
         a.   In cases where off-site parking is employed, the event venue
shall maintain an agreement with the owner of land where vehicles are parked.
         b.   The venue shall ensure guests may access the venue safely from
off-site parking areas.
         c.   In no instance shall vehicles be parked along streets in ways
that block driveways, sight triangles, or emergency access.
      7.   Trash and Debris. The event venue shall provide sufficient on-site
trash receptacles, and shall ensure that windblown trash or other debris does
not accumulate anywhere on the site.
      8.   Outdoor Activity. Event venue uses shall demarcate the boundaries of
the event venue site for guests and shall include fences, walls, or other
techniques such as landscaping to ensure guests to do not inadvertently
trespass on adjacent lots.
      9.   Emergency Access. Event venues shall ensure adequate ingress and
egress from all buildings and structures to accommodate emergencies.
   T.   Financial Services Establishment.
      1.   Drive-throughs, if provided, shall be located to the side or rear of
the building to the maximum extent practicable.
      2.   New construction of drive-through financial services establishment
shall conform to the mixed-use design standards in Section
5.3.2.
   U.   Flea Market. Flea markets shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Hours of Operation.
         a.   Flea markets shall be open at least three days within any 90-day
period.
         b.   Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM.
      2.   Site Features.
         a.   Off street parking shall be provided with a minimum of three
spaces per stand or rented space.
         b.   Sanitary facilities shall be provided for both men and women.
         c.   Provisions shall be made for garbage or trash removal for each
day the flea market is open to the public.
      3.   Location. All rental spaces and buildings shall maintain a 50-foot
setback from all residential development or residentially-zoned land.
   V.   Funeral-Related Services. Funeral-related services shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   Crematories shall not be located within a residential zoning
district.
      2.   All storage shall take place within enclosed buildings.
      3.   Display of headstones or other memorials shall be fully screened
from any lot line shared with a lot in a residential zoning district.
   W.   Games of Skill. A commercial operation offering games of skill or
operated as a similar use shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Separation.
         a.   No use subject to these standards shall locate within one half-
mile (2,460 linear feet) feet of the any other use subject to these standards.
         b.   No use subject to these standards shall locate within 1,000 feet
of any of the following use types:
            i.   Elementary, middle, or high school;
            ii.   Religious institution;
            iii.   Child day care center;
            iv.   Parks;
            v.   Adult business;
            vi.   ABC store;
            vii.   Bar, cocktail lounge, or private club;
            viii.   Nightclub or dancehall; or
            ix.   Pool hall.
         c.   There shall not be more than one use subject to these standards
on the same property or in the same building, structure, or portion thereof.
      2.   Hours of Operation. Such uses shall only operate during the
following hours:
         a.   Monday through Thursday: 7:00 am to 11:00 pm;
         b.   Friday through Saturday: 7:00 am to 12:00 midnight; and
         c.   Sunday: 1:00 pm to 8:00 pm.
      3.   Sweepstakes Activities Prohibited. Uses subject to these standards
shall not engage in the display or conduct of sweepstakes-related activities at
any time.
      4.   Maximum Size. The maximum number of machines, terminals, or
computers for any operation's business is 20.
      5.   Age-Restricted. No one under the age of 18 can enter the premises.
      6.   Sales of Alcohol Prohibited. No alcoholic beverages shall be served
or consumed on the premises of the operation.
      7.   Clear View Maintained. No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or
other obstructions shall be placed between the entrance to the room where games
are played and the rear wall of the room, so that a clear view of the interior
may be had from the street.
      8.   Manager Present. There must be an adult, 18 years of age or older,
managing the business on the premises at all times during the hours of
operation.
   X.   Golf Course. Golf courses shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   No building shall be nearer to any lot line than 100 feet.
      2.   No green shall be nearer to any lot line than 150 feet.
      3.   Lighting shall be shielded so as to cast no direct light upon any
adjacent lot.
   Y.   Golf Driving Range. Golf driving ranges shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   The depth of a driving range along the driving axis shall be at
least 250 yards measured from the location of the tees and at 125 yards wide.
      2.   Lighting shall be shielded so as to cast no direct light upon any
adjacent lot.
   Z.   Gymnasium/Fitness Center. Outdoor courts, swimming pools, and athletic
fields shall be located at least 50 feet from any lot line abutting a
residential district.
   AA.   Heavy Equipment Sales, Rental, and Repair. Uses primarily involving
the sales, rental, service, or storage of heavy equipment shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   No heavy equipment or building displays shall be located within a
required setback or perimeter buffer.
      2.   No heavy equipment shall be displayed on the top of a building.
      3.   All lights and lighting shall be designed and arranged so no source
of light is directly visible from any residential district or existing
residential use.
   BB.   Kennel, Indoor/Outdoor. All kennels shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All structures shall be designed and maintained in a manner to
prevent the development of unsanitary conditions;
      2.   All activities associated shall take place within enclosed and
soundproofed structures, or the use shall comply with the following separation
requirements:
         a.   All activities shall be at least 200 linear feet from a lot in a
residential or OI zoning district; and
         b.   All activities shall be at least 100 linear feet from land zoned
NC.
      3.   Outdoor areas used to house or exercise animals shall include areas
protected from the weather and be enclosed by a fence at least six feet in
height.
      4.   Any animal suspected of showing symptoms of rabies infection shall
be immediately segregated and reported to Animal Control.
   CC.   Laundry or Cleaning Service. When proposed in the NC district, laundry
and cleaning service uses shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   No more than 2,000 square feet of floor area shall be devoted to the
dry cleaning, laundering, or finishing processes;
      2.   No more than three employees (including a manager) shall be working
in the use at any one time;
      3.   No coal-burning or smoke-producing equipment or process shall be
used;
      4.   Washing machines shall not exceed 50 pounds of capacity; and
      5.   No petroleum-based chemicals in excess of 500 gallons shall be
stored in above-ground tanks.
   DD.   Microbrewery, Microwinery, or Microdistillery. A microbrewery,
microwinery, or microdistillery use shall comply with the standards in Section
4.3.5.J, Bar, Cocktail Lounge, or Private Club.
   EE.   Nightclub or Dance Hall. A nightclub or dance hall shall comply with
the standards in Section
4.3.5.J, Bar, Cocktail Lounge, or Private Club, and the following:
      1.   Such uses shall be separated from land in a residential zoning
district by at least 500 feet.
      2.   The building shall be configured and the use operated such that
sound from amplified music or other performance taking place within the
building is not audible at the lot line after 11:00 PM.
   FF.   Outdoor Commercial Recreation.
      1.   Generally. Outdoor commercial recreation uses shall comply with the
following standards:
         a.   Outdoor recreation uses shall be screened from abutting major
arterial streets with a Type A buffer.
         b.   Grading shall be limited to a maximum of five feet above or below
the grade existing prior to development.
         c.   No associated outdoor features shall be located between the front
facade of the building and the street fronting the lot.
      2.   Drive-In Theatre. A drive-in theatre shall comply with the following
requirements:
         a.   The viewing screen shall be directed away from major
thoroughfares or collector streets.
         b.   Lighting shall be shielded so as to cast no direct light on
adjoining lots.
         c.   An eight-foot high opaque screen shall be required around the
perimeter, except at driveways.
         d.   Audio shall be delivered to each car by individual speakers only.
         e.   The use shall provide stacking spaces at the entrance capable of
accommodating 20 percent of the vehicular capacity of the use.
      3.   Miniature Golf. In addition to the general standards for outdoor
commercial recreation uses in subsection (a) above, miniature golf uses shall
also comply with the following:
         a.   No green shall be allowed within a street setback or closer than
100 feet to any lot line.
         b.   Lighting shall be shielded so as to cast no direct light upon any
adjacent lot.
   GG.   Outdoor Storage.
      1.   General Standards. The following standards shall apply to all
outdoor storage areas.
         a.   The extent of the outdoor storage area shall be clearly
delineated on an application for establishment of the use.
         b.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the minimum setback
standards applicable in the zoning district where the outdoor storage area is
located.
         c   Outdoor storage areas are prohibited between the development's
principal structure(s) and a thoroughfare (major and minor) or collector
street.
         d.   No outdoor storage area shall be located within a perimeter
buffer required in accordance with Section
5.6.10, Perimeter Buffers.
         e.   Flammable liquids or gas containers in excess of 1,000 gallons
shall be stored underground.
         f.   No materials shall be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
         g.   No materials shall be stored on any potable or non-potable water
easement, stormwater easement, or sanitary sewer easement.
      2.   Screening Requirements. Screening of outdoor storage shall be in
accordance with the applicable standards in Section
5.10, Screening.
   HH.   Parking Lot. A commercial parking lot that is the principal use shall
comply with the parking lot configuration requirements in Section
5.8, Parking and Loading, and the following standards:
      1.   Parking shall be the principal use of the parking lot. Parking
spaces may be rented for parking, or otherwise used in accordance with an
approved temporary use permit or other permit, but no other business of any
kind shall be conducted on the lot, including repair service, washing, display,
or storage of vehicles or other goods.
      2.   Commercial parking lots shall not be located contiguous to a single-
family residential zoning district.
      3.   Commercial parking lots that are the principal use of the lot shall
have no more than 100 feet of street frontage occupied by parking or vehicular
access area. The balance of the frontage shall be screened or occupied by
vegetation.
   II.   Parking Structure. Parking structures, whether serving as a principal
or accessory use in the DTC, DTP, and OI districts, shall be configured in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Dimensional Requirements. Parking structures shall comply with the
dimensional standards applicable to the zoning district where located.
      2.   Ground Floor Configuration. The ground floor of a parking structure
abutting a sidewalk shall be configured as building floor area capable of
accommodating a nonresidential use or shall be configured with a minimum first
floor ceiling height of 20 feet above grade to ease conversion of the ground
floor to habitable space in the future.
      3.   Architecture.
         a.   Parking structures visible from street frontages shall be
designed to be compatible with the architectural character and quality of
adjacent buildings and shall not adversely impact abutting sidewalks.
         b.   Parking structure elevations shall use color, massing, or
architectural features to reduce the appearance of bulk.
         c.   Parking structure facades facing residential lots shall:
            i.   Be enclosed to prevent light spillover from headlights,
adverse noise, or pollutants; and
            ii.   Incorporate architectural design elements, including surface
treatments, offset planes, structural articulation, and landscaping to provide
visual interest and compatibility with adjacent residential uses.
      4.   Drainage. Parking structures shall be designed and constructed so
that surface water will not drain over sidewalks or adjacent lots; and
      5.   Lighting.
         a.   Parking and pedestrian areas shall have adequate illumination for
security and safety with a minimum of one foot candle at every point within the
parking structure.
         b.   Lighting fixtures shall be designed and located to illuminate
only the interior of the parking structure and not project glare into adjoining
land.
   JJ.   Pawn Shops. Pawn shops shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Separation.
         a.   No use subject to these standards shall locate within 300 feet of
any of the following use types:
            i.   Pawn shop;
            ii.   Vape, tobacco, & CBD shop;
            iii.   Elementary, middle, or high school;
            iv.   Religious institution;
            v.   Child day care center;
            vi.   Parks;
            vii.   Adult business;
            viii.   Nightclub or dancehall; or
            ix.   Pool hall.
         b.   There shall not be more than one use subject to these standards
on the same property or in the some building, structure, or portion thereof.
      2.   Building appearance. Buildings containing such uses shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   No illuminated signs shall be within 36 inches of the surface of
a window;
         b.   Metal gates or similar elements are not permitted in front of or
behind windows; and
         c.   Exterior building modifications, including paint colors, shall be
approved by the Planning Director and shall be in keeping with the context of
the surrounding buildings.
   KK.   Pharmacy. A pharmacy may be permitted as an accessory to a health care
use or medical office in the OI district, provided:
      1.   The pharmacy is on the ground floor and does not occupy more than 50
percent of the ground floor square footage; and
      2.   The pharmacy be limited to sales of drugs, prescription medicines,
medicinal supplies and appliances, and pharmaceutical products.
   LL.   Recreational Vehicle Park. Recreational vehicle and travel trailer
parks shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Minimum Site Area. The park shall have a minimum area of two acres
of well-drained land. All areas of the premises shall be kept clean and free
from weeds and undergrowth.
      2.   Minimum Campsite Area. The minimum campsite area occupied by any
travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall be 1,500 square feet with a
minimum width of 30 feet.
      3.   Minimum Spacing. A clearance of at least 20 feet shall be maintained
between each travel trailer, recreational vehicle, and any building within the
park.
      4.   Opaque Screen. A continuous opaque screen shall be provided along
all park boundaries, except at entrances.
      5.   Interior Drives.
         a.   All campsites shall abut a paved driveway with a continuous width
of 25 feet.
         b.   All interior drives shall have unobstructed access to a public
street.
      6.   Fire Protection Standards. The park shall meet the standards for
adequate fire protection as established by the latest edition of the National
Fire Protection Association Bulletin No. 501-A.
      7.   Limitation of Stay. No travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall
remain within a park for more than 30 days during any six-month period.
      8.   Sanitary Facilities. Each park shall provide the following bathroom
facilities for every eight campsites or fraction thereof:
         a.   Male bathrooms to include one commode, one urinal, one lavatory
and one shower;
         b.   Female bathrooms to include two commodes, one lavatory and one
shower; and
         c.   All bathrooms shall provide an adequate supply of hot and cold
running water.
      9.   Refuse Facilities.
         a.   All garbage and refuse shall be stored in a suitable water-tight
and fly-tight standard garbage receptacle and shall be kept covered with tight-
fitting covers.
         b.   At least one such receptacle shall be provided and conveniently
located for every campsite, except where a dumpster or dumpsters are
conveniently located and used in the same manner as separate receptacles.
         c.   It shall be the duty of the park operator to ensure that all
garbage and refuse is disposed of regularly and in a manner approved by the
Wake County Health Director.
         d.   No materials that attract or that afford harborage for insects or
rodents may be stored or allowed to remain on the premises.
   MM.   Repair Shop.
      1.   All repair uses shall limit repair activities to those occurring
indoors.
      2.   Gun repair shops may include testing facility for firearms,
provided:
         a.   The facilities are constructed in accordance with all applicable
laws and regulations;
         b.   The facilities include acoustical apparatus and/or materials that
prevent any noise or disturbance to the owners and/or occupants of the
adjoining properties; and
         c.   The facilities are not used as a shooting range for target
practice or the testing of marksmanship skills.
   NN.   Restaurants. All restaurant use types shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   A restaurant shall have a six-foot high opaque fence or masonry wall
along all lot lines abutting a residential district.
      2.   New construction of drive-through restaurants shall conform to the
mixed- use design standards in Section
5.3.2.
      3.   Restaurants having outdoor seating (including, but not limited to,
seating for dining or listening to live or recorded acoustic or amplified
entertainment outside of the building) shall comply with the following
standards:
         a.   The outdoor seating area shall be located no closer than 100 feet
from any single-family residential zoning district.
         b.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
   OO.   Retail, Bulky Item. The outdoor display of bulky goods shall comply
with the following standards:
      1.   Portable storage containers and dumpsters that are utilized for the
purpose of display and any item that exceeds 10 feet in height shall not be
placed within required setbacks, parking, or landscape areas.
      2.   Other bulky items that are less than or equal to 10 feet in height
must be located at least 10 feet from any public street and shall not be placed
within required parking or landscape areas.
   PP.   Retail, Large Format. Large format retail uses shall comply with the
standards in Section
5.3.1.G, Standards for Large Format Retail Uses.
   QQ.   Self Service Storage, External or Internal Access.
      1.   Generally. Self-service storage facilities shall comply with the
following standards:
         a.   The use shall be located on a lot or site of at least five acres
in area;
         b.   No more than 50 percent of the total site may be occupied by
buildings;
         c.   External-access only storage buildings shall not exceed 20 feet
or one story in height;
         d.   No activity other than storage shall take place within a storage
unit; and
         e.   Storage of hazardous, toxic, or explosive substances shall be
prohibited.
      2.   Additional Standards for Internal-only Access Self-storage Uses.
         a.   No indoor storage material, racks, bins, shelving or other
evidence of the operation shall be visible from the public right-of-way;
         b.   Glass doors and windows shall contain curtains, blinds or other
suitable treatment to screen the interior of the building from view;
         c.   Windows shall not be boarded or paneled over from the outside or
the inside; and
         d.   Outdoor storage shall be prohibited at mini-storage facilities
with internal only access.
   RR.   Shooting Range, Indoor. Indoor shooting ranges shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   All activities shall take place within a building;
      2.   Firing areas shall be configured to ensure metal fragments do not
escape the building's containment areas;
      3.   Exhaust fans and other equipment shall be configured to ensure lead
or other airborne hazardous materials do not escape the building; and
      4.   The use shall be configured such that no noise attributed to
operations inside the building are audible on off-site areas.
   SS.   Specialty Eating Establishment. Specialty eating establishments shall
comply with all applicable requirements in Section
4.3.5.NN, Restaurants.
   TT.   Truck Stop. A truck stop shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Setbacks. All buildings, parking, and service areas associated with
the use shall be setback at least 50 feet from an abutting residential
district.
      2.   Location. Truck stops shall have frontage on or be located within a
one- half mile of an Interstate or US Primary Highway exit.
   UU.   Vape, Tobacco, & CBD Shop. Vape, tobacco & CBD shops shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Separation.
         a.   No use subject to these standards shall locate within 300 feet of
any of the following use types:
            i.   Pawn shop;
            ii.   Vape, tobacco, & CBD shop;
            iii.   Elementary, middle, or high school;
            iv.   Religious institution;
            v.   Child day care center;
            vi.   Parks;
            vii.   Adult business;
            viii.   Nightclub or dancehall; or
            ix.   Pool hall.
         b.   There shall not be more than one use subject to these standards
on the same property or in the same building. structure, or portion thereof.
      2.   Building Appearance. Buildings contain in such uses shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   No illuminated signs shall be within 36 inches of the surface of
a window.
         b.   Metal gates or similar elements are not permitted in front of or
behind windows.
         c.   Exterior building modifications, including paint colors, shall be
approved by the Planning Director and shall be in keeping with the context of
the surrounding buildings.
   VV.   Veterinary Clinic. Veterinary clinics shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All structures shall be designed and maintained in a manner to
prevent the development of unsanitary conditions;
      2.   All activities associated shall take place within enclosed and
soundproofed structures, or the use shall comply with the following separation
requirements:
         a.   All activities shall be at least 200 linear feet from a lot in a
residential or OI zoning district;
         b.   All activities shall be at least 100 linear feet from land zoned
NC; and
         c.   Outdoor areas used to house or exercise animals shall be enclosed
by a fence at least six feet in height.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-14, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-15,
passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-16, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-18, passed 10-4-
2021)
4.3.6   Industrial Uses
   A.   Asphalt or Concrete Plant. An asphalt or concrete plant shall comply
with the following standards:
      1.   Setbacks. An asphalt plant shall be located at least 50 feet from a
lot line.
      2.   Security Fencing. A security fence, a minimum of six feet in height,
shall be provided around the use.
      3.   Rehabilitation.
         a.   Within one year of the cessation of the use, all equipment and
stock piles incidental to the operation shall be dismantled and removed by and
at the expense of the landowner.
         b.   The site shall be drained to prevent the accumulation of standing
water, and channelization of the drainage shall be designed and controlled so
as not to cause erosion or silting of neighboring properties or public ways,
nor to appreciably increase the turbidity of any natural water course, or to
occlude any existing drainage course, except in an instance where redevelopment
for another permitted use is in progress.
      4.   Access.
         a.   Vehicular access shall be constructed with an all-weather surface
and be maintained in a dust-free condition.
         b.   Access drives shall be located no closer than 15 feet from a lot
line.
         c.   A plan shall be submitted showing truck routes to and from the
site. Such routes shall be designed to minimize impacts on residential areas,
schools, or other uses negatively affected by truck traffic.
   B.   Contractor Services/Yard.
      1.   Outdoor storage of equipment, materials, and vehicles shall be
screened from view from all adjacent single-family residential uses, public
rights-of-way, sidewalks, and greenways in accordance with the applicable
standards in Section
5.10, Screening.
      2.   Equipment can exceed the required fence height but should be stored
in a manner that limits visibility from the line of sight from all street
rights-of- way.
   C.   Extractive Industry. Quarries and other extractive industries shall
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   General Requirements.
         a.   The minimum development area shall be five acres.
         b.   The use shall not require the use of residential neighborhood
streets to gain ingress or egress.
         c.   Where the final slope of areas being excavated will exceed 30
percent, such areas shall be enclosed with a fence at least five feet high
located not less than ten feet from the excavation's edge.
         d.   Excavated areas, stockpiles, waste storage piles, and associated
processing, storage, and loading areas shall be fully screened from view from
major thoroughfares, collector streets, and lots in residential zoning
districts in accordance with the standards in Section
5.10, Screening.
         e.   No blasting operations shall be conducted during the hours from
6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and shall not cause unreasonable amounts of noise,
vibration, dust, or flying debris on nearby lots.
         f.   No operations shall impede the normal flow of any stream or
watercourse, silt up or pollute any stream, undermine any public road or
bridge, or promote flooding on adjacent land.
      2.   Rehabilitation Plan and Bond Required.
         a.   Upon discontinuance of operations, all buildings and equipment
shall be removed, and excavated areas shall be rehabilitated in accordance with
a rehabilitation plan included as part of the application to establish the use.
         b.   The rehabilitation plan shall identify the ways the site will be
to returned as closely as possible to its original condition or a condition
suitable for a specified alternate use. The rehabilitation plan shall address
the storage and protection of topsoil removed during the course of operations
as well as regrading, refertilization, and replanting.
         c.   The estimated cost of carrying out the rehabilitation plan shall
be filed with the application. Said estimate shall be certified as
approximately correct by a civil engineer licensed to practice in the State of
North Carolina.
         d.   A rehabilitation bond, payable to the Town and in a form approved
by the Town Attorney, shall be required in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of carrying out the rehabilitation plan.
         e.   The rehabilitation bond shall be maintained as a legally binding
obligation until such time as the Board of Commissioners determines that all
rehabilitation work has been satisfactorily completed.
         f.   If the Board of Commissioners finds that extractive uses have
been discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive calendar months and that no
major attempts have been made to implement the rehabilitation plan, it shall
order forfeiture of the bond and the proceeds shall be used to carry out, to
the extent possible, the rehabilitation plan.
   D.   Flex Space. Flex space use shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Flex space uses shall meet the off-street parking requirement for
this use type in
Table 5.8.4.H: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table, not the
individual types of uses within the flex space.
      2.   The following activities shall not be included within a flex space
use type:
         a.   Residential dwellings;
         b.   Religious institutions;
         c.   Adult businesses;
         d.   Eating establishments;
         e.   Bars, cocktail lounges, or private clubs;
         f.   Nightclubs or dance halls; or
         g.   Heavy manufacturing uses.
      3.   Outdoor storage or business-related activity is permitted as an
accessory use.
   E.   Fuel Oil/Bottled Gas Distributor. Uses storing 100,000 or more gallons
of petroleum products as a principal or accessory use shall comply with all
applicable Zebulon Fire Department and Fire Prevention Code of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters requirements, all above-ground storage tanks and
loading facilities shall be located at least 50 feet from any front lot line.
   F.   Landfill. Land clearing and inert debris (LCID) landfills and
construction debris (CD) landfills shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   LCID and CD landfills shall be set back at least 300 feet from any
existing residential use, school, or child care use, and shall provide a Type D
landscape buffer around its perimeter (see Section
5.6.10, Perimeter Buffers).
      2.   Access to a landfill shall be controlled through the use of a fence,
wall, gate, or other suitable device to prevent unregulated dumping.
      3.   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner which prevents
dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
      4.   No filling associated with a landfill shall take place within in any
flood hazard area, drainage ways, or utility easements.
   G.   Makerspace. Makerspace uses shall be configured in accordance with the
following standards:
      1.   No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
      2.   The use shall include adequate ventilation and equipment for the
dispersal of vapors, dust, or airborne contaminates created within the
structure;
      3.   The use shall include a fire suppression system as required by the
fire marshal;
      4.   No operation between the hours of 11:00 PM and 7:00 AM;
      5.   Incidental sale of products created on site is permitted.
   H.   Manufacturing.
      1.   Manufacturing, Heavy. Heavy manufacturing uses shall comply with the
following standards:
         a.   Heavy manufacturing uses shall be located at least 1,000 feet
from any residential district.
         b.   A Type D perimeter buffer of at least 25 feet in depth shall be
provided along any boundary with another property not zoned for heavy industry.
      2.   Manufacturing, Light. All light manufacturing uses shall comply with
the following standards:
         a   Buffer and setback areas in the side and rear may not be used for
parking.
         b.   Finished products for display and sale shall not occupy more than
40 percent of the land area between the principal building and all adjacent
streets.
   I.   Public Convenience Center/Transfer Station. A transfer station shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Access shall be controlled through the use of a fence, wall, gate,
or other suitable device to prevent unregulated dumping.
      2.   Vehicular access shall be constructed with an all-weather surface
and be maintained in a dust-free condition.
      3.   Be located at least 150 feet from a residential district and
operated entirely within an enclosed building, except for loading facilities
which may be located outdoors.
      4.   Outdoor storage of waste material is prohibited.
   J.   Recycling Center. Recycling centers shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Recycled batteries must be stored in non-porous containers.
      2.   All loading and storage areas shall be diked to prevent runoff/spill
contamination.
      3.   Recycled motor oil and grease shall be stored in above-ground tanks
approved by the Zebulon Fire Chief.
   K.   Salvage or Junk Yard. Junk yards, including junked automobile storage,
shall be subject to the following regulations:
      1.   Junk yards shall be located at least 200 linear feet, as measured
from the required perimeter screening from any lot in a residential zoning
district.
      2.   An opaque screen eight feet in height shall be required around all
boundaries.
      3.   Any planted opaque screen shall be at least four feet in height when
planted.
      4.   No required front or side yard shall be used for storage purposes.
   L.   Solar Farm. A solar farm use shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Be on a site of at least one acre in area;
      2.   Signage shall be limited to ownership and contact information, and
any other information required by government regulation. Commercial advertising
is prohibited. Nothing in this section shall prohibit signage that is legally
approved for other uses on the same lot or site on which the solar array
facility is located;
      3.   Be enclosed with a fence of at least six feet in height; and
      4.   Not create glare or shadows on adjacent lands.
   M.   Truck or Freight Terminal. Truck or freight terminals shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   The use shall be located at least 500 feet from any residential
district, school, or child care center.
      2.   The use shall not locate storage areas within a required setback or
perimeter buffer.
      3.   The use shall have direct access onto an major arterial street.
   N.   Warehouse, Distribution or Storage.
      1.   In the GC district, warehouse uses shall be conducted entirely
indoors and no exterior storage is permitted.
      2.   In the downtown districts, warehouse uses are only permitted as an
accessory use to a separate principal use.
   O.   Wholesale Sales.
      1.   In the GC district, wholesale sales uses shall be conducted entirely
indoors and no exterior storage is permitted.
      2.   In the downtown districts, wholesale sales are only permitted as an
accessory use to a separate principal use.
   P.   Wind Energy Conversion. A wind energy conversion facility shall comply
with the following standards:
      1.   Location.
         a.   No tower associated with a large wind energy facility shall be
located within 1,000 feet of land in a R4 or R6 district or a public park.
         b.   All ground-based equipment buildings shall be located under the
blade sweep area, to the maximum extent practicable.
      2.   Setbacks.
         a.   All towers associated with a large wind energy facility shall be
set back a distance equal to one-and-one-half times the overall height of the
tower and associated wind turbine blade.
         b.   All associated facilities other than towers and associated wind
turbines shall be subject to the setback standards for the district where
located.
      3.   Tower Structure. Large wind energy facilities shall utilize monopole
or self- supporting towers
      4.   Common Configuration. All towers and turbines within a single large
wind energy facility shall maintain uniform design in terms of the following
features:
         a.   Tower type;
         b.   Tower, turbine, and blade colors;
         c.   The number of blades per turbine; and
         d.   The direction of blade rotation.
      5.   Height. The maximum height of a large wind energy system (including
the tower and extended blades) shall be 450 feet.
      6.   Blade Clearance. The blade tip or vane of any large wind energy
facility shall have a minimum ground clearance of 75 feet above grade, as
measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades. No blades shall extend
over public rights-of-way.
      7.   Unauthorized Access. All large wind energy facilities shall
incorporate anti- climbing devices to prevent unauthorized climbing.
      8.   Utilities. Except for transmission lines, all utilities associated
with a large wind energy facility shall be located underground.
      9.   Appearance. The wind turbine and tower shall be painted or finished
in the color originally applied by the manufacturer, or a matte neutral color
(e.g., gray, white, or galvanized steel).
      10.   Lighting. No illumination of the turbine or tower shall be allowed,
unless required by the (FAA). In the event obstruction lighting is required by
the           FAA, it shall be of the lowest intensity allowed, and strobes or
blinking lights shall be avoided, to the maximum extent practicable.
      11.   Signage Prohibited. Signage visible from any public street or off-
site area shall be limited to the manufacturer's or installer's identification,
appropriate warning signs, or owner identification.
      12.   Sound. The noise at the lot line produced by the wind energy
conversion facility during operation shall not exceed 55 dBA. This standard
shall not apply during power outages, windstorms, or other conditions beyond
the owner's control.
      13.   Shadow Flicker. Shadows cast by the rotating blade of a large wind
energy facility shall not fall upon off-site areas.
      14.   Interference. The owner shall take all reasonable steps to prevent
or eliminate interference with transmission of communications signals (e.g.,
radio, television, telephone, etc.) resulting from a wind energy conversion
facility.
      15.   Abandonment.
         a.   On determining that a large wind energy conversion facility has
been inoperable for 180 days or more, the Planning Director may issue a Notice
of Abandonment to the facility owner.
         b.   The facility owner shall restore operation of the wind energy
conversion facility within 30 days of receipt of the Notice of Abandonment, or
file a Notice of Termination with the Planning Director.
         c.   The wind energy conversion facility shall be removed from the
site within three months of the filing of a Notice of Termination.
         d.   Removal of a wind energy conversion facility shall include
removal of all of the following features:
            i.   Towers;
            ii.   Turbines;
            iii.   Above-ground equipment;
            iv.   Outdoor storage;
            v.   Foundations to a depth of four feet below grade; and
            vi.   Any hazardous material associated with the facility.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.3.7   Agricultural Uses
   A.   Agriculture and Horticulture. Sale of produce grown on-site or on an
adjacent lot that is part of the same agricultural operation is permitted
provided they take place outside the right-of-way.
   B.   Agricultural Support Services.
      1.   General. All directly-related agricultural support services shall
comply with the following standards:
         a.   Be allowed only in direct association with an on-going
agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, or silvicultural use;
         b.   Be on a lot of at least one acre in size; and
         c.   Be operated or maintained by the owner or occupant of the land
upon which the primary agricultural activity is being conducted.
      2.   Agri-Education and Agri-Entertainment. Agri-education and agri-
entertainment uses shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Minimum Size. Be at least two acres in area;
         b.   Obtain Building Permits. Obtain building permits and comply with
the State Building Code(s) for all structures intended for occupancy by members
of the public;
         c.   Special Event Permit. Obtain a special event permit for all
activities drawing more than 100 people to the site per day;
         d.   Provide Adequate Facilities. Provide public restrooms, adequate
parking, and pedestrian circulation features; and
         e.   Comply with Minimum Requirements. Ensure permanent buildings
within 500 feet of a public right-of-way comply with the landscaping standards
in this Ordinance.
      3.   Equestrian Facilities. Equestrian facilities shall comply with the
following standards:
         a.   The land on which the facility is located shall be at least two
acres in size.
         b.   No stalls or stables shall be within 200 feet of any existing
adjoining residential dwelling and 100 feet from any adjoining well being used
for human consumption.
         c.   Stables must be operated and maintained in a healthy and safe
manner. Healthy and safe is defined as, but not limited to: fences kept in good
repair; potable water available on demand; protection from wind or rain; a sign
posted indicating the name and phone number of the person to be contacted in
case of emergency.
      4.   Nursery, Production.
         a.   No heated greenhouse shall be operated within 20 feet of any lot
line.
         b.   Any outside storage of equipment, vehicles, or supplies shall be
fully screened from off-site views by buildings, fencing, or landscaping.
      5.   Roadside Market.
         a.   Retail sales within a roadside market shall be limited to the
agricultural and aquaculture products produced by the owners or vendors in the
establishment.
         b.   At least 75 percent of the floor area shall be devoted to the
direct retail sales of agricultural, seafood, or related agricultural products
to the general public.
         c.   Temporary signage associated with a roadside market shall not be
erected more than 30 days prior to the seasonal opening of the market, and
shall be removed within 30 days of the closing of the season.
   C.   Animal Husbandry. Animal husbandry uses shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Outside Corporate Limits. Animal husbandry is only permitted on lots
located outside the Town's corporate limits.
      2.   Minimum Site Size.
         a.   Any use engaged in animal husbandry shall have a minimum lot area
of at least 20,000 square feet in size.
         b.   Uses maintaining non-hoofed animals shall maintain 1,500 square
feet per animal kept on site.
         c.   Uses maintaining hoofed animals shall maintain 9,000 square feet
per animal kept on site.
      3.   Minimum Setbacks. All barns, pens, and enclosures shall be located
at least 100 linear feet from lot lines and drinking water sources (except
those intended for livestock).
      4.   Fencing or Pens Required. Animals (excluding waterfowl) shall be
maintained within pens, fenced areas, or other suitable enclosures.
      5.   Maintenance Required.
         a.   Pens, stalls, and grazing areas shall be maintained in a sanitary
manner free from noxious odors.
         b.   Manure stockpiles shall not exceed six feet in height and shall
not be permitted during the period from May 1 until August 31.
   D.   Farmer's Market. A farmer's market shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   The use shall be a principal use of the lot where located.
      2.   Retail sales shall be limited to the agricultural and aquaculture
products produced by the owners or vendors in the establishment.
      3.   At least 75 percent of the floor area shall be devoted to the direct
retail sales of agricultural, seafood, or related agricultural products to the
general public.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.4.   ACCESSORY USES
4.4.1.   Purpose
This section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses and structures that
are incidental and subordinate to principal uses. The purpose of this section
is to allow a broad range of accessory uses and structures, provided they
comply with the standards set forth in this section in order to reduce
potentially adverse impacts on surrounding lands.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.4.2.   Organization of These Standards
These standards set out the standards and allowable locations for accessory
uses and structures in the Town's planning jurisdiction, and are organized into
the following sections:
   A.   Section
4.4.3, Procedure for Establishment, describes the procedure for establishing an
accessory use or structure.
   B.   Section
4.4.4, General Standards for Accessory Uses and Structures, lists the general
standards applicable to all accessory uses and structures under this Ordinance.
   C.   Section
4.4.6: Accessory Use Table, lists a series of common accessory uses and the
zoning districts where they are permitted.
   D.   Section
4.4.7, Standards for Specific Accessory Uses, sets out additional standards
applied to individual accessory use types where identified in
Table 4.4.6: Accessory Use Table.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.4.3.   Procedure for Establishment
   A.   Accessory uses or structures may be approved in conjunction with the
approval of the principal use or subsequently following the establishment of
the principal use. No
accessory use or structure shall be approved, established, or constructed
before the principal use is approved in accordance with this Ordinance.
   B.   Applications to establish a conditional zoning district shall be
supplemented by a site plan showing proposed accessory uses or by a written
list of proposed accessory uses which shall be attached to the application
approval along with other conditions of approval.
   C.   
Table 4.4.6: Accessory Use Table, may not be inclusive of all possible
accessory uses, and in the event an accessory use is proposed that is not
listed in the table, the Planning Director shall consult
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, to determine if the proposed accessory use
corresponds to a listed principal use. Any listed principal use is permitted as
an accessory use in any zoning district where the principal use is permitted.
In no instance shall an accessory use be permitted in a zoning district where
it is prohibited as a principal use.
   D.   In the event a proposed accessory use is not listed in
Table 4.4.6: Accessory Use Table, and there is no corresponding principal use,
the Planning Director shall determine how to treat the accessory use in
accordance with Section
4.6, Unlisted Uses.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.4.4.   General Standards for Accessory Uses and Structures
   A.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. Permitted accessory uses and
structures include those listed in this section and those that the Planning
Director determines meet the following:
      1.   Are clearly incidental to an allowed principal use or structure;
      2.   Are subordinate to and serving an allowed principal use or
structure;
      3.   Are subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal use or
structure; or
      4.   Contribute to the comfort, convenience or needs of occupants,
business or industry associated with the principal use or structure.
   B.   Location of Accessory Uses and Structures.
      1.   Within Required Landscaping Buffers. Except for fences and walls
contributing to the screening function of a buffer, no accessory structure
shall be located within a required buffer except in accordance with Section
5.6, Landscaping, or Section
5.10, Screening.
      2.   Within a Front or Side Yard.
         a.   Except for the following, no accessory use or structure may be
located in a required front or side yard:
            i.   Art installation;
            ii.   Cluster box unit;
            iii.   Fence or wall;
            iv.   Flag pole and flag;
            v.   Outdoor display of merchandise; or
            vi.   Produce stand.
         b.   On corner lots, an accessory structure or use shall not be closer
to the street than the street setback.
      3.   Within Other Areas on a Site.
         a.   No accessory use or structure shall:
            i.   Be within five feet of a lot line, except as authorized by
Table 9.3.5: Allowable Encroachment into Required Setbacks;
            ii.   Be within ten feet of the centerline of an alley except as
authorized by
Table 9.3.5: Allowable Encroachment into Required Setbacks;
            iii.   Be located within a designated fire lane;
            iv.   Obstruct required sight distances;
            v.   Impede ingress or egress to a lot, site, or principal
structure;
            vi.   Be located above or beneath public utilities (except for
fences or walls); or
            vii.   Be within an emergency access route designated on an
approved site plan.
         b.   Accessory structures may encroach into required yards only in
accordance with the standards in
Table 9.3.5: Allowable Encroachment into Required Setbacks.
      4.   Within an Easement. Except for authorized stormwater management
devices within a drainage easement, no accessory use or structure shall be
located within any platted or recorded easement without the prior written
consent of the landowner.
   C.   Structure Height. Accessory structures shall comply with the maximum
building height requirements for the zoning district where located, except that
accessory structures within 10 feet of a lot line shall not be taller than 15
feet.
   D.   Compliance with Ordinance Requirements. Accessory uses and structures
shall conform to the applicable requirements of this Ordinance, including this
section, the district standards in
Chapter 3: Districts, the development standards in
Chapter 5: Development Standards.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.4.5.   Table as Guide
Table 4.4.6: Accessory Use Table, is established as a guide to identify the
appropriateness of the more common accessory uses in each zoning district.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.4.6.   Listed Accessory Uses
Table 4.4.6: Accessory Use Table, lists what types of accessory uses,
structures, and activities are allowed in each of the zoning districts.
   A.   If a specific accessory use is allowed by-right, the cell underneath
the zoning district is marked with a "P".
   B.   If a specific accessory use is allowed subject to a special use permit,
the cell underneath the zoning district is marked with a "S".
   C.   If the accessory use or structure is not allowed in a zoning district,
the cell is blank.
   D.   In the case of planned development districts, if an accessory use is
allowable, it is marked with an "A", and the accessory use must be set out in
the approved master plan.
   E.   If there is a reference contained in the column entitled "Acc. Use-
Specific Standards," refer to the cited section (s) for additional standards
that apply to the specific accessory use.
TABLE 4.4.6: ACCESSORY USE TABLE [1]
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use- specific standards; “.” =
Prohibited
Use Type [1] Residential     Commercial        Mixed Use     Use- Specific
                                                             Standards [2]
            R1 R2 R4 R6 RMF NC GC HC LI CI HI OI DTC DTP PD  
TABLE 4.4.6: ACCESSORY USE TABLE [1]
A = Allowed (if listed in a PD master plan); P = Permitted subject to
applicable use-specific standards; S = Requires approval of a special use
permit and compliance with applicable use- specific standards; “.” = Prohibited
Use Type [1]      Residential     Commercial        Mixed Use     Use- Specific
                                                                  Standards [2]
                 R1 R2 R4 R6 RMF NC GC HC LI CI HI OI DTC DTP PD  
Accessory         P  P  P  P  P   P  .  .  .  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.A
Dwelling Unit
Amateur Ham Radio P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.B
Art Installation  P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  .  P  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.C
Automated Teller  .  .  .  .  .   P  P  P  P  P  S  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.D
Machine
Bus Shelter       .  .  .  P  P   P  P  P  P  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.E
Child Care,       P  P  P  P  P   P  .  .  .  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.F
Incidental
Cluster Box Unit  P  P  P  P  P   P  P  .  .  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.G
Drive Through     .  .  .  .  .   S  P  P  .  .  .  S  .   .   A  4.4.7.I
Electric Vehicle  .  .  .  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.J
Charging Station
Family Health     P  P  P  P  P   P  .  .  .  .  .  P  .   P   A  4.4.7.K
Care Structure
Guard House,
Shelter, or       P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  .   .   A  4.4.7.L
Gatehouse
Helistop          .  .  .  .  .   .  .  S  S  S  S  .  .   .   A  4.4.7.M
Home Occupation   P  P  P  P  P   P  P  .  .  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.N
Ice House         .  .  .  .  .   P  P  P  S  .  .  .  .   .   A  4.4.7.O
Outdoor Dining    .  .  .  .  P   P  P  P  .  P  .  P  P   P   A
Outdoor Display/  .  .  .  .  .   P  P  P  P  .  .  S  P   P   A  4.4.7.P
Sales
Outdoor Storage   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  S  S  S  P  .  .   .   A  4.4.7.Q
Parking of Heavy
Trucks or         .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  P  P  P  .  .   .   .  0
Trailers
Parking of
Recreational      P  P  P  P  P   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   A  4.4.7. S
Vehicles
Storage of
Unlicensed or     .  P  P  P  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .
Inoperable
Vehicles
Play Equipment    P  P  P  P  P   P  P  .  .  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.T
Produce Stand     P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  .  .  .  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.U
Solar Energy      P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   A  4.4.7.V
Systems
Stable (horses)   P  P  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   A  4.4.7.W
Swimming Pool/Hot P  P  P  P  P   P                 P  P   P   A  4.4.7.X
Tub
Tool/Storage Shed P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   A
Underground       .  .  .  .  .   .     S  P  P  P  .  .   .   A  4.4.7.Y
Storage Tank
Wagering, Sports  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  P  P  P  S  .  .   P   A  4.4.7.Z
Wind Energy       .  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  .   .   A  4.4.7.AA
Conversion
Note:
[1] Unlisted accessory uses may be permitted in accordance with Section
4.4.3, Procedure for Establishment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
4.4.7.   Standards for Specific Accessory Uses
Standards for a specific accessory use or structure shall apply to the
particular individual accessory use or structure regardless of the zoning
district in which it is located or the review procedure by which it is
approved, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance. This section sets forth
and consolidates the standards for all accessory uses and structures for which
a reference to this section is provided in the "Acc. Use-Specific Standards"
column of
Table 4.4.6: Accessory Use Table. These standards may be modified by other
applicable standards or requirements in this Ordinance.
   A.   Accessory Dwelling Unit. An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is permitted
as accessory to a single-family detached dwelling, and shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   No more than one ADU shall be located on a lot with a single-family
detached dwelling.
      2.   An ADU shall not exceed 35 percent of the total amount of finished
floor area in the principal structure.
      3.   An ADU shall not exceed one story, but nothing shall limit an ADU
from being located on a second or third story provided the structure complies
with the applicable maximum height limitations in the district where located.
      4.   An ADU and the principal dwelling shall have the same street address
and mailbox.
      5.   An ADU shall not be subdivided or otherwise separated in ownership
from the principal dwelling unit.
      6.   An ADU and the principal dwelling shall utilize the same driveway,
unless the ADU is accessed from a right-of-way not used by the principal
dwelling (e.g., a rear alley or separate street access on a corner or through
lot).
      7.   An ADU shall be served by water, sanitary sewer, gas, and electrical
utilities as part of the principal dwelling.
   B.   Amateur Ham Radio.
      1.   Towers associated with an amateur ham radio operator or private
television antenna shall not exceed 100 feet above grade.
      2.   Towers or antennas attached to a principal structure shall be
located on a side or rear elevation.
      3.   Freestanding towers or antennas shall be located behind the
principal structure.
   C.   Art Installation. In no instance shall an art installation visible from
a street or off-site area depict specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities as defined by this Ordinance and the North Carolina General
Statutes.
   D.   Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
      1.   An ATM designed for walk-up use and located in the exterior wall of
a building or a parking area shall be designed to avoid obstructions to
pedestrian movement along sidewalks, through public use areas, or between
parking areas and building entrances, or vehicular movement in front of
buildings or through parking areas.
      2.   If an ATM is designed for use by customers in their vehicles, it
shall comply with the accessory use standards (including districts where
permitted) in Section
4.4.7.H, Drive Through.
      3.   The overall character of an automated teller machine in terms of
materials, colors, and architectural character shall be compatible with that of
the principal structure.
   E.   Bus Shelter. Nothing shall limit the placement of a bus shelter within
a required yard or setback, provided it shall:
      1.   Maintain a maximum size or floor area of 100 square feet or less;
      2.   A height of 15 feet or less;
      3.   Be located outside any required sight distance triangles; and
      4.   Maintain a minimum distance of five feet from a street right-of-way.
   F.   Child Care, Incidental. An incidental child care or home day care for
three or more children is permitted as accessory to an occupied residential
dwelling unit if it complies with Article 7 of Chapter 110 of the North
Carolina General Statutes, and the following standards:
      1.   Care is provided within a principal dwelling unit.
      2.   The maximum number of children receiving child care in the use at
any given moment does not exceed six (provision of day care services for more
than six children at any given moment is treated as a day care center by this
Ordinance, and requires licensure from the State as a day care center).
      3.   It complies with all applicable home occupation requirements, except
the gross floor area limitation, which may be exceeded.
      4.   It is licensed by the State of North Carolina and complies with all
applicable State requirements.
   G.   Cluster Box Unit. Cluster box units shall comply with the standards of
the United States Postal Service and the relevant standards in the Town's
Standard Details and Specifications.
   H.   Detached Accessory Structures. Detached accessory structures that are
accessory to residential uses shall comply with the following standards unless
otherwise specified by this Ordinance:
      1.   All detached accessory structures shall he located on the same
parcel as the principal structure.
      2.   Detached accessory structures located on a parcel of 2 acres or less
shall not exceed the height of the principal structure.
      3.   A total square footage for all detached accessory structures shall
not exceed 35% of the total amount of finished floor area in the principal
structure for a lot 2 acres or less.
      4.   The total square footage of all detached accessory structures
located on the lot may increase by 5% for each acre over 2 acres.
      5.   Detached accessory structures on lots greater than 10 acres shall
not be subject to these size limitations.
   I.   Drive Through. Drive-through facilities shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Outdoor speakers associated with a drive-through shall be at least
50 feet from any lot with a residential zoning district designation.
      2.   Drive-through windows, menus, or order boxes shall not be located on
the front facade of the building they serve.
      3.   Drive-through facilities shall be designed so as not to obstruct the
movement of pedestrians along sidewalks, through areas intended for public use,
or between the building entrance and customer parking spaces.
      4.   Canopies or other features installed over a drive through window
shall maintain common roof lines and materials with the principal structure
   J.   Electric Vehicle Charging Station.
      1.   Electric Vehicle (EV) charging station spaces shall be reserved for
the charging of electric vehicles only and shall be posted with signage
identifying the spaces as reserved only for the charging of electric vehicles,
amperage and voltage levels, any enforceable time limits or tow away
provisions, and contact information for reporting non-operating equipment or
other problems.
      2.   A required accessible parking space may also serve as an EV charging
station space, provided the charging station and its controls meet ADA
standards for accessibility to persons with physical disabilities.
      3.   EV charging station equipment shall be located so as not to
interfere with vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian access and circulation, or with
required landscaping.
   K.   Family Health Care Structure. One family health care structure is
permitted on a lot with a single-family detached dwelling, in accordance with
the standards in Section 160D-915 of the North Carolina General Statutes, and
the following standards:
      1.   Structure. A family health care structure is one that:
         a.   Is transportable and primarily assembled at a location other than
the site of installation;
         b.   Is located on a lot with an existing single-family detached
dwelling;
         c.   Is limited to one occupant who is a mentally or physically
impaired person related to the caregiver;
         d.   Is used by a caregiver or legal guardian in providing care for
one mentally or physically impaired person on property owned or occupied as the
caregiver's or guardian's residence;
         e.   Has no more than 300 square feet of gross floor area;
         f.   Is connected with water, sewer and electricity by branching
service from the single-family detached dwelling;
         g.   Has the same street address and mailbox as the existing single-
family detached dwelling;
         h.   Uses the same driveway as the existing single-family dwelling,
unless the structure is accessed from a right-of-way not used by the dwelling
(e.g., a rear alley or separate street access on a corner or through lot);
         i.   Meets the dimensional standards of the zoning district for a
single- family detached dwelling; and
         j.   Meets the applicable provisions in the State Building Code(s);
however, is not located on a permanent foundation.
      2.   Need and Relationship.
         a.   The occupant of the structure must be a mentally or physically
impaired person that is a resident of the State who requires assistance with
two or more activities of daily living (bathing, dressing, personal hygiene,
ambulation or locomotion, transferring, toileting, and eating) as certified in
writing by a physician licensed to practice in this State.
         b.   The caregiver must be an individual 18 years of age or older who
provides care for the mentally or physically impaired person and is a first or
second degree relative of the impaired person. A first or second degree
relative is a spouse, lineal ascendant, lineal descendant, sibling, uncle,
aunt, nephew or niece, including half, step, and inlaw relationships.
      3.   Permit Conditions.
         a.   Once the applicant provides sufficient proof that the family
health care structure meets all standards, then the structure shall be
permitted for a period of 12 months.
         b.   The applicant may renew the zoning compliance permit for a 12-
month period and continue to renew it provided the applicant provides evidence
of continued need and compliance with these standards.
         c.   The Town may make permit renewal and periodic inspections of the
temporary structure at reasonable times convenient to the applicant.
         d.   No signage shall be permitted on the exterior of the structure or
on the lot that identifies or promotes the existence of the structure.
         e.   The structure shall not be subdivided or otherwise separated in
ownership from the single-family detached dwelling.
         f.   The structure shall be removed within 60 days if the impaired
occupant is no longer receiving or in need of assistance.
         g.   The zoning compliance permit may be revoked or other enforcement
actions taken if these standards are violated.
   L.   Guard House, Shelter, or Gatehouse. Nothing shall limit the placement
of a guard house, guard shelter, or gatehouse within a required yard or
setback, provided it shall:
      1.   Maintain a maximum size or floor area of 100 square feet or less;
      2.   A height of 15 feet or less;
      3.   Be located outside any required sight distance triangles; and
      4.   Maintain a minimum distance of five feet from a street right-of-way.
   M.   Helistop. Auxiliary facilities such as parking, waiting room, fueling,
and maintenance equipment are not permitted.
   N.   Home Occupation. Customary home occupations such as home offices,
beauty parlors, dressmaking, laundering, music teaching, tutoring, etc., shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Home occupation accessory uses shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate to a dwelling's use for residential purposes by its occupants.
      2.   Except for home offices, home occupations shall be engaged in only
by a resident on the premises, and not more than one employee may be a
nonresident. Home offices shall be limited to no more than two employees not
residing on the premises.
      3.   No more than 25 percent of the first floor area of a dwelling shall
be used for home occupations.
      4.   No display of goods or advertising shall be visible from the street.
      5.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interferences
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single- family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used that creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in
line voltage off the premises.
      6.   No accessory buildings shall be used for home occupations.
      7.   Only one commercial vehicle with up to one attached trailer
associated with the home occupation may be parked or stored on the lot.
      8.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
   O.   Ice House. Ice houses of 50 square feet in size or larger shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Ice houses shall provide at least one designated off-street parking
space and shall not occupy any off-street parking spaces required for the
principal use.
      2.   Any signage shall comply with the signage provisions for the
district where located.
      3.   All roof-top mechanical equipment shall be screened.
      4.   A litter receptacle shall be provided, and shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition.
      5.   Ice houses shall not be allowed as a primary use.
   P.   Outdoor Display/Sales. The outdoor display and sale of goods shall be
limited to a commercial or mixed use and shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Except in the downtown districts, an outdoor display/sales area
shall not be located within a required front yard or street setback.
      2.   In the downtown districts, outdoor display/sales areas may be
located on or adjacent to the sidewalk provided the display is attached to or
located immediately adjacent to a building's front facade wall.
      3.   Outdoor display/sales areas shall not be located any closer than
five feet from any lot line.
      4.   Outdoor display/sales areas shall not be located within any local or
State site easement.
      5.   Outdoor display areas shall maintain at least five feet of space
along the side of the display free of obstruction to allow for pedestrian and
handicap movement, such that pedestrians do not have to step off the sidewalk
or enter the drive aisle to see the merchandise.
   Q.   Outdoor Storage.
      1.   General Standards. The following standards shall apply to all
outdoor storage areas other than uses where outdoor storage is the principal
use of land (see
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table).
         a.   The extent of the outdoor storage area shall be clearly
delineated on a site plan.
         b.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the minimum setback
standards applicable in the zoning district where the outdoor storage area is
located.
         c.   Outdoor storage areas are prohibited between the development's
principal structure(s) and a thoroughfare (major and minor) or collector
street.
         d.   Outdoor storage areas shall be fully screened in accordance with
the applicable standards in Section
5.10, Screening.
         e.   No outdoor storage area shall be located within a required
landscaping area.
         f.   Stored goods, materials, and equipment shall be limited to those
goods, materials, and equipment associated with the principal use or uses of
the lot.
         g.   No materials shall be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
         h.   No materials shall be stored on any potable or non-potable water
easement, stormwater easement, or sanitary sewer easement.
      2.   Screening Requirements. Outdoor storage shall be screened in
accordance with the applicable standards in Section
5.10, Screening.
   R.   Parking of Trucks or Trailers.
      1.   The parking and/or storage of motorized and non-motorized vehicles
in excess of 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight shall be prohibited in all
residential districts except for loading and unloading purposes; for emergency
home service; for use in the conduct of a legal non-conforming use; for
temporary construction purposes; or for bona fide agricultural purposes.
      2.   No apparatus designed to be used as a motor vehicle or designed to
be towed by a separate motorized unit or vehicle shall be allowed to be used as
a storage facility or accessory building in any residential district.
   S.   Parking of Recreational Vehicles. Nothing herein shall be construed so
as to prohibit the parking of personal recreational vehicles including but not
limited to motor homes, vans, or campers.
   T.   Play Equipment. Play equipment shall comply with the setback
requirements for the zoning district where located, though it may encroach into
setbacks in accordance with
Table 9.3.5: Allowable Encroachment into Required Setbacks.
   U.   Produce Stand. The sale of fresh vegetables and produce, as defined in
Section 160D-903 of the North Carolina General Statutes, from curbside stands
or in a similar fashion shall:
      1.   Be located on the same lot as a principal use;
      2.   Be limited to retail sale of agricultural or horticultural products
grown on-site or in agricultural facilities under the same ownership as the
produce stand;
      3.   Be located outside sight distance triangles or other areas that may
result in visual obstructions to drivers;
      4.   Not exceed 1,000 square feet in area; and
      5.   Provide adequate ingress/egress and off-street parking.
   V.   Solar Energy System. A solar energy system (SES) shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   A SES may be roof-mounted, attached to a principal or accessory
structure, be ground-mounted, or placed over a parking or other hard-surface
area.
      2.   The footprint of a ground-mounted SES shall not exceed 50 percent of
the floorplate of the principal structure, or one acre, whichever is less.
      3.   An SES shall comply with the dimensional requirements for the
district where located, as modified by Section
4.4.4, General Standards for Accessory Uses and Structures.
      4.   An SES shall not obscure required sight distance triangles.
      5.   A SES may be placed within a required landscaping area provided it
does not compromise the screening objective of the landscaping.
      6.   Ground-mounted SES facilities are exempted from the screening
requirements in Section
5.10, Screening.
      7.   Ground-mounted SES facilities shall not exceed 20 feet in height
above adjacent pre-construction grade.
   W.   Stable (Horses). Stables shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Stables are not permitted on land within the corporate limits.
      2.   The land on which the facility is located shall be at least two
acres in size.
      3.   No stalls or stables shall be within 200 feet of any existing
adjoining residential dwelling and 100 feet from any adjoining well being used
for human consumption.
      4.   Stables must be operated and maintained in a healthy and safe
manner. Healthy and safe is defined as, but not limited to: fences kept in good
repair; potable water available on demand; protection from wind or rain; a sign
posted indicating the name and phone number of the person to be contacted in
case of emergency.
   X.   Swimming Pool/Hot Tub.
      1.   Swimming pools built as accessory uses to a residential use shall be
completely isolated from adjacent lands and streets by a fence or other
structure having a minimum height of four feet and configured to prevent small
children from gaining unsupervised access to the pool.
      2.   Gates or doors opening into the area around the swimming pool from
outside the dwelling shall have self-closing and self-latching devises for
keeping the gate or door closed at all times when not in use.
      3.   These standards shall apply to any built structure placed or
constructed for the purpose of bathing or swimming with a depth of two feet or
more.
      4.   Swimming pools included as an accessory use to a single-family
subdivision shall include one off-street parking space for every four persons
of design capacity.
   Y.   Underground Storage Tank. Underground storage tanks shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Underground storage tanks shall not be located within required
setbacks, easements, or beneath public rights-of-way.
      2.   Underground storage tanks shall be installed and operated only in
accordance with the State Building Code(s) and all applicable Fire Code
requirements.
      3.   Underground storage tanks shall be depicted on site plans and as-
builts.
   Z.   Wagering, Sports. Sports wagering in compliance with Sectionss 18C-901
through 18C-928 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   AA.   Wind Energy Conversion. Wind energy conversion uses shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Limited to one per principal use;
      2.   The facility shall not exceed 70 feet in height;
      3.   The facility shall maintain a minimum blade clearance of at least 20
feet from the ground; and
      4.   Sound levels shall not exceed 55 dBA.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2020-49, passed 6-1-2020; Ord. 2021-65,
passed 5-3- 2021; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
4.5.   TEMPORARY USES
4.5.1.   Purpose
This section allows for the establishment of specific temporary uses of limited
duration, provided that such uses do not negatively affect adjacent land, and
provided that such temporary uses are discontinued upon the expiration of a set
time period. Temporary uses shall not involve the construction or alteration of
any permanent building or structure.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.5.2.   Applicability
The standards in this section apply to non-permanent uses that take place on a
temporary basis whether on the same site or in different locations in the
jurisdiction. The activities listed in this section require the issuance of a
temporary use permit, except as exempted, in accordance with the standards in
Section
2.2.19, Temporary Use Permit, and compliance with the standards in Section
4.5.3, General Standards for Temporary Uses and Structures, and Section
4.5.4, Standards for Specific Temporary Uses.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.5.3.   General Standards for Temporary Uses and Structures
All temporary uses and structures shall comply with the following general
standards, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance:
   A.   General Standards. An applicant proposing a temporary use or structure
shall:
      1.   Secure written permission from the landowner;
      2.   Obtain the appropriate permits and licenses from the Town and other
agencies;
      3.   Comply with the requirements for temporary signs in Section
5.11, Signage;
      4.   Meet public utility end Town requirements for proper connection to
water, sewer, electrical and other utility service connections, as applicable;
      5.   Not violate the applicable conditions of approval that apply to a
site or use on the site;
      6.   Not result in a situation where the principal use, if present, fails
to comply with the standards of this Ordinance;
      7.   Ensure the site of a temporary use or structure contains sufficient
land area for the temporary use and for the parking and traffic movement
associated with the temporary use, without impacting environmentally sensitive
lands;
      8.   Ensure temporary uses remain in place no longer than 90 days if
located within the Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) district;
      9.   Provide adequate on-site restroom facilities (as appropriate); and
      10.   Cease all outdoor activities within 500 feet of a residential use
by 10:00 pm.
   B.   General Conditions. In approving a temporary use permit, the Planning
Director is authorized to impose any of the following general conditions upon
the premises benefited by the permit as may be necessary to reduce or minimize
any potential adverse impacts upon other property in the area, as long as the
condition relates to a situation created or aggravated by the proposed
temporary use. The Planning Director is authorized, where appropriate, to
require:
      1.   Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
access and egress;
      2.   Control of nuisance factors, such as but not limited to, the
prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent properties, noise,
vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, and heat;
      3.   Prohibition of the storage or use of hazardous materials;
      4.   Regulation of placement, height, size, and location of equipment;
      5.   Provision of sanitary and medical facilities;
      6.   Provision of solid waste collection and disposal;
      7.   Provision of security and safety measures;
      8.   Use of an alternate location or date;
      9.   Modification or elimination of certain proposed activities;
      10.   Regulation of operating hours and days, including limitation of the
duration to a shorter time period than requested or specified in this
subsection; and
      11.   Submission of a performance guarantee to ensure that any temporary
use will be removed from the lot or site within a reasonable time and the lot
or site will be restored to its former condition.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.5.4.   Standards for Specific Temporary Uses
   A.   Mobile Food Vendors.
      1.   Purpose. This section is designed to provide standards relative to
the accessibility, appearance, and safety regarding commercial food vending, as
well as to preserve the peace and enjoyment of residences and occupation of a
site by a properly licensed business.
      2.   Operational Regulations.
         a.   A mobile food vendor permit shall be required as provided for
herein.
         b.   The following activities shall not be required to obtain a mobile
food vendor permit provided that all required permits are obtained:
            I.   Mobile food vendors that stop based on customer demand for
point of sale service and move to a different location such as an ice cream
truck or similar operation.
            II.   Mobile food vendors operating as part of a Town of Zebulon
sponsored event.
            III.   Noncommercial private events held on single-family detached,
duplex lots, or common space owned by a home owners association, if applicable,
and that the mobile food vendor:
               i.   Is not open to the public, such as outdoor weddings,
employee parties and homeowner association events;
               ii.   Is located on a site with a single user and/or tenant;
and,
               iii.   Will not make, cause, or allow the making of any noise or
sound which exceeds the limits set forth in the Town of Zebulon's Code of
Ordinances, as may be amended from time to time, and will not generate adverse
traffic, or other nuisance impacts on adjacent properties.
         c.   Permits, unless sooner suspended or revoked, shall be valid for
no longer than one year expiring at the end of the calendar year.
         d.   Permit certificates shall be attached to the mobile food vendor
unit where they are readily visible and shall include the name, mailing
address, and valid phone number of the mobile food vendor unit owner and shall
list the addresses and parcel identification numbers where the permit is valid.
         e.   Routine inspections may be conducted by local inspectors on each
mobile food unit at any time and at any frequency deemed appropriate by the
Town.
         f.   Any mobile food vendor unit that has a suspended or revoked
permit by the State of North Carolina and/or Wake County, and on a subsequent
inspection, a State of North Carolina and/or Wake County Inspector determines
that the mobile food vendor has not corrected the violation(s), shall have its
Town-issued mobile food vendor permit revoked and food service shall cease in
the Town.
         g.   A permit issued under this section is not transferable.
      3.   Standards. The following standards shall apply to all mobile food
vendor permits unless exempt above:
         a.   No products shall be sold from any mobile food vendor unit which
is stopped, standing, or parked in any public street, right-of-way, or
         easement. Nor shall the mobile food vendor impede the flow of traffic
or pedestrians on the sidewalk.
         b.   Mobile food vendor units are prohibited on all parcels used for
residential purposes as designated on the Official Zoning Map or on the grounds
of any government office, facility, public park, recreation area, or other
similar public land within the Town, which is under the control, operation, or
management of the Town, except as otherwise allowed in this section or by law.
         c.   Mobile food vendors are allowed within the Town's planning
jurisdiction so long as the mobile food vendor unit is located on private
property designated and used for commercial, industrial, or nonresidential
purposes, subject to the following conditions:
            i.   Mobile food vendors shall not provide customer seating.
            ii.   No display areas, merchandise, or stored items in association
with the vendor or those associated with the principal use on the property,
which are displaced due to the vending activity, shall encroach onto any public
street, right-of-way, or easement, or onto any adjacent private property
without express permission from that property owner.
            iii.   The mobile food vendor shall set up and locate the vehicle,
wares, and/or any associated displays in accordance with the principal
structure setback requirements of the district where located.
            iv.   The mobile food vendor sales area shall not exceed more than
two parking spaces or six hundred square feet in area, whichever is greater.
However, at no time may the required number of parking spaces for the principal
use of the property be rendered nonconforming due to vendor use.
            v.   The mobile food vendor unit shall not interfere with required
parking, loading and unloading spaces or the vehicular access to those spaces
for the principal use.
            vi.   The mobile food vendor unit shall not block, damage, or
interfere with required landscaping, buffers, or stormwater drainage systems on
the subject property.
            vii.   During periods of nonuse, mobile food vendor equipment must
remain locked and secured, unless otherwise required by the State of North
Carolina or Wake County.
            viii.   The mobile food vendor shall be prohibited from selling or
distributing any type of glass container with the exception of sealed
prepackaged nonalcoholic beverages such as sodas or juices.
            ix.   Amplified music or other sounds from any mobile food vendor
unit for the purposes of vending products is prohibited.
            x.   All mobile food vendors shall operate in compliance with Title
IX: General Regulations, Chapter 97: Noise, of the Town Code of Ordinances.
            xi.   Mobile food vendors shall be prohibited from discharging fat,
oil, grease, or waste water into the sanitary sewer system. Waste shall be
properly stored and disposed of at a properly designated location.
            xii.   Each mobile food vending unit shall be equipped with
adequate trash receptacles and shall be responsible for the proper disposal of
solid waste from the site daily without using public waste receptacles. All
disturbed areas must be cleaned following each stop at a minimum of 20 feet of
the sales location.
            xiii.   Each mobile food vending unit shall be equipped with at
least one fire extinguisher with a minimum of a 2A-10-BC rating.
            xiv.   Vinyl wrapping, decals, stickers, painted text and/or
graphics, and menu boards affixed to the mobile food vendor unit shall not
count towards the maximum aggregate sign area.
      4.   Enforcement. The following provisions may be enforced by the Police
Department and the Planning Department.
         a.   Fine for Violation. Any mobile food vendor licensee operating in
violation of any provision within this section or any other rules and
regulations may be subject to a fine in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this Ordinance.
         b.   Revocation, Suspension, Modification.
            i.   The Board of Commissioners may modify a mobile food vendor
license, including an approved location:
               1.   At any time before the issuance of a mobile food vendor
license;
               2.   If after the issuance of such license, for cause, after
reasonable notice to the licensee of the grounds for the proposed modification
and the time and place of the hearing regarding such proposed modification; or
               3.   By request of the licensee.
            ii.   The Board may suspend, revoke, or decline to renew a mobile
food vendor license for cause, after reasonable notice to the licensee of the
grounds for the proposed action and the time and place of the hearing regarding
such proposed action.
   B.   Outdoor Seasonal Sales.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prevent the unrestricted
proliferation of open-air sales events within the town and to protect those
businesses and food services that operate from within principal buildings at
permanent locations in accordance with the law.
      2.   Exemptions. Sale of the following products or services are exempted
from these standards.
         a.   The sale or display of fruits, vegetables, other farm or homemade
products produced by the person offering them for sale in a commercial zoning
district with the permission of the property owner;
         b.   The sale or display of goods or merchandise (not including food
or food products) by a person, partnership, corporation or other entity at a
particular location if the sale or display of like or same items is conducted
in association with the party's sale or display of goods or merchandise at the
same location from or in a principal building that is regularly entered by the
general public for the transaction of business. The items to be sold are
limited to the same items that are sold inside the establishment, such as toys,
clothing, furniture and outdoor equipment.
         c.   Any nonprofit group, charitable or civic organization that
conducts open-air sales on either their own property or on other business
property for charitable or other fund-raising purposes.
         d.   Vendors at special events, such as the Christmas Parade, Arts in
the Park and the like selling goods only for that event. Food vendors will need
to obtain a permit from the Wake County Health Department.
         e.   Seasonal sales of Christmas trees, pumpkins, and similar
products.
      3.   Standards.
         a.   The maximum hours of operation of an outdoor seasonal sales use
shall be from 8:00 AM to 11:00 PM, except when located in a residential
district, then the seasonal sales use shall cease by 9:00 PM.
         b.   Exterior lighting shall comply with the requirements in Section
5.4, Exterior Lighting.
         c.   One recreational vehicle is allowed as a temporary dwelling for
security purposes in association with the seasonal sales use, provided it meets
the general standards of Section
4.5.4.E, Temporary Dwelling, and is removed at the end of the sales.
         d.   Upon termination of an open-air sale, all temporary buildings or
structures erected for the purpose of the use, and all trash and debris
generated in connection with the sale, shall be removed by the applicant or
owner of the premises.
         e.   Each permit issued pursuant to this section shall specify the
commencement date for the use and the date of expiration of the permit.
      4.   Duration.
         a.   Up to four permits may be issued to the same applicant during any
calendar year for a use subject to the provisions of this section, and at least
60 calendar days shall elapse between the issuance of permits to the same
applicant, same use at the same or different location, whether or not issued in
the same calendar year.
         b.   For purpose of this subdivision, an applicant shall be deemed to
include any predecessor business to the applicant, and any person, partnership,
corporation or other entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with the applicant.
   C.   Portable Storage Container. Portable storage containers may be
permitted as a use accessory to a single-family detached, single-family
attached, duplex, triplex, or quadplex dwelling unit, subject to the following
standards.
      1.   Types Distinguished. Portable storage containers shall take one of
the following three forms:
         a.   A container used for the purposes of storage of personal property
such as household items being temporarily stored or relocated.
         b.   A roll-off box, bin, or construction dumpster used for the
collection and hauling of waste or debris; or
         c.   A fully-enclosed, non-motorized, trailer (commonly known as a
semi- trailer) with wheels intended to be towed to a site for the purpose of
storage or transport of goods, materials, or equipment.
      2.   Permit Required. A building permit shall not be required for a
portable storage container, but a temporary use permit issued in accordance
with Section
2.2.19, Temporary Use Permit, is required.
      3.   Exemptions. The standards in this section shall not apply to
portable storage containers used as temporary construction trailers, dumpsters,
or recycling facilities, provided construction on the site is on-going.
      4.   Maximum Size. Containers no larger in dimension than eight feet in
height, eight feet in width, or 20 feet in length.
      5.   Maximum Number.
         a.   No more than two portable storage containers shall be located on
a single lot or parcel of land.
         b.   No other type of container or shipping container is located on
the same lot or parcel of land.
      6.   Hazardous Substances. Portable storage containers shall not be used
to store or transport nonresidential materials and substances, including but
not limited to the following: solid waste, hazardous materials, explosives, and
unlawful substances and materials.
      7.   Location.
         a.   A portable storage container may be located in a driveway, a
designated parking area, or behind a dwelling.
         b.   A portable storage container shall be located at least five feet
from any principal or accessory structure.
         c.   If site conditions make placement of the portable storage
container behind a dwelling, on a driveway, or in a designated parking area
impossible, then the portable storage container may be located immediately
adjacent to the driveway or designated parking area.
         d.   A portable storage container shall not be located between the
front of a dwelling and the street it faces unless any other placement is
impossible due to site conditions.
         e.   In no instance shall a portable storage container be located
within a Town street, public street right-of-way, or in a location that poses a
threat to public health or safety.
      8.   Duration.
         a.   Portable storage containers may be located on a site for a
maximum of up to 90 days per calendar year.
         b.   In no instance shall these standards be construed to allow
placement of one or more portable storage containers on a single site for more
than 90 days in any single calendar year.
   D.   Special Events.
      1.   Exempt Events. A special event is not subject to the requirements in
Section
4.5, Temporary Uses, if:
         a.   The event lasts two or fewer days within a 180-day period on a
lot with an established principal use; or
         b.   The event is sponsored by the Town, a county, or the State.
      2.   Subject to this Ordinance. A special event not exempted from the
standards in this section if it is proposed on a lot in a commercial or mixed-
use zoning district, subject to the following standards:
         a.   A special event includes, but is not be limited to arts and
crafts shows, cultural events, musical events, concerts and stage shows,
celebrations, festivals, fairs, carnivals, circuses, or outdoor religious
events.
         b.   Circuses, carnivals and similar amusements may be subject to the
applicable provisions of the City Code of Ordinances.
         c.   Temporary dwelling(s) are allowed in association with the special
event provided they meet the general standards of Section
4.5.4.E, Temporary Dwelling, and are removed at the end of the event.
   E.   Temporary Dwelling. A temporary dwelling is permitted on a lot in a
residential, conditional, mixed-use, or conditional zoning district, subject to
the following standards:
      1.   General Standards.
         a.   A temporary dwelling may be either a dwelling that meets all
applicable North Carolina Building Code requirements for a dwelling or a
recreational vehicle.
         b.   The temporary dwelling shall be located on a lot and meet the
dimensional standards of the zoning district, to the maximum extent
practicable.
         c.   Temporary emergency dwellings operated by a religious
institution, governmental agency, or nonprofit organization may be located to
provide emergency shelter where fire, flood, or other natural disaster has
displaced persons.
      2.   Temporary Construction Dwelling.
         a.   One temporary dwelling may be used to house occupants of the
principal dwelling under construction or subject to repair or casualty damage.
         b.   Temporary dwellings may be used on a construction site and
occupied by persons having construction or security responsibilities over such
construction site.
         c.   Temporary dwellings shall be located on the same lot as the
structure under construction.
         d.   The temporary use permit shall not be issued until a site plan
approved or a building permit is issued for a principal structure.
         e.   A temporary dwelling shall be removed within 30 days of issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the structure, or removed immediately if the
building permit expires or is revoked.
      3.   Duration. A temporary dwelling shall be limited in duration to a
maximum of six months, except that the temporary use permit may be renewed for
good cause shown.
   F.   Temporary Real Estate Office. A temporary real estate office is
permitted on a lot in a residential, business, special, or conditional zoning
district, subject to the following standards:
      1.   The office is located on a lot that is part of the real estate
development being sold or leased.
      2.   Signage complies with the standards of Section
5.11, Signage.
      3.   The office complies with the dimensional standards of the zoning
district in which it is located.
      4.   The temporary office is converted into a dwelling or removed within
30 days after all units are sold or leased.
      5.   In the event a temporary real estate office is a trailer, it shall
be removed within 30 days after all units are sold or leased.
   G.   Temporary Wireless Telecommunications Facility. A temporary wireless
telecommunications facility shall comply with the standards in Section
4.3.4.S.4.e, Temporary Wireless Facility, and the following standards:
      1.   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed on a
lot after a disaster or other emergency for a period not to exceed 30 days,
except that the temporary use permit may be renewed for good cause shown.
      2.   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed on a
lot to evaluate the technical feasibility of a site for a period not to exceed
14 days, except that the temporary use permit may be renewed for good cause
shown.
      3.   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed on a
lot in association with an event where the anticipated demand cannot be handled
by existing facilities for a period not to exceed 14 days.
      4.   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed on a
lot with an existing permanent wireless telecommunications facility where the
permanent structure is undergoing reconstruction or maintenance and the
temporary facility is needed to maintain sufficient levels of service. The
temporary facility shall be removed after reconstruction or maintenance is
complete and service restored on the permanent structure.
      5.   All temporary wireless telecommunications facilities, including all
supporting cables and anchors, shall be contained on the lot.
   H.   Yard Sales. Yard sales are permitted on lot in a residential zoning
district subject to the following standards:
      1.   Yard sales shall be limited to four per year per lot.
      2.   There shall be a minimum of 30 days between yard sales on the same
lot or site.
      3.   Each sale shall be limited to daylight hours, and shall not exceed
two consecutive days.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-19; Ord. 2021-32, passed 9-1-20)
4.6   UNLISTED USES
4.6.1.   Procedure
   A.   The Planning Director shall determine whether or not an unlisted use is
similar to an existing use type set out in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, based on the definitions in Section
9.4, Definitions, and the standards for unlisted uses in Section
2.2.12, Interpretation.
   B.   Nothing shall limit the Planning Director from seeking input from Town
staff, Planning Board, or Board of Commissioners in making a determination of
how to categorize an unlisted use.
   C.   In cases where a proposed unlisted use type is not found to be similar
to an existing use type, the Planning Director may, but shall not be required
to, initiate a text amendment application to revise the text of this Ordinance
to add the use type in accordance with Section
2.2.20, UDO Text Amendment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.7   PROHIBITED USES
4.7.1.   Prohibited Everywhere
   A.   The following use types are not listed in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, and are prohibited throughout the Town's
planning jurisdiction in all zoning districts.
   B.   In cases where one or more of these uses is lawfully established and in
operation prior to January 1, 2020, the use shall be subject to the provisions
in Section
1.10, Transitional Provisions.
      1.   Agricultural Uses.
         a.   Concentrated animal feeding operations;
         b.   Slaughterhouses; or
         c.   Poultry processing facilities.
      2.   Commercial Uses.
         a.   Outdoor advertising or billboards, except where prohibition is
preempted by State or federal law. Outdoor advertising lawfully established
prior to January 1, 2020, may be permitted to continue as a nonconforming use
only in accordance with
Article 7: Nonconformities, and Sections 136-126 through 136-140.1 of the North
Carolina General Statutes; or
         b.   Outdoor shooting ranges.
      3.   Industrial Uses.
         a.   Acetylene gas manufacture;
         b.   Acid manufacture;
         c.   Ammonia, bleaching powder, or chlorine manufacture;
         d.   Brick, tile, or terra cotta manufacture;
         e.   Cellophane manufacture;
         f.   Creosote manufacture or treatment plants;
         g.   Distillation of bones, coal, refuse, tar, or wood;
         h.   Explosives, ammunition, fireworks, or gunpowder manufacture;
         i.   Fat rendering, or production of fats and oils from animal or
vegetable products by boiling or distillation;
         j.   Garbage, offal, or animal reduction and processing;
         k.   Glue and size manufacture;
         l.   Leather and leather products manufacturing involving tanning;
         m.   Linseed oil, shellac, turpentine manufacture or refining;
         n.   Nitrogenous tankage, fish meal or manufacture of any fertilizer
materials carrying an objectionable odor;
   o.   Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture;
         p.   Ore reduction;
         q.   Pulp mills; or
         r.   Vinegar manufacturing.
      4.   Institutional Uses.
         a.   Package treatment plant wastewater disposal systems that
discharge to surface waters; or
         b.   Storage or processing of radioactive or infectious waste.
      5.   Residential Uses.
         a.   Use of a boat houseboat, or other floating structure as a
temporary or permanent residence (this shall not prevent the overnight
occupancy of a vessel temporarily moored while in transit on navigable waters);
         b.   Mobile homes, mobile home parks, and manufactured dwelling parks;
or
         c.   Use of a travel trailer as a permanent or temporary residence.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
4.7.2.   Prohibited by Overlay District Standards
Regardless of how a use type is permitted or prohibited in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, if a lot or tract is located within one or
more overlay zoning districts, any use type limitations in the overlay district
standards (see Section
3.8, Overlay Zoning Districts) shall control.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 5 - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Article 5 - Development Standards
5: Development Standards
5.1.   Access and Circulation
5.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.1.2.   Applicability
5.1.3.   Exemptions
5.1.4.   Access to Lots
5.1.5.   Compliance with Requirements for Streets
5.1.6.   Driveways
5.1.7.   Sight Distance Triangles
5.1.8.   Parking Lot Connections
5.1.9.   On-Site Pedestrian Walkways
5.1.10.   Compliance with Requirements for Sidewalks
5.1.11.   Compliance with Requirements for Greenways
5.2.   Design Guidelines
5.2.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.2.2.   Applicability
5.2.3.   Statement of Consent
5.2.4.   Design Features
5.3.   Design Standards
5.3.1.   Commercial Design Standards
5.3.2.   Mixed-Use Design Standards
5.3.3.   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
5.4.   Exterior Lighting
5.4.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.4.2.   Applicability
5.4.3.   Exemptions
5.4.4.   Prohibited Lighting
5.4.5.   Lighting Plan
5.4.6.   Exterior Lighting Standards
5.4.7.   Maximum Illumination Levels
5.4.8.   Nonconforming Lighting
5.5.   Fences and Walls
5.5.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.5.2.   Applicability
5.5.3.   Exemptions
5.5.4.   Locational Standards
5.5.5.   Maximum Height
5.5.6.   Wind Loading
5.5.7.   Duration
5.5.8.   Permitted Materials
5.5.9.   Restricted Fence Materials
5.5.10.   Electric Fences
5.5.11.   Prohibited Fence Materials
5.5.12.   Materials for Temporary Fences
5.5.13.   Wall Material Standards
5.5.14.   Finished Side
5.5.15.   Maintenance
5.6.   Landscaping
5.6.1.   Section Organization
5.6.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.6.3.   Applicability
5.6.4.   Exemptions
5.6.5.   Landscape Plan Required
5.6.6.   Plant Material Specifications
5.6.7.   Landscaping Placement
5.6.8.   Features Allowed Within Required Landscaping Areas
5.6.9.   Parking Lot Landscaping
5.6.10.   Perimeter Buffers
5.6.11.   Foundation Plantings
5.6.12.   Streetscape Buffers
5.6.13.   Street Trees
5.6.14.   Planting Flexibility
5.6.15.   Time of Installation
5.6.16.   Required Maintenance
5.6.17.   Site Inspection
5.6.18.   Replacement of Required Vegetation
5.6.19.   Stormwater Control Measure (SCM) Landscaping
5.7.   Open Space
5.7.1.   How to Use These Standards
5.7.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.7.3.   Applicability
5.7.4.   Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Requirements
5.7.5.   Open Space Set-Aside Configuration
5.7.6.   Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides
5.7.7.   Maintenance of Open Space Set-Asides
5.8.   Parking and Loading
5.8.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.8.2.   Applicability
5.8.3.   Exemptions
5.8.4.   Off-Street Parking Requirements
5.8.5.   Parking Lot Configuration
5.8.6.   Accessible Parking Spaces
5.8.7.   Guest Parking Spaces
5.8.8.   Compact Parking Spaces
5.8.9.   Stacking Spaces
5.8.10.   Bicycle Parking
5.8.11.   Parking Alternatives
5.8.12.   Off-Street Loading
5.9.   Reforestation
5.9.1.   Purpose and Intent
5.9.2.   Applicability
5.9.3.   Exemptions
5.9.4.   Requirements
5.9.5.   Tree Protection Devices
5.9.6.   Credit Towards Other Ordinance Requirements
5.9.7.   Maintenance
5.10.   Screening
5.10.1.   Purpose and intent
5.10.2.   Using These Standards
5.10.3.   Applicability
5.10.4.   Exemptions
5.10.5.   General Requirements
5.10.6.   Views to Be Screened
5.11.   Signage
5.11.1.   Section Organization
5.11.2.   Purpose and Intent
5.11.3.   Applicability
5.11.4.   Exclusions
5.11.5.   Prohibited Sign Types
5.11.6.   General Standards Applicable to All Signs
5.11.7.   Removal of Dilapidated or Obsolete Signs
5.11.8.   Nonconforming Signage
5.11.9.   Sign Standards by Sign Type
5.12.   Sustainability incentives
5.12.1.   How to Use These Incentives
5.12.2.   Purpose and intent
5.12.3.   Applicability
5.12.4.   Type of Incentives
5.12.5.   Procedure
5.12.6.   Menu of Sustainable Development Practices
5.12.7.   Failure to Install or Maintain Sustainable Development Practices
5.1.   ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
5.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this section is to ensure the safe and efficient movement of
vehicles, bicyclists, pedestrians, and deliveries on development sites in the
Town's jurisdiction. More specifically, these standards are intended to:
   A.   Protect the health and safety of Town residents and visitors;
   B.   Ensure pedestrian accessibility is included in site planning;
   C.   Protect the safety of motorists, pedestrians, and bicyclists from
traffic entering or exiting the street system; and
   D.   Encourage alternative forms of transportation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.2.   Applicability.
   A.   General. Unless exempted in accordance with Section
5.1.3, Exemptions, or except where otherwise expressly stated, the standards in
this section apply to all new development in the Town's jurisdiction.
   B.   Existing Development. Compliance with these standards shall also apply
to redevelopment of an existing structure, building, or use when it is
expanded, enlarged, or otherwise increased in intensity in an amount equivalent
to or beyond 50 percent.
   C.   Conflict. In the event of conflict or overlap with the standards in
this section and the standards in
Article 6: Subdivisions, the standards in
Article 6 shall control.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.3.   Exemptions
The following forms of development are exempted from the standards in this
section:
   A.   Redevelopment consisting of one single-family detached home on its own
lot of record (though these standards shall be applied to residential
subdivisions proposing more than one lot); and
   B.   Redevelopment of an existing duplex.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021)
5.1.4.   Access to Lots
Except where authorized in accordance with Section
5.1.4.B, Alternative Access, all development shall comply with the following
standards:
   A.   General Requirements.
      1.   Every lot shall abut or have direct access, via a driveway, to a
publicly-maintained street.
      2.   No building or structure shall be constructed or placed on a lot
that does not abut or have direct access to a publicly-maintained street.
      3.   Access to residential lots shall meet the minimum requirements of
Section 4.3 Residential Use Types.
      4.   Direct access to a publicly-maintained street shall not extend
through or across land in a different zoning district than the lot being served
by the access (see
Figure 5.1,4.A: Lot Access). This requirement is waived when the land in the
different zoning district:
         a.   Is classified as a business or mixed-use district; or
         b.   Allows the use being served by the direct access; or
         c.   Provides the sole means of access for the use.
Figure 5.1.4.A: Lot Access
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-200.jpg]
   B.   Alternative Access. As an alternative to compliance with the general
standards in subsection (A) above, development may incorporate one of the
following alternative street access standards (see
Figure 5.1,4.B: Alternative Lot Access):
      1.   Multiple Lot Development. Up to a maximum of three individual lots
in a multiple lot development may have shared rights of access along a single
driveway that is at least 20 feet in width and leads to a publicly-maintained
street.
      2.   Single-Family Lot of Record. Vacant lots of record established prior
to January 1, 2020, that do not abut a publicly-maintained street may establish
access through a recorded access easement, provided the lot is used for one
single-family detached dwelling and its allowable accessory uses, and provided
the easement complies with the following:
         a.   The minimum easement width is 20 feet;
         b.   The minimum separation between the easement and any other platted
access or right-of-way is at least 150 feet;
         c.   The location of the easement is recorded on a plat; and
         d.   The easement permits ingress, egress, regress, and necessary
utilities to serve the lot.
Figure 5.1.4.B: Alternative Lot Access
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-202.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021)
5.1.5.   Compliance with Requirements for Streets
Development subject to the standards in this section that includes construction
activity affecting streets or street rights-of-way shall also comply with the
standards in Section
6.10, Streets.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.6.   Driveways
The standards in this section apply to all driveways in the Town's
jurisdiction, except where specifically exempted by the text of this Ordinance.
Lawfully-established driveways existing prior January 1, 2020, that do not
conform to these standards shall be subject to the standards in
Article 7: Nonconformities.
   A.   Purpose for These Standards. These driveway standards are intended to:
      1.   Ensure safe vehicular movements in the Town's jurisdiction;
      2.   Configure lot access in accordance with the Town's adopted policy
guidance for roadway corridors;
      3.   Minimize conflicts between pedestrians, bicyclists, and vehicles;
      4.   Provide as much physical separation between street intersections and
driveways serving individual land uses as is practicable;
      5.   Minimize individual access points to collector and arterial streets
to the minimum necessary; and
      6.   Encourage shared access to individual lots.
   B.   Compliance with NCDOT Standards.
      1.   Driveways providing ingress or egress to a State-maintained street
shall be placed and constructed in accordance with the "Policy on Street and
Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways" adopted by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT), as amended.
      2.   All driveways connecting to State-maintained streets shall obtain
driveway permit approval from NCDOT prior to the construction.
   C.   Compliance with Town Standards.
      1.   Driveways providing ingress or egress to a Town-maintained street
shall be placed and constructed in accordance with the applicable Town
standards.
      2.   All driveways connecting to Town-maintained streets shall obtain
driveway permit approval from the Town prior to construction.
   D.   Driveway Configuration.
      1.   All driveways shall be constructed so that:
         a.   Vehicles can enter and exit from a lot without posing any
substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians, bicycles, or vehicles traveling
on abutting streets; and
         b.   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic on
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized.
      2.   Driveway radii shall be designed in accordance with the Town
specifications, and shall not extend beyond side lot lines.
      3.   No driveway serving an off-street parking area or providing on-site
circulation is permitted within any required landscaping area, but driveways
may be installed across these areas.
      4.   Driveways shall be as nearly perpendicular to the street right-of-
way as possible (see
Figure 5.1.6.D: Driveway Configuration).
      5.   Driveways shall line up with other driveways across the street,
where practicable.
      6.   Driveways on corner lots shall provide access from the street with
less traffic, to the maximum extent practicable.
Figure 5.1.6.D: Driveway Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-204.jpg]
   E.   Minimum Driveway Width and Depth.
      1.   Driveways shall be configured to extend into the lot they serve for
a minimum distance in accordance with
Table 5.1.6.E: Minimum Driveway Width and Depth.
TABLE 5.1.6.E: MINIMUM DRIVEWAY WIDTH AND DEPTH
Use Type Minimum Driveway Width (Feet) [1]  Minimum Driveway Depth (Feet) [3]
         [2]
TABLE 5.1.6.E: MINIMUM DRIVEWAY WIDTH AND DEPTH
Use Type                   Minimum Driveway Width   Minimum Driveway Depth
                           (Feet) [1] [2]           (Feet) [3]
Single-family detached and 10 [4]                   25
duplex development
Triplex and quadraplex     12
development                                         Driveways serving
                                                    individual units: 25
Single-family attached and One-way: 12              Driveways serving parking
multi-family development   Two-way: 18 [5]          lots: [6]

Mixed-use development      One-way: 12 Two-way: 24
Nonresidential development [5]                      [6]

NOTES:
[1] Drive aisles shall comply with the standards in Section
9.3.11.F, Parking Space and Access Aisle Dimensions.
[2] A wider driveway shall be provided when required by the Town's adopted
Fire Code.
[3] Measured from the edge of the right-of-way serving the driveway. In cases
where the driveway is located within an access easement that crosses another
lot, minimum driveway depth is measured from the edge of the lot line where
the driveway is located.
[4] Minimum width only applied to the area where minimum driveway depth
standards are applied.
[5] Travel lane widths on two-way driveways may differ when required by Town
staff.
[6] See Section
5.1.6.FMinimum Parking Lot Stem Length.
 
      2.   The width of any driveway accessing a public street shall not exceed
36 feet at its intersection with the right-of-way, except as required by the
NCDOT, the Town of Zebulon, or in an approved transportation impact analysis
(see Section
6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis).
   F.   Minimum Parking Lot Stem Length.
      1.   Driveways serving off-street parking lots shall comply with the
standards for minimum stem length in
Table 5.1.6.F: Parking Lot Stem Length.
      2.   In no instance shall a parking lot be configured to allow access to
an individual off-street parking space, drive aisle, or other vehicular
accessway at a point closer to the street right-of-way than the minimum parking
stem length (see
Figure 5.1.6.F: Parking Lot Stem Length).
      3.   In cases where a development is subject to a transportation impact
analysis, the parking lot stem length specified in the transportation impact
analysis shall control.
      4.   Nothing shall limit a parking lot stem with a longer length than
specified in this subsection.
TABLE 5.1.6.F: PARKING LOT STEM LENGTH
Number of Provided Off-Street Parking Minimum Parking Lot Stem Length (Feet)
Spaces in Parking Lot                 [1][2]
TABLE 5.1.6.F: PARKING LOT STEM LENGTH
Number of Provided Off-Street Parking Minimum Parking Lot Stem Length (Feet)
Spaces in Parking Lot                 [1][2]
10 or less                            25
11 to 51                              50
51 to 100                             75
101 to 200                            100
201 to 250                            150
251 or more                           As determined by the TRC
NOTES:
[1] Measured from the edge of the right-of-way serving the parking lot stem.
[2] The TRC may allow a reduced parking lot stem length based on site
conditions, provided public safety can be maintained.
 
Figure 5.1.6.F: Parking Lot Stem Length
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-206.jpg]
   G.   Required Driveway Spacing.
      1.   Spacing from Streets.
         a.   No portion of any driveway leading from a street shall be closer
than 100 feet to the corner of any adjacent street intersection measured from
the edge of the right-of-way.
         b.   On lots with less than 100 feet of lot width, the driveway shall
be located as far as practicable from the adjacent street intersection.
      2.   Spacing from Other Driveways.
         a.   Certain Residential Uses.
         i.   Except when configured as paired driveways, driveways serving
individual single-family detached dwellings, individual single-family attached
dwellings, duplex, triplex, or quadriplex buildings shall be located at least
20 linear feet from any other driveway on the same or different lot.
         ii.   For the purposes of this section, paired driveways are up to two
driveways, whether on the same or different lots, where one side of a driveway
is within five feet of the side of the other driveway.
         b.   All Other Uses. No two driveway access points, whether on the
same or different lots, shall be located within 50 feet of each other, to the
maximum extent practicable.
   H.   Driveway Surfacing. New driveways established after January 1, 2020,
that abut a paved street shall be surfaced with asphalt, pavers, or six inches
of concrete. Single- family detached dwellings and duplex dwellings on lots of
21,780 square feet or more may be served by a gravel driveway.
   I.   Driveways on Collector Streets Prohibited. Driveways on Town-maintained
collector and arterial streets are prohibited.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.7.   Sight Distance Triangles
   A.   Sight Distance Triangles Established. Corner lots and lots with
driveways, alleys, or other methods of ingress/egress to a street shall include
sight distance triangles to ensure visibility for drivers and pedestrians
moving through or in an intersection. Required sight distance triangles shall
be configured in accordance with
Table 5.1.7.A: Sight Distance Triangle Requirements. Land within a required
sight distance triangle shall comply with the standards in Section
5.1.7.C, Limitations on Obstructions within Required Sight Distance Triangles.
 
TABLE 5.1.7.A: SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE REQUIREMENTS
                                                 Minimum Sight Distance
Type of Street, Intersection, or Driveway        Triangle Configuration
                                                 Required [1] [2]
Intersections of streets [3]                     10/70
Driveways serving parking lots                   10/70
Driveways serving    Single-family detached,
individual land uses single-family attached,     None
without parking lots Duplex, Triplex, Quadriplex
                     All other uses of land      10/70, wherever possible
NOTES:
[1] The NCDOT may require an alternative sight distance triangle
configuration.
[2] AASHTO requirements shall be applied to curved or curvilinear
streets.
[3] Includes all streets (State-maintained and Town-maintained).
 
   B.   Measurement of Sight Distance Triangle. Sight distance triangles shall
be an area between a point at the edge of a street right-of-way located 70
linear feet from the intersection and a second point at the edge of the
opposing street right-of-way located ten feet from the intersection (see
Figure 5.1.7.B: Sight Distance Triangles).
   C.   Limitations on Obstructions Within Required Sight Distance Triangles.
      1.   No planting, structure, fence, wall, slope, embankment, parked
vehicle, or other obstruction to vision between the heights of two-and-one-half
(2 ½) feet and ten feet above the centerline grades of intersecting streets or
accessways may be located within a required sight distance triangle.
      2.   No structure or object, regardless of its size, which obstructs
visibility within a required sight distance triangle to the detriment of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be permitted.
Figure 5.1.7.B: Sight Distance Triangles
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-208.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.8.   Parking Lot Connections
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The intent of this section is to provide for
parking lot connections between comparable commercial, mixed-use, and multi-
family land uses that front arterial and collector streets so that vehicles
leaving one lot may access the adjoining lot without having to re-enter the
street system.
   B.   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to lots
abutting arterial and collector streets that contain any of the following uses:
      1.   Uses in the commercial uses classification in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table;
      2.   Mixed-use development; and
      3.   Multi-family development.
   C.   Exemptions. Parking lot connections are not required when any of the
following conditions are present:
      1.   Adjacent lots do not have common frontage along an arterial or
collector street;
      2.   Significant topographical differences in existing or proposed
conditions are present;
      3.   Significant natural features exist in the only viable location for
parking lot connections;
      4.   Vehicular safety factors exist or would be created including, but
not limited to, unsafe turning movements or pedestrian conflicts;
      5.   Sufficient access already exists without need for additional parking
lot connections;
      6.   Residential, institutional, or other incompatible land uses are
present on adjacent lots;
      7.   Existing infrastructure obstructions; or
      8.   Other safety or security factors, in the opinion of the Planning
Director or Town Engineer.
   D.   Configuration.
      1.   Parking lot connections shall join parking lots on two or more
different lots (see
Figure 5.1.8: Parking Lot Connections) subject to these standards.
      2.   A parking lot connection shall be included on at least two sides of
a lot except when conditions prevent connections in accordance with Section
5.1.8.C, Exemptions.
      3.   Parking lot connections shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or
pavers and shall maintain a minimum width of 12 feet for one-way traffic and 18
feet for two-way traffic.
      4.   All parking lot connections shall be built to the lot line, to the
maximum extent practicable.
      5.   A minimum distance of 40 feet shall be required between a parking
lot connection and an intersection or driveway entrance.
   E.   Impact on Required Site Features.
      1.   Where a required parking lot connection eliminates a required
landscape planting area, the landscaping requirements shall be reduced to
accommodate the cross-accessway and replacement landscaping shall not be
required.
      2.   When a required parking lot connection eliminates required off-
street parking spaces, replacement spaces shall not be required.
   F.   Easement Required. A parking lot connection easement shall be recorded
on the final plat for property involving a subdivision, or recorded by separate
instrument when, no plat is proposed.
   G.   Connection Required. Development on vacant land subject to these
standards shall install parking lot connections to the shared property line.
However, if the abutting landowner that does not already have a parking lot
connection stub and is unwilling to allow the connection to be built to the
shared property line due to the impact of the grading equipment or other
construction activity on their property, then the Planning Director shall
notify the unwilling property owner that they will be responsible for
completing the entire parking lot connection when their property is developed.
Figure 5.1.8: Parking Lot Connections
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-210.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.9.   On-Site Pedestrian Walkways
On-site pedestrian walkways that minimize conflict between pedestrians and
vehicles shall be provided on all non-residential, mixed-use, and multi-family
development sites, and shall be configured in accordance with the following
standards.
   A.   On-site pedestrian walkways shall connect building entrances to off-
street parking areas and to other building entrances on the same site (see
Figure 5.1.9: Pedestrian Walkways).
   B.   Development subject to these standards shall provide at least one
connection to an existing or planned public sidewalk or existing greenway via
an on-site pedestrian walkway configured in accordance with these standards.
   C.   Connections shall be made to all existing or planned adjacent transit
facilities, to the maximum extent practicable.
   D.   On-site pedestrian walkways shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or
other all-weather material, and shall be of contrasting color or materials when
crossing drive aisles.
   E.   On-site pedestrian walkways shall be positively drained and configured
to avoid areas of pooling water.
   F.   On-site pedestrian walkways shall be in compliance with applicable
State and federal requirements, including ADA requirements.
   G.   Development with 200 or more off-street parking spaces shall provide
fully-separated, improved on-site pedestrian walkways within planted landscape
islands located a minimum of every six parking rows. On-site pedestrian
walkways shall be aligned perpendicular to the buildings served and terminate
at building entrances, to the maximum extent practicable.
Figure 5.1.9: Pedestrian Walkways
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-212.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.10.   Compliance with Requirements for Sidewalks
Development subject to the standards in this section shall comply with all
applicable standards in Section
6.8, Sidewalks.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.1.11.   Compliance with Requirements for Greenways
Development on lots identified in the Town's adopted policy guidance as subject
to the requirements for greenways shall comply with all applicable standards in
Section
6.4, Greenways.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.2.   DESIGN GUIDELINES
5.2.1.   Purpose and Intent
These residential design guidelines are proposed as suggestions for ways to
ensure that new single-family detached, duplex, triplex, and quadraplex housing
is high quality, aesthetically pleasing, and provides a wide variety of living
options for Town residents. More specifically, these guidelines are intended
to:
   A.   Ensure single-family detached, duplex, triplex, and quadraplex homes
maintain consistent exterior materials and architectural treatments on the
front and sides of buildings;
   B.   Establish guidance regarding changes of exterior finishes and materials
on individual facades;
   C.   Avoid garage-dominated street fronts in residential neighborhoods;
   D.   Encourage duplex, triplex, and quadraplex structures to appear as
single-family homes; and
   E.   Ensure an adequate level of variability in single-family home design so
as to avoid monotonous streetscapes where every dwelling appears identical or
very similar to its neighboring dwellings.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
5.2.2.   Applicability
   A.   Single-family detached, single-family attached, duplex, triplex, and
quadraplex dwellings shall comply with these guidelines in the following
instances:
      1.   When proposed development is subject to a signed statement of
consent in accordance with Section 5.2.3, Statement of Consent; and
      2.   When compliance with these guidelines is included as a condition of
approval associated with a conditional rezoning (see Section 2.2.6, Conditional
Rezoning).
   B.   Single-family detached, attached, duplex, triplex, and quadraplex
dwellings not subject to a statement of consent are not required to comply with
these guidelines, though conformance is strongly encouraged.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
5.2.3.   Statement of Consent
   A.   Compliance with the design guidelines in this section is voluntary and
at the discretion of the applicant. In cases where an applicant chooses to
comply with the guidelines in this section, the applicant shall sign the
following statement of consent and include it with the application for a
preliminary plat, special use permit, site plan, or building permit, as
appropriate.
The single-family detached, attached, duplex, triplex, and quadraplex dwellings
depicted on the attached site plan, subdivision plat, or other development
approval is subject to the Town of Zebulon's Single-Family Residential Design
Guidelines in place at the time the application for this development was
determined to be complete. I hereby voluntarily consent to the application of
these design guidelines, this acceptance of which shall run with the land
regardless of changes in ownership, and recognize that failure to comply with
the applicable guidelines following approval is a violation of the Unified
Development Ordinance.
                                                                                                     
Landowner Signature Date
   B.   The signed statement of consent and the development approval shall be
recorded in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds prior to issuance
of a building permit.
   C.   Applicants seeking to establish single-family attached development may
consent to complying with the multi-family design standard as an alternative to
these provisions.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. No. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
5.2.4.   Design Features
   A.   Side and Rear Facades.
      1.   Although the front facade of a principal building is expected to be
the primary focal point in terms of architectural character and features, all
sides of a building shall incorporate architectural detailing and windows that
complement the front facade and provide visual interest.
      2.   Blank walls void of windows or architectural detailing are
prohibited when adjacent to a street.
   B.   Foundation Materials.
      1.   Poured concrete foundations, concrete block foundations, or smooth-
faced concrete masonry unit foundations shall be covered by decks, porches, or
be clad in face brick, stone, stucco, or some other masonry material accurately
imitating these materials. In no instance shall poured concrete, concrete
block, or smooth-faced concrete masonry unit foundations be visible on a front
or street-facing facade.
      2.   In cases where a dwelling includes a finished or unfinished
basement, the exterior basement walls on the rear or on sides not visible from
streets are exempted from these standards.
   C.   Material Changes.
      1.   Exterior materials on the front facade shall not change at outside
corners, but shall continue along side facades for a minimum distance of at
least five feet. Wherever possible, materials shall continue to a logical
termination point such as a change in roof line or where a separate wing meets
the main body of the dwelling (see
Figure 5.2.4.C: Exterior Material Changes).
      2.   Exterior material changes shall take place along a horizontal line
where two forms meet, such as the wall and the foundation, the first and second
stories, or the wall and roof. It is acceptable for material changes to be
configured as
architectural accents in areas around windows, doors, cornices, at corners, or
in a repeating pattern across a facade.
      3.   Where two or more exterior materials meet or are combined, the
heavier or more massive material shall be located below the lighter element(s).
For example, brick below wood siding, stone below brick, wood siding below
stucco, etc.
      4.   It is acceptable for heavier materials to be used as accents around
doors, windows, and corners.
Figure 5.2.4.C: Exterior Material Changes
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-214.jpg]
   D.   Prohibited Materials.
      1.   The use of corrugated metal siding, unpainted plywood, or smooth-
face concrete block is prohibited.
      2.   Synthetic stucco or EIFS shall be prohibited within two feet of the
finished grade.
      3.   Vinyl siding is prohibited as an exterior material though vinyl
trim, windows, and soffit are acceptable.
   E.   Street-Facing Garages.
      1.   Maximum Door Width. Street-facing garage doors configured in
accordance with these guidelines shall not exceed a maximum width of 18 feet
per garage door.
      2.   Location. The placement of the primary entrance closer to the street
than a street-facing garage door is strongly encouraged, but in no instance
shall a primary entrance be more than nine feet farther from the street than a
street-facing garage door.
      3.   Design Features. Street-facing garages configured in accordance with
these guidelines shall incorporate at least three of the following design
features on the building wall containing the garage doors (see
Figure 5.2.4.E.3: Garage Door Design Features):
         a.   Each garage door shall include transparent or opaque windows;
         b.   Garage doors shall incorporate decorative hinges or hardware that
may be functional or aesthetic;
         c.   Garage doors shall include an overhang, eave, trellis, arbor,
awning, or other similar architectural feature that projects at least 16 inches
beyond the facade directly above the garage door(s);
         d.   Garage doors shall be flanked on either side by vertical design
elements like columns, pilasters, posts, or similar vertical feature; or
         e.   The garage door(s) are located at least two or more feet behind a
front porch or the primary entrance to the dwelling.
Figure 5.2.4.E.3: Garage Door Design Features
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-216.jpg]
   F.   Side-Loaded Garages. Side-loaded garages configured in accordance with
these guidelines may be closer to the street than the primary entrance to the
dwelling, provided the garage facade facing the street includes compatible
design features found on other building facades, including but not limited to:
      1.   Windows;
      2.   Eaves;
      3.   Overhangs;
      4.   Decorative trim;
      5.   Material changes; or
      6.   Other architectural features included for the sake of compatibility
with the building's other facades.
   G.   Duplex Entrances.
      1.   A duplex structure shall be organized so as to give the appearance
of being a large single-family detached home.
      2.   A single shared main entry door is strongly encouraged.
      3.   In no instance shall two entry doors be located on the same side of
the house.
   H.   Architectural Variability.
      1.   A continuous row of identical buildings along a block shall be
prohibited. Each building shall include "distinctly different" front facade
elevations within any single phase of the development such that:
         a.   No three structures that are side-by-side may have the same front
facade elevation; and
         b.   No structures directly across the street from one another shall
have the same front facade elevation (see
Figure 5.2.4.H.1: Distinctly Different).
Figure 5.2.4.H.1: Distinctly Different
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-218.jpg]
      2.   For the purposes of this section, "distinctly different" shall mean
that a dwelling must differ from other adjacent and opposing dwellings in at
least six of the following ways (see
Figure 5.2.4.H.2: Distinction Options):
         a.   A discernable color variation, not a slight variation of a
similar hue, such as beige or pastel;
         b.   Variation in exterior materials;
         c.   Use of two or more distinct variations in roof forms (e.g. gable,
hip, shed, mansard, gambrel, flat, or other);
         d.   Variations in the number of building stories of at least one
story;
         e.   Variation in the amount of habitable space by 400 square feet or
more;
         f.   A change in the depth of the setback from the street which gives
the dwelling its street address by 15 feet or more;
         g.   Changes in the type and color of roofing material on structures
with pitched roofs;
         h.   The orientation of the longest building axis to the street the
dwelling faces, whether parallel, perpendicular, or at an angle; or
         i.   The orientation of primary roof ridgeline to the street the
dwelling faces, whether parallel, perpendicular, or at an angle.
Figure 5.2.4.H.2: Distinction Options
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-220.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.3. DESIGN STANDARDS
5.3.1.   Commercial Design Standards
   A.   Purpose and Intent. These commercial design standards supplement the
applicable zoning district and use-specific standards of this Ordinance by
providing minimum requirements for design and configuration of commercial
development within the Town's planning jurisdiction. They are proposed to
provide clarity on the Town's expectations for the quality and appearance of
new commercial development. More specifically, the purposes of these standards
are to:
      1.   Foster high-quality, attractive commercial development consistent
with Town's adopted policy guidance;
      2.   Assure a fair and consistent application of the commercial design
standards to new development and redevelopment;
      3.   Foster creativity in commercial design and greater compatibility
between commercial development and its local surroundings; and
      4.   Promote property values and protect existing public and private
investment.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   These commercial design standards shall apply to new construction of
any principal structures from all use types listed in the Commercial and
Institutional Use Classification section of
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table.
   C.   Exemptions. The standards in this section shall not apply to the
following forms of development:
      1.   Mixed-uses, which shall instead comply with the standards in Section
5.3.2, Mixed-Use Design Standards;
      2.   Development located within the LHO district;
      3.   Industrial use types identified in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table;
      4.   Conversion of an existing noncommercial structure to a commercial
use where no additional floor area is being added; and
      5.   Routine maintenance and repairs to existing commercial buildings.
   D.   Timing of Review. Review for compliance with these standards shall take
place during review of an associated rezoning, site plan, or special use
permit, as appropriate.
   E.   Building Walls Distinguished.
      1.   Exterior building walls on principal buildings subject to these
standards shall be distinguished as primary, secondary, and tertiary in
accordance with the following standards (see
Figure 5.3.1.E: Commercial Building Walls Distinguished):
         a.   Primary walls are the architectural front facade of the building
that faces the street from which the building is addressed.
         b.   Secondary building walls are exterior building walls that
correspond to the side or rear of a building that are visible from public
recreation lands or streets other than the street that the building is
addressed from.
         c.   Tertiary walls are all other exterior building walls.
      2.   Different standards apply to building walls based on their
designation as a primary, secondary, or tertiary building wall.
      3.   In cases where site conditions result in a situation where a
building wall could be designated as either a primary or secondary wall by the
Planning Director, the wall shall be treated as a primary wall. Nothing in
these standards shall limit the number of primary walls on any particular
building.
      4.   In cases where site conditions result in a situation where a
building wall could be designated as either a secondary or tertiary wall by the
Planning Director, the wall shall be treated as a secondary wall.
Figure 5.3.1.E: Commercial Building Walls Distinguished
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-222.jpg]
   F.   Design Requirements. Development subject to these standards shall be
designed in accordance with the following:
      1.   Street Network.
         a.   On sites including new streets, an interconnected network of
streets shall be provided, to the maximum extent practicable, and streets shall
connect to adjacent existing streets outside of the development.
         b.   Circulation patterns for drive-through facilities shall be
designed to accommodate the stacking of vehicles without interfering with the
movement of vehicles or pedestrians.
         c.   Development shall comply with all applicable provisions in
Section
5.1, Access and Circulation.
      2.   Customer Entrances.
         a.   Building entrances shall be designated as a primary or a
secondary entrance by the applicant, but each principal building shall have at
least one primary entrance. Nothing shall limit a building from having multiple
primary entrances.
         b.   Primary building entrances shall be visually prominent and shall
include at least three of the following features (see
Figure 5.3.1.F.2.b: Primary Building Entrances):
            i.   Changes in building material or color;
            ii.   Changes in paving or walking surface materials;
            iii.   A significant architectural feature that extends above the
primary roof height;
            iv.   A projection or recess of at least five feet beyond the
adjacent wall plane;
            v.   Outdoor pedestrian gathering or seating areas capable of
serving at least five people at the same time;
            vi.   A canopy, awning, portico, archway, arcade, or other covering
that extends outwards from the building wall by at least five feet;
            vii.   Glazing that extends upwards for at least 75 percent of the
building's height proximate to the entrance door(s);
            viii.   Architectural detailing around the entryway such as
tilework, entablature, or integrated moldings; or
            ix.   Fountains, artwork, or landscaping plantings in raised
planters immediately adjacent to the entrance door(s).
Figure 5.3.1.F.2.B: Primary Building Entrances
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-224.jpg]
      3.   Building Address Numbers.
         a.   Every principal building subject to these standards shall include
the building's street address above or adjacent to the primary building
entrance in accordance with applicable requirements in the Town Code of
Ordinances.
         b.   Address numbers shall be provided in numeric form rather than
spelled out, and shall be provided in an easily discernable typeface.
      4.   Building Articulation. Building walls subject to these standards
shall include articulation features in accordance with the following standards
(see
Figure 5.3.1.F.4: Commercial Building Articulation).
         a.   Number of Articulation Types Required. The minimum number of
articulation features to be provided on any single building wall depends upon
whether the wall is a primary, secondary, or a tertiary wall.
            i.   Primary Building Walls. Primary building walls shall be
configured to provide at least two types of building articulation listed in
Section
5.3.1.F.4.b, Types of Building Articulation.
            ii.   Secondary Building Walls. Secondary building walls shall
provide at least one of the building articulation types identified in Section
5.3.1.F.4.b, Types of Building Articulation.
            iii.   Tertiary Building Walls. Tertiary building walls shall not
be required to provide any building articulation features.
         b.   Types of Building Articulation. Each of the following seven
features shall qualify as one type of building articulation for the purposes of
Section
5.3.1.F.4.a, Number of Articulation Types Required:
            i.   Horizontal Facade Modulation.
               1.   Horizontal facade modulation is the projection or recesses
of building floor area either forward of primary wall plane or inwards from the
primary wall plane.
               2.   Each individual projection or recess shall have a minimum
depth of ten feet either beyond or inwards from the primary wall plane.
               3.   Each individual projection or recess shall have a minimum
span of at least to 20 percent of the facade's total length.
               4.   At least 40 percent of the facade's total length shall be
occupied by a projection or recess.
               5.   Individual projections or recesses along a wall shall be
separated from one another by at least two linear feet.
               6.   In the case of multi-story buildings, horizontal facade
modulation shall be required only on the first floor for two-story buildings
and on the first and second floors for three- or more-story buildings.
            ii.   Vertical Facade Modulation. Vertical facade modulation
consists of architectural building elements such as columns, pilasters, posts,
bays, fins, ribs, moldings, pediments, arcades, or similar features that extend
outwards or recess inwards from the primary wall plan for a minimum distance of
two feet. Vertical facade modulation shall extend from the grade to the top of
the facade and shall maintain regular spacing across at least 50 percent of the
facade.
            iii.   Bow or Curvilinear Feature.
               1.   Inclusion of a convex or concave bow or other curvilinear
wall feature with a minimum depth or projection of at least ten feet relative
to the primary facade plane.
               2.   Bows or curvilinear features shall occupy at least 50
percent of the total facade length.
               3.   In the case of multi-story buildings, a bow or curvilinear
feature shall be required only on the first floor for two-story buildings and
on the first and second floors for three- or more-story buildings.
            iv.   Green Wall. Wall-mounted panels affixed to an exterior
building wall configured in accordance with the following:
               1.   Each panel shall include living plants in a growing medium
spaced so that no portion of the growing medium or the exterior wall beneath
the panel is visible from a distance of five feet;
               2.   Panels shall be self-watering and comprised of cold-hardy
plants acclimatized to central North Carolina;
               3.   Invasive plants are prohibited;
               4.   Panels shall be configured so that at least 40 percent of
the exterior facade is beneath a panel; and
               5.   Plants shall be maintained and replaced as needed to ensure
compliance with subsection (1) above.
            v.   Roof Modulation. Inclusion of differing roof planes, roof
pitches, roof forms, roof heights, or roof materials that are visually distinct
from one another.
            vi.   Primary Building Entrance. Inclusion of a primary building
entrance configured in accordance with Section
5.3.1.F.2. Customer Entrances.
            vii.   Outdoor Seating. Inclusion of an outdoor seating or outdoor
dining area adjacent to the facade with all the following features:
               1.   A direct means of entry into the building;
               2.   Seating capable of accommodating at least five people at
the same time;
               3.   Protection from automobiles and bicycles circulating on the
site or on an adjacent street;
               4.   Exterior lighting, if the establishment is open before
sunrise or after dark;
               5.   Shading from the sun or rain; and
               6.   Wifi access, if wifi is provided to members of the public
indoors.
Figure 5.3.1.F.4: Commercial Building Articulation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-226.jpg]
      5.   Materials and Colors.
         a.   Material Configuration.
            i.   Where two or more materials are proposed on a building facade,
the heavier or more massive material (like stone) shall be located below the
lighter or less massive material (stucco).
            ii.   Heavier details may be permitted as details on corners or
around doors and windows.
            iii.   Material changes shall take place at locations such as the
intersection of building wings, the intersection of differing storefronts or
leaseholds, interior corners, or other logical locations.
            iv.   Material changes shall not take place at outside corners and
material returns shall be included to a logical termination point past an
exterior building corner such as a bump-out, building wing, or change in wall
direction (see
Figure 5.3.1.F.5: Commercial Building Materials).
Figure 5.3.1.F.5: Commercial Building Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-228.jpg]
         b.   Prohibited Materials. The following materials shall be prohibited
on any primary or secondary building facade walls:
            i.   Untextured tilt-up concrete panels;
            ii.   Pre-fabricated steel panels;
            iii.   Corrugated sheet metal;
            iv.   Smooth-face concrete blocks;
            v.   Vinyl siding, soffit, or fascia;
            vi.   Synthetic stucco within two feet of the grade;
            vii.   Asphalt shingles or siding; or
            viii.   Mirrored glass.
         c.   Color.
            i.   Primary Colors. Overly bright neon, or "day-glow" colors shall
not be used as primary exterior building colors. Nothing shall limit pastel or
traditional community material colors.
            ii.   Accent Colors. Building trim and accent areas may feature
brighter colors, including primary colors, but these colors may not comprise
more than 15 percent of any building facade.
      6.   Roof Form.
         a.   Roof pitches less than 3:12 and flat roofs shall require a
parapet wall on all sides visible from the street. Parapet walls shall fully
screen all roof-fop mechanical equipment from the street in accordance with
Section
5.10, Screening.
         b.   Parapet walls shall have decorative cornices or caps.
         c.   A pitched roof shall have eaves that extend a minimum of 12
inches beyond the building face.
         d.   Gable roofs shall incorporate roof rakes that project outwards a
minimum of six inches from the building face.
      7.   Fenestration. Building walls shall incorporate fenestration features
in accordance with the following standards (see
Figure 5.3.1.F.7: Commercial Building Fenestrations:
         a.   Primary Building Walls. Primary building walls shall be
configured so that:
            i.   At least 40 percent of the first floor portion of the primary
wail is occupied by visually transparent windows or doors;
            ii.   At least 30 percent of a second floor portion of the primary
wall (if provided) is occupied by visually transparent windows or doors;
            iii.   A window or functional general access doorway is located at
least every 20 feet along the facade; and
            iv.   No more than 50 percent of any single window or door is
obstructed by a window sign or other opaque display.
         b.   Secondary Building Walls. Secondary building walls shall be
configured so that at least 30 percent of the ground floor facade and at least
20 percent of any second floor facade is occupied by:
            i.   Visually transparent windows or doors with regular spacing;
               ii.   False or opaque windows with regular spacing;
         iii.   Articulated wall forms designed to mimic window openings that
also include an overhang or awning.
Figure 5.3.1.F.7: Commercial Building Fenestration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-230.jpg]
      8.   Awnings.
         a.   No awning shall extend outwards from the building wall more than
the width of the sidewalk or ten feet, whichever is less.
         b.   Awnings must be self-supporting from the building wall.
         c.   No supports shall rest on or interfere with the use of pedestrian
walkways or streets.
         d.   In no case shall any awning extend beyond the street curb or
interfere with street trees or public utilities.
      9.   Outparcels. Development on outparcels or pad sites associated with a
commercial development shall comply with the following requirements (see
Figure 5.3.1.F.9: Outparcel Development):
         a.   Buildings on outparcels or pad sites shall incorporate materials
that are similar to and compatible with those used on the primary buildings in
the development. Corporate or prototypical architecture shall be reconfigured
as necessary in order to comply with this standard.
         b.   Building walls associated with development on an outparcel or pad
site shall be configured solely in accordance with the articulation and
fenestration provisions for primary or secondary walls, as appropriate for the
main buildings in the development.
         c.   Spaces between buildings on outparcels or pad sites shall include
pedestrian amenities such as plazas, seating areas, and gathering places in
addition to off-street parking spaces.
         d.   Outparcel buildings on lots at street corners shall be located
and configured to define the corner through a combination of:
         i.   Locating the building as close to the rights-of-way as is
practicable;
         ii.   Limiting surface parking between the building and the streets;
         iii.   Providing a public gathering space adjacent to the corner; and
         iv.   Distinctive roof form or other pedestrian features such as
porches, canopies, or arcades.
Figure 5.3.1.F.9: Outparcel Development
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-232.jpg]
      10.   Multi-Building Development. Development composed of multiple
buildings totaling 30,000 gross square feet or more shall be configured in one
or more of the following ways (see
Figure 5.3.1.F.10: Multi-Building Development):
         a.   Break up the site into a series of smaller "blocks" defined by
on-site streets, pedestrian walkways, or other circulation routes;
         b.   Locate the buildings around the corner of an adjacent street
intersection or entry point to the development;
         c.   Enclose parking areas, public spaces, or other site amenities on
at least three sides through the placement of buildings; or
         d.   Enclose outdoor dining or gathering places between buildings.
Figure 5.3.1.F.10: Multi-Building Development
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-234.jpg]
      11.   Site Features.
         a.   Off-Street Parking Location.
            i.   Sites comprised of commercial buildings subject to these
design standards shall be configured such that no more than 50 percent of the
provided off-street parking shall be located between a building's primary
building facade and the street it faces.
            ii.   Off-street parking serving development located within a
Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) district shall be configured in accordance with
the applicable requirements in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
         b.   Service, Loading, and Delivery Areas. Ground mounted mechanical
equipment, solid waste collection, recycling collection, and loading spaces
shall be located to the rear or side yard and screened in accordance with
Section
5.10, Screening.
         c.   Canopies. Except for canopies associated with fuel sales,
overhead canopies intended to cover the vehicles of patrons shall be configured
in accordance with the following standards:
            i.   The total number of canopies shall be limited to one per
building;
            ii.   The canopy shall be physically connected to the principal
structure;
            iii.   The canopy shall be located to the side or rear of the
structure, or configured so that it has the appearance of being enclosed by
building walls on at least two sides;
            iv.   The canopy shall be configured of consistent or complimentary
materials and colors as the primary exterior materials, including canopy
supports;
            v.   The canopy shall be subject to maximum height standards for
buildings in the zoning district where located; and
            vi.   The canopy shall comply with the standards in Section
5.4, Exterior Lighting.
   G.   Standards for Large Format Retail Uses. The following standards shall
apply to large format retail uses.
      1.   Large Format Retail Uses Distinguished. Large format retail uses are
commercial use types (see
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table) in buildings that are:
         a.   More than 50,000 square feet gross floor area on the ground floor
for a single tenant;
         b.   More than 150,000 square feet on the ground floor serving
multiple tenants, including outparcels.
      2.   Compliance with Commercial Design Requirements. Large format retail
uses shall comply with the following commercial design standards:
         a.   Section
5.3.1.F.1, Street Network;
         b.   Section
5.3.1.F.3, Building Address Numbers;
         c.   Section
5.3.1.F.4, Building Articulation;
         d.   Section
5.3.1.F.5, Materials and Colors;
         e.   Section
5.3.1.F.6, Roof Form;
         f.   Section
5.3.1.F.8, Awnings;
         g.   Section
5.3.1.F.9, Outparcels;
         h.   Section
5.3.1.F.10, Multi-Building Development; and
         i.   Section
5.3.1.F.11, Site Features, except off-street parking location.
      3.   Additional Standards for Large Format Retail Uses.
         a.   Customer Entrances. Large format retail establishments shall
comply with the standards in Section
5.3.1.F.2, Customer Entrances, except that primary entrances shall include four
of the listed options instead of three.
         b.   Fenestration. Building walls on large format retail uses shall
incorporate fenestration features in accordance with the following standards
(see
Figure 5.3.1.G.3.b: Large Retail Building Fenestration):
            i.   Primary Building Walls. Primary building walls shall be
configured so that:
               1.   At least 10 percent of the first floor portion of the
primary wall is occupied by visually transparent windows or doors; and
               2.   No more than 50 percent of any single window or door is
obstructed by a window sign or other opaque display.
            ii.   Secondary Building Walls. Secondary building walls shall be
configured so that at least 5 percent of the ground floor facade is occupied
by:
               1.   Visually transparent windows or doors;
               2.   False or opaque windows;
               3.   Articulated wall forms designed to mimic window openings
that also include an overhang or awning.
Figure 5.3.1.G.3.b: Large Retail Building Fenestration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-236.jpg]
         c.   Off-Street Parking Location.
            i.   Sites comprised of large format retail buildings subject to
these design standards shall be configured such that no more than 75 percent of
the provided off-street parking shall be located between a building's primary
building facade and the street it faces.
            ii.   Off-street parking serving large format retail development
located within a Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) district shall be configured in
accordance with the applicable requirements in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021)
5.3.2.   Mixed-Use Design Standards
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose for these standards is to create
vibrant, pedestrian-oriented areas of residential and non-residential use that
are located in the same building or in close proximity to one another on the
same site. More specifically, these standards are intended to:
      1.   Create well-designed, desirable places for Town residents and
visitors to shop, dine, recreate, and live;
      2.   Ensure development within mixed use areas is compact and walkable;
      3.   Shorten travel times and support alternative modes of transportation
by reducing the need for automobile travel within urban portions of the Town;
      4.   Encourage human-scaled development that is pedestrian-oriented;
      5.   Reduce development costs by facilitating the most dense forms of
development in areas easily served by public infrastructure; and
      6.   Accommodate both vertically mixed-use development within an
individual building as well as horizontally mixed-use development on a single
site.
   B.   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all the
following:
      1.   New development within the OI district;
      2.   New multi-story development within the DTP district;
      3.   Live/work dwellings;
      4.   Upper story residential; and
      5.   Any development that includes principal use types from the
residential and commercial or institutional use classifications in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table, within the same building or within the same
development site.
   C.   Exemptions. These standards shall not be applied to the following forms
of development:
      1.   Agriculture-related uses;
      2.   Renovation or redevelopment of existing structures; and
      3.   Mixed-use development established prior to January 1, 2020.
   D.   Timing of Review. Review for compliance with these standards shall take
place during review of an associated rezoning, site plan, special use permit,
or planned development master plan, as appropriate.
   E.   Design Requirements. Development subject to these standards shall be
designed in accordance with the following:
      1.   Street Network. In cases where mixed-use development involves the
construction of new streets or alleys, the new streets shall be configured in
accordance with the following standards:
         a.   Streets shall be organized into a grid pattern with block lengths
that do not exceed 500 feet.
         b.   Streets shall be configured to a design speed of 25 miles per
hour.
         c.   Streets shall include traffic-calming features such as
roundabouts, raised pedestrian crossings, bulb-outs, speed tables, raised
medians, and chicanes, but excluding speed bumps, which shall not be included.
         d.   Streets shall include well-defined ADA-compliant crosswalks and
small turning radii at intersections.
         e.   Streets shall include bicycle lanes in accordance with NCDOT
standards.
         f.   Streets shall include sidewalks configured in accordance with
Section
6.4, Sidewalks.
         g.   Mid-block alleys shall be included to facilitate off-street
parking and to accommodate service functions.
         h.   Cul-de-sacs and dead-end streets are prohibited, except where
topography or natural features make them necessary.
      2.   Building Orientation.
         a.   Single Building Development. New development consisting of a
single building shall be oriented such that the long axis of the building is
either parallel or perpendicular to the street right-of-way it faces.
         b.   Multiple Building Development. Development comprised of multiple
buildings shall be configured with two or more of the following design elements
(see
Figure 5.3.2.E.2.b: Multiple Building Development):
            i.   Site configuration os a series of smaller "blocks" defined by
buildings fronting on-site streets and internal vehicle accessways, utilizing
pedestrian oriented design such as walkways, or other circulation routes and
multi-modal transportation access/waiting areas when appropriate;
            ii.   Corner buildings designed to front both sides of an adjacent
street intersection or entry point to the development in an "L" configuration;
            iii.   Buildings facing each other across a relatively narrow
vehicular access area with pedestrian amenities in a "main street" character;
            iv.   Buildings enclosing at least three sides of parking areas,
public spaces, or other site amenities; or
            v.   Buildings enclosing outdoor dining or gathering spaces for
pedestrians between buildings.
Figure 5.3.2.E.2.b: Multiple Building Development
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-238.jpg]
      3.   Building Location.
         a.   Buildings on lots bounding streets shall be built to the edge of
the sidewalk. In the case of double or reverse frontage lots, the building
shall be located adjacent to the street providing the street address for the
building.
         b.   When development is proposed on a corner lot, the building shall
be configured to occupy the lot corner at the street intersection.
         c.   Nothing shall prevent a mixed-use building from exceeding a
maximum front or corner side setback being setback, provided the area between
the building and the street is occupied by a public gathering space, open space
set-aside, or an area used for outdoor dining.
      4.   Lot Frontage to be Occupied by Building Wall.
         a.   In order to ensure an inviting and desirable streetscape for
pedestrians, mixed use development shall be configured so that at least 70
percent of the lot frontage is occupied by building wall (see
Figure 5.3.2.E.4: Occupied Frontage).
         b.   Areas occupied by gathering areas (like plazas), urban open space
set-aside, or outdoor dining areas shall be credited towards the lot frontage
requirements.
Figure 5.3.2.E.4: Occupied Frontage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-240.jpg]
      5.   Ground Floor Configuration. The ground floor of vertically-
integrated mixed-use buildings and buildings located in the OI district shall
be configured to meet the North Carolina Building Code requirements for
commercial development. Nothing shall require the ground floor to be occupied
by a non-residential use.
      6.   Off-Street Parking Location.
         a.   Off-street parking areas shall be located to the side or rear of
buildings subject to these standards.
         b.   Mixed-use buildings located outside the NC district and with two
or more habitable stories may be configured to allow up to one row of off-
street parking spaces between the building and the street it fronts (see
Figure 5.3.2.E.6: Off-Street Parking Location). All other off-street parking
shall be located to the side or the rear of a mixed-use building.
Figure 5.3.2.E.6: Off-Street Parking Location
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-242.jpg]
      7.   Building Articulation. Buildings subject to these standards shall be
configured so that no single facade fronting a public street shall extend for
longer than 35 linear feet without inclusion of one or more of the following
features (see
Figure 5.3.2.E.7: Mixed-Use Building Articulation):
         a.   The use of projections or recesses in the building facade wall
with a depth of between 18 inches and 36 inches from the primary facade plane
and a minimum span of eight feet;
         b.   The use of columns, pilasters, or other architectural detail
harmonious with the general design of the structure with a minimum width of
eight inches and spaced no less than every ten feet on-center;
         c.   Distinct changes in building material that are vertically aligned
with variations in roof form and parapet heights; or
         d.   A single vertical accent or focal point such as a tower feature
located on a prominent building corner.
Figure 5.3.2.E.7: Mixed-Use Building Articulation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-244.jpg]
      8.   Fenestration.
         a.   Blank, windowless walls facing sidewalks, streets, and other
public places shall be prohibited.
         b.   At least 40 percent of the first floor facade facing a street
shall be transparent, whether through the use of glass windows, doors, or both
(see
Figure 5.3.2.E.8: Mixed-use Building Fenestration).
         c.   At least 25 percent of each upper story facade facing a street
shall be transparent.
         d.   Ventilation grates or emergency exit doors located at the first
floor level oriented toward a street shall be decorative.
Figure 5.3.2.E.8: Mixed Use Building Fenestration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-246.jpg]
      9.   Building Entrances.
         a.   Primary structures must be oriented with their main entrance
facing the street upon which the project fronts.
         b.   If the site is on a corner, it may have its main entrance
oriented to either street or at the corner.
         c.   Entrances serving mixed-use buildings shall include at least two
of the following features fronts (see
Figure 5.3.2.E.9: Mixed-Use Building Entrances):
            i.   Canopies or porticos;
            ii.   Overhangs;
            iii.   Recesses/projections;
            iv.   Soldier courses or story lines;
            v.   Galleries or arcades;
            vi.   Raised corniced parapets over the door;
            vii.   Peaked roof forms;
            viii.   Arches;
            ix.   Architectural detail such as tile work and moldings
integrated into the building structure and design; or
            x.   Integral planters that incorporate landscaped areas and places
for sitting.
Figure 5.3.2.E.9: Mixed-Use Building Entrances
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-248.jpg]
      10.   Roof Form.
         a.   Roof pitches less than 3:12 and flat roofs shall require a
parapet wall on all sides visible from the street. Parapet walls shall fully
screen all roof-top mechanical equipment from the street.
         b.   Parapet walls shall have decorative cornices or caps.
         c.   A pitched roof shall have eaves that extend a minimum of 12
inches from the building face.
         d.   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment on a pitched roof shall be
screened or otherwise camouflaged from view from the street.
      11.   Weather Protection. Weather protection for pedestrians, such as
awnings, canopies, galleries, and arcades, shall be provided along building
frontages abutting a public sidewalk or a hard-surfaced expansion of a
sidewalk, and along building frontages between a building entrance and a public
street or accessway.
      12.   Drive-Up/Drive Through Prohibited. No building within a mixed-use
development or downtown district shall include drive-up or drive through
facilities.
      13.   Signage. Pole signs shall be prohibited on lots with mixed-use
development.
   F.   Dumpster Enclosure Design. The following standards shall apply to
dumpster and refuse collection areas for commercial uses.
      1.   The sides and back of enclosures shall be constructed of the same
materials as the primary building and the following materials are prohibited.
         a.   Natural wood fence panels.
         b.   Synthetic Stucco or EFIS.
         c.   Chain-Link.
         d.   Reflective Corrugated Metal.
      2.   Gates shall be constructed of a metal panel system and painted or
coated black, grey, or similar neutral color.
      3.    Enclosures shall meet the requirements of Table 5.10.5 Screening
Methods.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1967.png]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-40,
passed 5-2-2022)
5.3.3.   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
   A.   Purpose and Intent. These multi-family residential design standards
supplement the applicable zoning district and use-specific standards of this
Ordinance by providing the minimum requirements for design and configuration of
multi-family development within the Town's planning jurisdiction. They are
intended to:
      1.   Ensure multi-family development takes place in a manner consistent
with the context, scale, and proportion of its surroundings;
      2.   Promote greater compatibility between new multi-family development
and other allowable use types, particularly adjacent residential single-family
detached dwellings;
      3.   Establish expectations for minimum level of quality for multi-family
development;
      4.   Encourage creativity in design and promote individual project
identity;
      5.   Create neighborhoods with enhanced architectural and visual
interest; and
      6.   Preserve property values and protect public and private investment.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Generally. Except where expressly exempted in writing in this
Ordinance, the standards in this section shall apply to the following forms of
development:
         a.   New multi-family dwellings;
         b.   New triplex and quadplex dwellings; and
         c.   New multi-unit residential structures within a continuing care
retirement community use type; and
         d.   New assisted living facilities and nursing homes.
      2.   Voluntary Compliance for Single-Family Attached Dwellings.
         a.   Single-family attached development shall be exempted from these
standards, though a landowner may voluntarily agree to comply with them, comply
with them as part of a conditional rezoning (see Section
2.2.6, Conditional Rezoning), or comply in order to take advantage of a
sustainable development incentive (see Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives).
         b.   In cases where an applicant agrees to comply with these
standards, a signed copy of the following statement shall be included on all
approved site plans and subdivision plats.
The single-family attached development depicted on the attached site plan or
subdivision plat is subject to the Town of Zebulon's Multi-Family Residential
Design Standards in place at the time the application for this development was
determined to be complete. I _________________ hereby voluntarily consent to
the application of these design standards, the acceptance of which shall run
with the land regardless of changes in ownership, and recognize that failure to
comply with the applicable requirements following approval is a violation of
the Unified Development Ordinance.
                                                                                       
   Landowner Signature          Date
         c.   The signed statement of consent and an associated site plan
depicting the development's compliance with these standards shall be recorded
in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds prior to issuance of a
building permit.
   C.   Exemptions. The following forms of development shall be exempted from
these standards:
      1.   Single-family attached development, unless subject to voluntary
consent by the landowner in accordance with subsection (2) above or subject to
conditions of approval incorporated in a conditional rezoning approval;
      2.   Duplex dwellings;
      3.   Renovation or redevelopment of existing structures; and
      4.   Routine maintenance and repairs.
   D.   Timing of Review. Review for compliance with these standards shall take
place during review of an associated rezoning, site plan, special use permit,
or planned development, as appropriate.
   E.   Design Requirements. Development subject to these standards shall be
designed in accordance with the following:
      1.   Street Network.
         a.   On sites including new streets, an interconnected network of
streets shall be provided, to the maximum extent practicable, and streets shall
connect to adjacent existing streets outside of the development.
         b.   Vehicular driveways into a development with 10 or more dwelling
units shall be at least 100 feet away from any major intersection, to the
maximum extent practicable.
         c.   Driveways shall be consolidated in order to reduce curb cuts, to
the maximum extent practicable.
      2.   Building Orientation.
         a.   Buildings that abut streets shall be oriented parallel to the
street they front rather than being oriented at an angle to the street.
         b.   On corner lots, the long axis of the building shall be parallel
to the longest lot frontage unless such orientation is incompatible with
adjacent, existing development along the same street (see
Figure 5.3.3.E.2: Multi-Family Building Orientation).
         c.   Buildings within multiple-building developments shall be
clustered in order to define open space recreation areas and development entry
points.
Figure 5.3.3.E.2: Multi-Family Building Orientation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-250.jpg]
      3.   Building Entrances.
         a.   The facades of buildings abutting streets shall be configured so
that entryways to individual dwelling units or shared entrances face the
street.
         b.   Access to upper-floor dwelling units shall be obtained from
shared internal entries. In no instance shall walkways to individual upper-
story dwelling units take place on the exterior of the building.
         c.   Individual ground-floor and shared entryways shall be sheltered
from the weather either by:
            i.   Recessing the entrance at least three feet to the inside of
the primary ground floor facade plane; or
            ii.   Inclusion of an overhead architectural treatment that extends
outward at least three feet from the primary facade plane.
      4.   Building Facades.
         a.   Buildings subject to these standards shall maintain a consistent
level of architectural detailing and composition on each building facade facing
a street.
         b.   Building facades facing streets shall provide a minimum of three
of the following architectural elements (see
Figure 5.3.3.E.4: Multi-Family Building Facades):
            i.   A covered porch or terrace;
            ii.   One or more dormer windows or cupolas;
            iii.   Eyebrow windows;
            iv.   Awnings or overhangs;
            v.   Decorative moldings;
            vi.   Shutters;
            vii.   Pillars, posts, or pilasters;
            viii.   One or more bay windows with a minimum twelve-inch
projection from the facade plane;
            ix.   Multiple windows with a minimum of four-inch-wide trim;
            x.   Corniced parapets;
            xi.   Eaves with a minimum of four-inch-wide trim; or
            xii.   Integral planters that incorporate landscaped areas and/or
places for sitting.
Figure 5.3.3.E.4: Multi-Family Building Facades
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-252.jpg]
         c.   Garage entries, loading and service entries, utility rooms,
stairs, elevators, or similar features shall not occupy more than 20 percent of
the width of a building facade facing a street.
         d.   Attached street-facing garages serving individual dwelling units
shall be recessed at least three feet inwards from the primary first floor
facade plane or be associated with an upper-story projection that exists above
the garage.
         e.   Developments with three or more principal buildings shall provide
variation in building size, shape, height, color, and roofline in a manner that
allows different buildings to be distinguished from one another.
      5.   Building Corners. Building corners that are adjacent to one or more
streets shall include at least one of the following features (see
Figure 5.3.3.E.5: Multi-Family Building Corners):
         a.   A plaza or other gathering space;
         b.   A shared ground-floor pedestrian entryway;
         c.   A distinctive roof feature such as a tower, turret, spire,
pediment, or other architectural feature with a height above the roofline of
adjacent dwelling units;
         d.   Changes in roof type or pitch from the adjacent building sides;
or
         e.   Upper-story balconies or terraces that wrap both sides of the
corner.
Figure 5.3.3.E.5: Multi-Family Building Corners
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-254.jpg]
      6.   Building Massing.
         a.   Upper story facade walls shall not project beyond the ground
floor footprint except to accommodate bump-outs with windows.
         b.   In the case of two-story buildings, the exterior facade wells of
the second floor shall be in line with or setback from the first floor facade
walls.
         c.   In the case of three- (or more) story buildings, upper story
facade walls shall be setback from the second or ground-floor floor facade
walls to preserve light and air and avoid casting shadows (see
Figure 5.3.3.E.6: Multi-Family Building Massing).
Figure 5.3.3.E.6: Multi-Family Building Massing
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-256.jpg]
      7.   Building Articulation.
         a.   Street-facing building facades shall be articulated with wall
offsets, in the form of recesses or projections from the primary facade plane,
of at least two feet for every 35 linear feet of facade frontage (see
Figure 5.3.3.E.7: Multi-Family Facade Articulation).
         b.   Where provided, projections or recesses shall extend from the
grade to the top of the highest story in line with the ground-floor footprint.
Figure 5.3.3.E.7: Multi-Family Facade Articulation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-258.jpg]
      8.   Building Height.
         a.   Buildings subject to the standards of this section shall have a
maximum heigh t of two stories or 18 feet within 100 feet of a lot with an
existing single-family detached residential dwelling, without an intervening
street (see Figure 5.3.3.e.8: Multi-Family Building Height).
         b.   Building stories that are 75 percent or more below the finished
grade at the front of the lot shall not be counted towards the number of
allowable stories.
      9.   Roof Form.
         a.   Development shall incorporate roof pitches between 3:12 and 12:
12, or shall incorporate parapet walls with a dimensional cornice around a flat
roof.
         b.   Alternative roof forms or pitches are encouraged for small roof
sections over porches, entryways, or similar features.
         c.   Buildings with eaves shall be configured such that no single
horizontal eave continues for more than 60 linear feet without being broken up
by a gable, building projection, and articulation feature.
         d.   Buildings with overhanging eaves and roof rakes shall extend at
least six inches past supporting walls.
      10.   Building Materials and Colors.
         a.   Configuration.
            i.   The predominate exterior material shall be brick, stone,
cementitious, or other masonry material.
            ii.   Buildings subject to these standards shall include at least
two primary exterior materials on any single building.
            iii.   Changes in colors and materials shall take place at internal
corners or in logical locations, such as: building wings, bays, bump-outs, or
recesses (see
Figure 5.3.3.E.10: Multi-Family Building Materials). In no instance shall
exterior materials or colors change at outside corners.
            iv.   Heavier or more bulky exterior materials shall be located
beneath or below lighter materials.
Figure 5.3.3.E.10: Multi-Family Building Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-260.jpg]
         b.   Prohibited Materials. The following materials shall be prohibited
on any facade facing a street, open space, or district intended primarily for
single-family detached development:
            i.   Smooth-faced concrete block;
            ii.   Corrugated metal siding;
            iii.   Vinyl siding (excluding windows or soffits); or
            iv.   Synthetic stucco within two feet of the grade.
      11.   Accessory Structures. In addition to the standards in Section
4.4, Accessory Uses, accessory uses and structures associated with a
development subject to these standards shall comply with the following:
         a.   Street-facing detached garages on corner lots shall be located to
the side or rear of buildings.
         b.   Access to accessory structures (such as garages, carports,
storage areas, etc.) shall be provided from alleys or secondary streets, to the
maximum extent practicable.
         c.   Accessory buildings shall include exterior materials, colors, and
roof form designed to be consistent with the principal structure.
         d.   Accessory structures shall not physically obstruct pedestrian
entrances.
         e.   Centralized refuse collection containers, if provided, shall be
located in an enclosed area located to the rear of principal buildings.
      12.   Site Features.
         a.   Except for nursing homes, development subject to these standards
shall not include a gate or obstruction that blocks access to the site for
vehicles, bicycles, or pedestrians.
         b.   Off-street parking serving guests shall be evenly distributed
throughout the development.
         c.   Shared refuse collection containers shall be evenly distributed
throughout the development or be centrally located.
         d.   Detached garages or carports shall not be located between a
principal building and the street it faces.
         e.   Utilities shall be provided underground, and utility vaults shall
be clustered in areas outside of required landscaping.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2023-11,
passed 11-7-2022)
5.4.   EXTERIOR LIGHTING
5.4.1   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this section is to establish standards for exterior lighting on
individual lots to help ensure the safety of motorists and pedestrians
traveling on streets, sidewalks, and trails, and to minimize the potential for
adverse impacts on properties from excessive light intensity, light trespass,
and glare originating on adjacent lots.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.2.   Applicability
   A.   General. The provisions of this section shall apply to all multi-
family, mixed-use, and nonresidential development unless exempted in accordance
with Section
5.4.3, Exemptions.
   B.   Expansion or Remodeling. All expansions or remodeling of principal
buildings, parking areas, or open uses of land shall comply with these
standards, subject to the requirements in Section
7.4, Nonconforming Sites.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.3.   Exemptions
The following forms of exterior lighting or activities are exempt from the
requirements of this section:
   A.   Special events and holiday displays;
   B.   Exterior lighting used exclusively for recreational activities,
concerts, plays or other outdoor events that are open to the public, provided
that the event or function meets all other applicable requirements of this
Ordinance. Such lighting shall be located at least 50 feet from any adjoining
residential district or use and shall not be illuminated except during the
activity and brief periods immediately before and after the event.
   C.   FAA-required lighting on buildings, towers, or other structures;
   D.   Interior lighting for stadiums, arenas, and similar facilities;
   E.   Security lighting controlled and activated by motion sensor devices
that is shielded or aimed towards the ground and that remains lit for a
duration of 10 minutes or less;
   F.   Public street lighting;
   G.   Lighting of flags;
   H.   Temporary lighting necessary for construction or emergencies, when used
by construction workers or emergency personnel; and
   I.   Exterior lighting associated with single-family detached, single-family
attached, and duplex dwellings, except that these forms of development shall be
subject to Section
5.4.4, Prohibited Lighting.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.4.   Prohibited Lighting
The following forms of exterior lighting shall be prohibited:
   A.   Traffic Control Signals.
      1.   Lighting that imitates an official highway or traffic control light
or sign; or
      2.   Lighting in the direct line of sight with any traffic control light
or sign.
   B.   Flashing or Revolving. Flashing, revolving, or intermittent exterior
lighting visible from any lot line or street.
   C.   High Intensity Lighting.
      1.   High intensity light beams, such as searchlights or laser lights,
except when used by federal, State, or local authorities; or
      2.   High intensity LED or neon lighting fixtures mounted around the
interior or exterior of a window, door, or other architectural feature on a
structure.
   D.   Luminous Tube Lighting. Luminous tube lighting (e.g., neon, rope
lighting, etc.) is prohibited on building exteriors and in configurations where
it outlines a window or glass door from the inside of a structure.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.5.   Lighting Plan
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   An exterior lighting plan shall be required for all areas proposed
for illumination that exceed 10,000 square feet in area.
      2.   Projects with multiple areas proposed to be illuminated (such as
separate parking lots) shall submit a site lighting plan if the sum of the
multiple areas exceed 10,000 square feet.
   B.   Elements to Include. Regardless of whether an exterior lighting plan is
prepared, a site plan, or building permit application, as appropriate, shall
indicate the following:
      1.   Exterior lighting fixture type;
      2.   Exterior lighting pole height;
      3.   Exterior lighting fixture shielding; and
      4.   A statement by the applicant that any proposed exterior lighting
complies with the applicable requirements in this section.
   C.   Certification Required. Certification must be provided by the person
preparing a lighting plan that the proposed development complies with the
exterior lighting standards of this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.6.   Exterior Lighting Standards
All lighting fixtures designed or placed so as to illuminate any portion of a
site shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Shielding.
      1.   Overhead lighting fixtures shall be designed to prevent light from
emitting upwards towards the sky.
      2.   Under canopy lighting fixtures should be completely recessed within
the canopy.
      3.   Wall packs shall be cut-off and wall-mounted floodlights shall be
shielded (e.g., true cutoff type bulb or light source not visible from off-
site) to direct light downward.
      4.   Exterior lighting fixtures located on private property and visible
from a residential land use shall be configured so that the source of
illumination (the bulb) is not visible from the residential land use (see
Figure 5.4.6.A: Light Shielding).
Figure 5.4.6.A: Light Shielding
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-262.jpg]
   B.   Fixture Height.
      1.   Lighting fixtures shall be a maximum of 30 feet in height within the
parking lot and shall be a maximum of 15 feet in height within non-vehicular
pedestrian areas.
      2.   All light fixtures located within 50 feet of any single-family
detached or duplex dwelling shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
   C.   Lamp Type.
      1.   Incandescent, florescent, metal halide, light-emitting diode (LED),
or color corrected high-pressure sodium lamps are permitted.
      2.   Non-color-corrected high pressure sodium lamps are prohibited.
      3.   Other lamp types are allowed when the color emitted is similar to
the permitted lamp types.
      4.   The same lamp type must be used for the same or similar types of
lighting throughout a development.
   D.   Mounting Location. Exterior lighting shall be mounted and configured in
such a manner so that the cone of illumination is contained on-site and does
not cross any lot line around the perimeter of the site (see
Figure 5.4.6.D: Mounting Location).
Figure 5.4.6.D: Mounting Location
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-264.jpg]
   E.   Appearance.
      1.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be designed as an integral element
that complements the design of the project through compatible style, material,
and color.
      2.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be designed in a consistent and
coordinated manner for the entire site.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.7.   Maximum Illumination Levels
Exterior lighting shall be designed and located such that the maximum
illumination measured in footcandles at ground level at any lot line shall not
exceed the standards in
Table 5.4.7: Maximum Illumination Levels.
TABLE 5.4.7: MAXIMUM ILLUMINATION LEVELS
Type of Abutting Use or Zoning District  Maximum Illumination Level at the Lot
[1]                                      Line (Footcandles) [2]
TABLE 5.4.7: MAXIMUM ILLUMINATION LEVELS
Type of Abutting Use or Zoning District  Maximum Illumination Level at the Lot
[1]                                      Line (Footcandles) [2]
Single-family residential or duplex use
or land zoned for single-family          0.5
development
Multi-family or mixed-use development or
land zoned for multi-family or mixed-use 0.5
development
Mixed-use development or land zoned for  1.5
mixed-use development
Institutional use [3]                    2.0
Commercial or industrial use or land     2.5
zoned for uses other than residential
Public or private street right-of-way    5.0
NOTES:
[1] These are the kinds of uses or zoning districts that abut the development.
The maximum allowable illumination along any lot line shared with a single-
family residential use is 1.0 footcandles, regardless of the type of use
deploying the exterior lighting.
[2] In cases where a single development occupies multiple lots, the lot line
shall be the lot line(s) around the perimeter of the project.
[3] Use types are organized by use classification in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.4.8.   Nonconforming Lighting
   A.   Lighting fixtures that do not comply with these standards that were
lawfully established as of January 1, 2020, may remain, and shall be considered
nonconforming structures.
   B.   Any modifications, replacement, or expansions to the exterior lighting
facilities serving a development shall conform to the standards of this
Ordinance.(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.   FENCES AND WALLS
5.5.1.   Purpose and Intent
These standards provide development standards for permanent fences and walls on
individual lots or development sites. These standards are proposed to protect
the health and safety of the public while balancing the practical uses for
fencing and walls like security and privacy with the need for aesthetic quality
and a high quality built environment. More specifically, these standards are
intended to:
   A.   Provide for privacy and security on individual lots;
   B.   Ensure proper construction techniques are followed and that fences and
walls are maintained in good repair;
   C.   Assist with the transition between public and private spaces; and
   D.   Ensure fencing and walls are consistent with the Town's desired
architectural character.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.2.   Applicability
   A.   Generally. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
construction or replacement of all fences, screening walls, or retaining walls.
A fence or wall may only be erected in accordance with the standards in this
section.
   B.   Pre-Existing Development. Lawfully-established fences and walls
established prior to January 1, 2020 that do not comply with these standards
shall be subject to the applicable standards in
Article 7: Nonconformities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.3.   Exemptions
The following are exempted from the standards in this section:
   A.   Bona fide farms and agricultural use types in districts where these
uses are permitted;
   B.   Temporary fences for construction sites, including but not limited to:
fencing necessary for soil erosion and sedimentation control and tree
protection.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.4.   Locational Standards
   A.   General. No fence or wall shall:
      1.   Be located within the public right-of-way (except for public fences
or walls, or as needed for retention of soil);
      2.   Impede visibility of the required property address number; or
      3.   Block pedestrian access from doors or windows.
   B.   Easements.
      1.   In cases where a fence or wall is proposed within an easement, the
applicant shall provide evidence of the easement owner's consent regarding
placement of the fence or wall.
      2.   The landowner shall remain solely liable for any repair or
replacement if any portion of the fence or wall located within a required
easement is damaged during maintenance or construction activities within the
easement by the easement owner or their agent.
   C.   Block Drainage. Fences or walls shall not alter or impede the natural
flow of water in any stream, creek, drainage swale, or ditch.
   D.   Obstructions at Intersection. Except for necessary retaining walls, no
fence or wall shall be located within a required sight distance triangle (see
Section
5.1.7, Sight Distance Triangles).
   E.   Required Setbacks. Fences or walls may be located within required
setbacks, but shall not encroach onto a separate lot.
   F.   Required Landscaping Areas. Fences or walls may be located in required
landscaping areas, subject to the standards in Section
5.6.8, Features Allowed Within Required Landscaping Areas.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.5.   Maximum Height
   A.   Maximum fence and wall height shall be in accordance with
Table 5.5.5: Maximum Fence and Wall Height, and
Figure 5.5.5: Maximum Fence and Wall Height:
TABLE 5.5.5: MAXIMUM FENCE AND WALL HEIGHT
Type of Zoning District Location on Site Maximum Height (Feet) [1]
TABLE 5.5.5: MAXIMUM FENCE AND WALL HEIGHT
Type of Zoning District Location on Site             Maximum Height (Feet) [1]
                        Between the principal
Residential             building and a lot line      4
                        abutting a street ROW
                        All other locations          6
                        Between the principal
Commercial              building and a lot line      4
                        abutting a street ROW
                        All other locations          8
                        Opaque fences and walls
                        between the principal        4
                        building and a lot line
                        abutting a street ROW
                        Semi-opaque fences and walls
Industrial              between the principal        10
                        building and a lot line
                        abutting a street ROW
                                                     Within a required yard or
                        All other locations          setback: 10
                                                     Outside a required yard or
                                                     setback: 10
Notes:
[1] Fence height limits shall not apply to chain link fences surrounding tennis
courts or ball field backstops.
 
   B.   Fence and wall height shall be measured in accordance with the
standards in Section
9.3.15, Fence and Wall Height.
Figure 5.5.5: Fence and Wall Height
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-266.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.6.   Wind Loading
All fencing and walls subject to the standards of this section shall be
constructed in accordance with the North Carolina Building Code, and shall be
designed and constructed in order to meet the minimum applicable wind loading
standards in the Town of Zebulon.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.7.   Duration
Fences and walls shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to ensure a
minimum useful life of at least ten years, and be configured in accordance with
the standards in Section
5.5.8, Permitted Materials.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.8.   Permitted Materials
The following fencing materials are permitted for fences and walls:
   A.   Masonry or stone;
   B.   Ornamental iron, steel, or aluminum;
   C.   Wood;
   D.   Vinyl, plastic, or composite; or
   E.   Chain-link, except where prohibited by this Ordinance.(Ord. 2020-36,
passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.9.   Restricted Fence Materials
   A.   Barbed Wire as Fencing. Barbed wire as a fence is prohibited in all
zoning districts except that it may be allowed as part of a bona fide farm use.
   B.   Barbed Wire Atop Another Material.
      1.   No barbed or razor wire shall be permitted on a fence or wall in a
residential or OI district.
      2.   Barbed or razor wire may be used atop another fencing material
(e.g., chain link) outside of residential or OI districts only in cases where
the barbed or razor wire is at least six feet above the ground measured at the
base of the fence.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.10.   Electric Fences
Fences that carry an electrical current are allowed solely for the purposes of
enclosing livestock as part of a bona fide farm use. Nothing shall prohibit
below-ground electrical fences intended for the keeping of pets.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.11.   Prohibited Fence Materials
   A.   Fences made of wooden pallets, tires, debris, junk, rolled plastic,
sheet metal, untreated or unpainted plywood, readily flammable material, or
waste materials shall be prohibited, unless the materials have been recycled
and reprocessed, for marketing to the general public as building materials
designed to resemble new building materials (e.g., picket fencing made from
recycled plastic and fiber).
   B.   In no instance shall tarps or silt fencing remain on a lot or site
after completion of construction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.12.   Materials for Temporary Fences
Temporary fences in place for up to 90 days may be comprised of any material
approved by the Planning Director.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.13.   Wall Material Standards
   A.   Walls shall be constructed of one or more of the following materials:
      1.   Stucco over concrete block;
      2.   Exposed aggregate concrete; or
      3.   Brick, stone, or architectural block assembled in a structurally
safe and attractive condition.
   B.   No walls of exposed smooth-face concrete block shall be permitted.
   C.   Stacked stone or other masonry configurations where no mortar or other
bonding agent is used between stones or individual masonry units shall not
exceed 36 inch height above grade.
   D.   Alternative wall materials may be permitted by the Planning Director
provided they provide a similar level of opacity to that of the listed
materials and are in keeping with the architecture of the development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.14.   Finished Side
All fences or walls shall be configured so that the finished side faces
outwards. For the purposes of this section, the finished side does not include
any supporting members or bracing (see
Figure 5.5.14: Finished Side).
Figure 5.5.14: Finished Side
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-268.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.5.15.   Maintenance
   A.   Any fence or wall which, through neglect, lack of repair, type or
manner of construction, method of placement or otherwise, constitutes a hazard
or endangers any person, animal, or property is in violation of this Ordinance.
   B.   When a fence or wall is in violation of this Ordinance, the Planning
Director shall require the owner or occupant of the property upon which the
fence or wall is located to repair, replace, or demolish the fence or wall in
accordance with all applicable standards in this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.   LANDSCAPING
5.6.1.   Section Organization
These landscaping standards are organized into three main groups of related
standards:
   A.   Applicability and configuration provisions in Subsections 5.6.3 through
5.6.8;
   B.   The standards for the five types of required landscaping (parking lots,
perimeter buffers, foundation plantings, streetscape buffers, and street trees)
in Subsections 5.6.9 through 0; and
   C.   The flexibility, maintenance, and replacement standards in Subsections
5.6.14 through 5.6.18.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.2.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of these provisions is to establish minimum requirements for the
provision and maintenance of functionally adequate, attractive screening and
buffering of buildings, site features, and off-street parking areas. These
standards are intended to:
   A.   Promote and increase design compatibility between different land uses,
while ensuring attractive views from streets and adjacent properties;
   B.   Assist in delineating separations of spaces, structures, uses, and
activities on a site, or between adjacent sites;
   C.   Shield adjacent properties from potentially adverse external impacts of
adjacent land uses and activities;
   D.   Abate glare and moderate temperatures of impervious areas;
   E.   Help filter air of fumes and dust;
   F.   Provide shade;
   G.   Reduce noise;
   H.   Reduce the visual impact of large expanses of pavement;
   I.   Promote energy conservation;
   J.   Reduce the amount and rate of stormwater runoff and erosion;
   K.   Improve stormwater runoff quality;
   L.   Increase in the capacity for groundwater recharge; and
   M.   Enhance the appearance and value of both residential and non-
residential development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.3.   Applicability
The standards in this section apply to the following forms of development:
   A.   New Principal Buildings or Uses. New principal buildings or open uses
of land, including publicly-owned buildings or sites, constructed,
reconstructed, or established after January 1, 2020.
   B.   Improvements and Expansions. All improvements, including expansions or
remodeling of principal buildings, parking areas, or open uses of land that
exceed 3,000 square feet in area shall comply with these standards, subject to
the requirements in Section
7.4, Nonconforming Sites.
   C.   Multi-Phase Development. Multi-family, non-residential, and mixed-use
development that is planned and developed in phases shall be required to
install landscaping that is associated with the active phase or phases only,
unless an alternative arrangement is otherwise agreed to by the Planning
Director and the developer. An active phase of a development is the one that is
subject to permitted and on-going development activity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.4.   Exemptions
The following forms of development are exempted from these standards.
   A.   Changes to an existing or development of a new proposed single-family
detached or duplex dwelling on a residentially-zoned lot.
   B.   Routine maintenance of existing vegetation, such as watering and
fertilizing.
   C.   The removal of dead trees and shrubs, or trees and shrubs that have
been diagnosed and determined to be diseased beyond treatment, provided the
screening function of the landscaping is maintained or re-established. Failure
to maintain the screening function of a required landscaping area is a
violation of this Ordinance.
   D.   Pruning of vegetation, provided the screening function of the required
landscaping is maintained. Severe pruning is a violation of this Ordinance, and
shall require replacement of required vegetation.
   E.   Repaving or restriping of a parking lot, provided there is no increase
in parking lot size or the number of parking spaces.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.5.   Landscape Plan Required
   A.   Generally.
      1.   A landscape plan depicting how required landscaping will be planted
in accordance with these standards shall be included with an application for
site plan, preliminary plat, zoning compliance permit, or building permit, as
appropriate, to ensure compliance with this section.
      2.   The landscape plan shall be approved prior to, or concurrent with,
the approval of a site plan, preliminary plat, zoning compliance permit, or the
issuance of a building permit.
      3.   A landscape plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         a.   Location of required planting material;
         b.   Grouping or clusters of planting material, if proposed;
         c.   Identification of required plants, including their scientific
names;
         d.   Minimum and maximum dimensions of all planting yard areas;
         e.   Calculations determining the number of canopy trees, understory
trees, and shrubs required;
         f.   Locations, species, sizes, and methods of protection during
construction for existing vegetation to be retained and counted towards minimum
landscaping requirements;
         g.   Location(s), species, and size or planting density of required
trees included if the development is subject to the standards in Section
5.9, Reforestation; and
         h.   Existing topography, or proposed topography where site grading is
proposed to occur.
   B.   Phased Development. Development subject to these standards that is
planned in phases may submit a landscape plan for the entire development, or
separate landscape plans for each phase, which shall be approved prior to
approval of the final plat.
   C.   Landscaping in a Stormwater Retention Pond. If trees or shrubs are
proposed on or within 20 feet of the embankment of a stormwater retention pond,
a landscape plan showing the retention pond and surrounding landscaping must be
submitted for review to determine that the safety and functionality of the
device will not be compromised by the trees or shrubs.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.6.   Plant Material Specifications
   A.   Canopy Tree Size.
      1.   Canopy trees shall have a minimum height at maturity of 40 feet and
a minimum crown width of 30 feet (see
Figure 5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications).
      2.   All canopy trees shall have a minimum height of eight feet, or more,
and a minimum caliper size of two and one-half (2 ½) inches, or more, at
planting (see Section
9.3.12.A, Determining Tree Size at Time of Planting).
      3.   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height at
planting.
   B.   Understory Tree Size.
      1.   Understory trees shall have a minimum height at maturity of 15 to 40
feet, except that trees to be placed below overhead utility lines may not
exceed a mature height of 20 feet (see
Figure 5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications).
      2.   All understory trees shall have a minimum height of four feet, or
more, and a minimum caliper size of one-and-one-half inches, or more, at
planting (see Section
9.3.12.A, Determining Tree Size at Time of Planting).
      3.   Drought tolerant understory trees shall have a minimum caliper size
of one inch at planting.
      4.   Nothing shall limit the use of multi-stemmed understory trees
provided that 25 percent or more of the leaders meet the requirements in
Section
9.3.12.A, Determining Tree Size at Time of Planting.
   C.   Shrub Size and Variety.
      1.   All shrubs shall be at least a three-gallon size and have a minimum
height or spread of 18 inches at the time of planting (see Section
5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications).
      2.   Shrubs shall reach a minimum height of 36 inches and a spread of 30
inches within three years of planting.
      3.   Decorative grasses may be proposed as a substitute for shrubs,
provided the grasses meet the screening objectives and are approved by the
Planning Director.
      4.   Shrubs or grasses used to screen off-street parking areas shall be
evergreen or retain their leaves/blades throughout the year.
Figure 5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-270.jpg]
   D.   Native or Locally-Adapted Species.
      1.   Required landscaping materials shall be cold-hardy for the location
where planted.
      2.   Plant species used in required landscaping areas must be native
species or species of a locally-adapted nature. Other species require approval
by the Planning Director.
   E.   Species Diversity.
      1.   To curtail the spread of disease or insect infestation in a plant
species, new plantings shall comply with the following standards:
      2.   When fewer than 20 trees are required on a site, at least two
different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal proportions (see
Figure 5.6.6.E: Species Diversity).
      3.   When more than 20 but fewer than 40 trees are required to be planted
on site, at least three different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal
proportions.
      4.   When 40 or more trees are required on a site, at least four
different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal proportions.
      5.   A larger number of different species than specified may be utilized.
      6.   In no instance shall invasive species, as determined by the North
Carolina Extension Service, be utilized as landscaping materials to meet the
requirements of this Ordinance.
Figure 5.6.6.E: Species Diversity
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-272.jpg]
   F.   Stabilization.
      1.   Required landscaping areas shall be stabilized and maintained with
vegetative cover, mulch, decorative gravel, cinders, or other approved
materials to prevent soil erosion and allow rainwater infiltration.
      2.   Required landscaping areas with slopes of 15 percent or more shall
be stabilized with vegetative cover (not mulch or gravel) designed to minimize
erosion. Required vegetative cover shall be established and functional prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Use of landscape fabric on slopes of 15 percent or more is
discouraged.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.7.   Landscaping Placement
   A.   Outside Public Street Rights-of-Way.
      1.   Except for street trees, required landscaping material shall not be
located within a street right-of-way.
      2.   Where provided, street trees shall be configured in accordance with
Section
5.6.13, Street Trees.
   B.   Grouping of Plant Material.
      1.   Except for street trees, streetscape buffers, shrubs around the
perimeter of a parking lot, shrubs along a primary or front facade foundation,
or when vegetation is included as a screening device in accordance with Section
5.10, Screening, required plant material may generally be grouped or clustered,
provided the overall screening objective in these standards is adequately
addressed.
      2.   Street trees shall maintain on-center spacing requirements in
Section
5.6.13, Street Trees.
      3.   Streetscape buffers shall maintain the on-center spacing
requirements in Section
5.6.12, Streetscape Buffers.
      4.   Shrubs intended to screen building foundations from view from the
public realm shall not exceed the maximum on-center spacing in Section
5.6.11, Foundation Plantings.
      5.   Shrubs intended to screen features in accordance with Section
5.10, Screening, may not be grouped if such grouping results in the failure to
meet the minimum screening standards of this Ordinance.
   C.   Multiple-Lot Development. A multiple-lot development is not required to
provide perimeter buffers along lot lines internal to the development, but the
perimeter of the development shall be subject to the standards in Section
5.6.10, Perimeter Buffers.
   D.   Easements.
      1.   Trees and shrubs may be located within a required easement on a
case-by-case basis with the permission of the easement holder.
      2.   When landscaping is within an easement, the landowner is responsible
for replacement of any required vegetation if maintenance or other actions
result in its removal.
      3.   When landscaping is planted in a drainage easement, it shall not
impact the easement design or impede the flow of water through the easement.
      4.   Where an easement and a required landscape area coincide and there
is a prohibition on planting within the easement, then the required landscaping
area shall be located outside the easement.
   E.   Setback Smaller than Required Landscaping Area. In cases where a
required setback is smaller or more narrow than a required landscaping area,
the landscaping area width or size shall not be reduced except as authorized by
any of the following:
      1.   An alternative landscape plan;
      2.   An administrative adjustment;
      3.   A conditional rezoning approval;
      4.   An approved planned development master plan; or
      5.   A sustainable development incentive.
   F.   Fire Protection System. Minimum clear separation distances required by
the current adopted version of the North Carolina Fire Code shall be maintained
for landscaping near a fire protection system.
   G.   Landscaping in Bio-Retention Cells. Trees and shrubs used in bio-
retention cells or rain gardens located in parking lots or within landscape
yards may be counted toward tree or shrub requirements of this Ordinance,
provided they meet the minimum specifications in Section
5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications.
   H.   Permitted Encroachments.
      1.   The following features may be located entirely within required
landscaping areas, provided the screening function of the landscaping is
maintained and provided any encroachments into a required setback are in
accordance with
Table 9.3.5: Allowable Encroachment into Required Setbacks:
         a.   Principal buildings, provided the minimum setbacks of the zoning
district where located, are maintained;
         b.   Landscaping features such as, ornamental pools, planting boxes,
sculpture, arbors, trellises, and birdbaths;
         c.   Pet shelters, well houses, and mechanical enclosures;
         d.   On-grade patios, steps, benches, outdoor fireplaces, playground
equipment serving an individual dwelling unit, accessibility ramps, roof
overhangs, and fire escapes;
         e.   Ornamental entry columns, gates, fences, walls, and retaining
walls;
         f.   Flagpoles of 30 feet in height or less;
         g.   Lamp and address posts;
         h.   Utility cabinets of four feet in height or less;
         i.   Mailboxes; and
         j.   Signage.
      2.   The following features may cross a required landscaping area in a
manner that minimizes the impact to the required landscaping:
         a.   Driveways, sidewalks, pedestrian walkways, greenways, or multi-
use trails;
         b.   Utilities; and
         c.   Stormwater management facilities.
   I.   Prohibited Features. The following features shall not be located within
a required landscaping area:
      1.   An accessory structure or open air use;
      2.   Off-street parking or loading areas; or
      3.   Outdoor storage or display of products for sale.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.8.   Features Allowed Within Required Landscaping Areas
   A.   Berms. Berms may be used independently, or in conjunction with a wall
or fencing, to meet the screening intent of a perimeter buffer or other
required screening when configured in accordance with the following:
      1.   Berms shall have a minimum height of three feet, a minimum crown
width of at least three feet, and a slope of no greater than 3:1.
      2.   Berms shall be no taller than twelve feet above the toe of the berm.
      3.   Berms shall be stabilized with trees, shrubs, and ground cover.
      4.   A berm may not damage the roots of existing healthy vegetation being
preserved for credit towards the landscaping requirements in this Ordinance.
Suffocation of existing roots by deposition of fill in excess of 12 inches
shall be considered damage to existing tree roots.
      5.   A berm shall not interfere with required a sight distance triangle
(see Section
5.1.7, Sight Distance Triangles).
   B.   Fences and Walls.
      1.   Opaque fences or walls, a minimum of four feet in height,
constructed within required landscaping areas, and configured in accordance
with Section
5.5, Fences and Walls, may reduce the minimum and average perimeter buffer
width requirement in accordance with Table 5.6.10.C: Perimeter Buffer
Configuration.
      2.   If utilized, fences or walls shall be located within the required
landscaping area and all required shrubs shall be planted between the fence or
wall and the lot line.
      3.   Required trees may be planted either in front of or behind the fence
or wall.
   C.   Planters.
      1.   Planters, if provided, shall be constructed of masonry, stone, or
pressure treated lumber stamped for ground contact. Other materials may be
approved, based upon their durability, by the Planning Director.
      2.   Planters shall maintain a minimum height of 30 inches and have an
effective planting area of seven feet (measured in any direction) if trees are
to be planted and an effective planting area of four feet (measured in any
direction) if no trees are to be included.
      3.   The minimum height of shrubs in the planter, except for ground
cover, shall be six inches at the time of planting.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.9.   Parking Lot Landscaping
All parking lots serving multi-family, mixed-use, and non-residential
developments shall comply with the following parking lot landscaping standards:
   A.   Shade Trees. All parking lots shall be served by shade trees to reduce
the heat island effect and soften the appearance of the parking lot, in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Parking lots subject to these standards shall include at least one
canopy tree for every 12 off-street parking spaces provided.
      2.   Required canopy trees may be placed around, in, or near the parking
lot provided that no parking space is more than 50 feet from the trunk of a
canopy tree (see
Figure 5.6.9.A: Parking Lot Shading).
      3.   Required canopy trees shall be distributed throughout parking areas
and may be located in landscape islands, between rows of parking, in driveway
medians, and within ten feet of the perimeter of the parking lot.
Figure 5.6.9.A: Parking Lot Shading
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-274.jpg]
   B.   Interior Plantings.
      1.   Area to be Landscaped. For the purposes of this section, the
interior of a parking lot shall be all of the area within the outer boundary of
the parking lot including interior and corner landscape islands intended to
fulfill the interior parking lot landscaping requirements, but not including
landscaping planted around the perimeter of the parking lot (see
Figure 5.6.9.B: Parking Lot Interior Plantings).
      2.   Landscaping Islands and Strips. A parking aisle with more than 12
vehicle spaces in a single row shall provide and maintain landscaping islands
at each end, or provide landscaping strips along the full length of the row, in
accordance with the following standards.
         a.   Islands shall have a minimum dimension of nine feet and a minimum
area of 200 square feet, including the curb (if curbing is provided).
         b.   Landscape islands shall provide 1,000 cubic feet of soil per
tree.
         c.   Landscape islands that do not contain canopy trees shall contain
three or more shrubs and also may contain understory trees.
         d.   Landscaping islands intended for the placement of canopy or
understory trees shall maintain a minimum width of nine feet.
         e.   Landscape strips between adjoining rows of parking spaces or
serving as driveway medians shall have a minimum dimension of nine feet,
including the curb (if provided). Landscape strips that do not have canopy
trees shall include shrubs planted no more than five feet on-center.
         f.   Landscaping strips running the full length of a row of parking
spaces shall be provided so that no more than six rows of parking spaces are
provided without a landscaping strip.
      3.   Separation of Light Poles and Trees. In order to prevent the need to
excessively trim required trees within landscape areas and to maintain the
effectiveness of parking area exterior lighting, light poles shall be spaced at
least ten linear feet from a canopy tree trunk, to the maximum extent
practicable.
      4.   Protection of Landscape Islands.
         a.   Landscape islands shall be protected from vehicle damage by the
installation of curbing, wheel stops, or other comparable methods.
         b.   The placement of plant material within landscape islands shall
allow for a two-and-one-half-foot vehicle overhang from the face of the curb or
wheel stop.
      5.   Protection from Pedestrian Walkways. In cases where a pedestrian
walkway must be located within five feet of a tree trunk, wooden walkways,
pervious pavers, or other methods shall be used to ensure the required tree is
not damaged by the walkway.
      6.   Stormwater Management. A landscape island may be designed to
function as a stormwater management device, provided its landscaping
performance function is maintained.
      7.   Structural Soil Required. Landscaping islands and strips located
within a parking lot shall be comprised of properly-prepared structural soil
that has been properly amended and cultivated to support healthy vegetation.
Figure 5.6.9.B: Parking Lot Interior Plantings
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-276.jpg]
   C.   Perimeter Plantings.
      1.   Intent. Parking lot perimeter landscaping shall be designed to
soften the view of the parking lot from an abutting street or development and
to filter spillover light from vehicle headlights. Required plant material
shall be planted in such a way as to best achieve this intent.
      2.   Location. Required plant material shall be placed adjacent to the
perimeter of the parking lot.
      3.   Planting Rate.
         a.   Parking lot perimeter landscaping shall consist of a single
continuous row of evergreen shrubs planted no greater than three feet on-center
and within five feet of the parking lot edge.
         b.   Applicants may propose an alternative plant species, such as
native grasses, provided the proposed plant material provides a fully opaque
screen to a maximum height of 36 inches above grade throughout the year, as
approved by the Planning Director.
      4.   Size of Plant Material.
         a.   Shrubs used for parking lot perimeter landscaping shall be of a
minimum size necessary to achieve a maximum height of 36 inches above grade
within three years of planting.
         b.   In cases when vegetation provided as perimeter plantings around a
parking lot grow to a height exceeding 48 inches above grade, they shall be
trimmed or pruned as necessary to maintain a minimum height of 36 inches.
         c.   It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to remove or severely
prune shrubs required as parking lot perimeter vegetation to a height of less
than 36 inches.
      5.   Alternatives. Perimeter parking lot plantings may be supplemented or
replaced through use of a vegetated berm configured in accordance with Section
5.6.8.A, Berms, or an opaque fence or wall that meets the screening objective
of this section and is configured in accordance with Section
5.5, Fences and Walls.
      6.   Exemptions.
         a.   Where off-street parking lots are adjacent to one another, but on
different lots, perimeter plantings or other forms of screening are not
required along the common boundary between the two parking lots.
         b.   Developments consisting of multiple lots that are planned and
developed as a single, unified, or consolidated project may be configured so
that perimeter plantings are only located around the perimeter of the entire
development instead of between parking lots and buildings located within the
development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.10.   Perimeter Buffers
   A.   Purpose and Intent. These standards are proposed to eliminate or
minimize potential nuisances, such as dirt, litter, noise, glare of lights,
signs, and unsightly buildings or parking areas through physical and visual
separation between land uses in separate zoning districts.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   All development shall comply with the perimeter buffer standards in
this section.
      2.   Development shall provide perimeter buffers along side and rear lot
lines in accordance with
Table 5.6.10.F, Buffer Application.
      3.   Lot lines abutting street rights-of-way shall comply with the
standards in Section
5.6.12, Streetscape Buffers.
   C.   Buffers Distinguished. Table 5.6.10.C: Perimeter Buffer Configuration,
establishes the standards for perimeter buffers, including the minimum
requirements for each of the following buffer types:
      1.   Type A, Separation Buffer;
      2.   Type B, Intermittent Buffer;
      3.   Type C, Semi-Opaque Buffer; and
      4.   Type D, Opaque Buffer.
   D.   Buffer Determination.
      1.   The lot or site being developed is the one responsible for providing
the required perimeter buffer, which shall be located solely upon the lot or
site being developed.
      2.   The type of perimeter buffer required is based upon the zoning
district designation of the land being developed as well as the zoning district
designation of the abutting lots (see
Table 5.6.10.F, Buffer Application).
   E.   Buffer Location.
      1.   Perimeter buffers required by this section shall be located along
the outer perimeter of the lot and shall extend to the connecting lot lines.
      2.   In cases where the lot line is within a drainage swale, the
perimeter buffer shall extend to the edge of the swale instead of the lot line.
      3.   A perimeter buffer may be located along shared access easements
between parcels in nonresidential developments.Table 5.6.10.C: Perimeter Buffer
Configuration
 
                  Objective: The Type A Separation perimeter buffer serves as a
                  visual break between land ownership or zoning district
TYPE A SEPARATION designations. It is not intended to provide substantial
                  visual or acoustic buffering. The image below shows an
                  approximation of this buffer type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-278.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-280.jpg]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Buffer width (feet)                                               10
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on- None
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum 4/ None [1]
on-center spacing (feet)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on-center spacing  15 /None [1]
(feet) [2]
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            50
Notes:
[1] Grouping of trees or shrubs is permitted provided there is no un-vegetated
portion of the buffer exceeding 30 feet in length.
[2] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
 
 
                    Objective: The Type B Intermittent perimeter buffer
                    functions as an intermittent visual screen from the ground
TYPE B INTERMITTENT to a height of five feet. It is intended to partially block
                    visibility between different uses but not totally obstruct
                    visual contact from one use to another. The image below
                    shows an approximation of this buffer type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-282.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-284.jpg]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Buffer width (feet)                                               20
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on- 2/50
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum 4/25 [1]
on-center spacing (feet)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on-center spacing  15/None [1]
(feet) [2]
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            60
Notes:
[1] Grouping of trees or shrubs is permitted provided there is no un-
vegetated portion of the buffer exceeding 20 feet in length.
[2] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
 
 
                   Objective: The Type C Semi-Opaque perimeter buffer functions
                   as a partially opaque screen from the ground to a height of
                   six feet. This type of buffer prevents visual contact
TYPE C SEMI-OPAQUE between uses but not total obstruction from one use to
                   another. The buffer creates a sense of visual separation but
                   provides only minor acoustic separation. The image below
                   shows an approximation of this buffer type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-286.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-288.jpg]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Minimum buffer width (feet) [1] [2]                               30
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on- 3/33
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum 6/16 [3]
on-center spacing (feet)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on-center spacing  25/4 [3]
(feet) [4]
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            75
Notes:
[1] Provision of a semi-opaque fence or wall allows the buffer width to be
reduced by 5 feet.
[2] Provision of a fully-opaque fence, wall, or berm allows the buffer width
to be reduced by 10 feet.
[3] Grouping of trees or shrubs is permitted within 20 feet of the edge of a
street right-of-way provided there is no un-vegetated portion of the buffer
exceeding 10 feet in length.
[4] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
 
 
              Objective: The Type D Opaque perimeter buffer functions as a
              fully opaque screen from the ground to a height of eight feet.
TYPE D OPAQUE This type of buffer provides a strong sense of visual and
              acoustic separation between uses. The image below shows an
              approximation of this buffer type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-290.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-292.jpg]
Buffer Configuration Requirement
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Minimum buffer width (feet) [1] [2]                               40
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on- 4/25
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum 8/15
on-center spacing (feet)
Minimum evergreen understory tree percentage (%)                  75
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum on-center spacing  35/3
(feet) [3]
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            100
Notes:
[1] Provision of a semi-opaque fence or wall allows the buffer width to be
reduced by 5 feet.
[2] Provision of a fully-opaque fence, wall, or berm allows the buffer width
to be reduced by 10 feet.
[3] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line.
 
   F.   Buffer Application.
Table 5.6.10.F, Buffer Application, specifies the type of perimeter buffer that
development shall provide between it and adjacent land, based on the zoning
district of the development site and that of the adjacent land. The buffer type
is indicated by a letter corresponding to one of the three buffer types
described in Table 5.6.10.C: Perimeter Buffer Configuration.
TABLE 5.6.10.F: BUFFER APPLICATION
Zoning District of   Zoning District of Land Adjacent to Proposed Development
Developing Land [1]  [3] [4] [5]
[2]
                     R1, R2 R4, R6 RMF, OI NC, DTP GC, HC LI, IC, HI
TABLE 5.6.10.F: BUFFER APPLICATION
Zoning District of   Zoning District of Land Adjacent to Proposed Development
Developing Land [1]  [3] [4] [5]
[2]
                     R1, R2 R4, R6 RMF, OI NC, DTP GC, HC LI, IC, HI
R1, R2               A      None   None    A       A      B
R4, R6               B      A      A       None    A      A
RMF, OI              C      B      A       A       None   None
NC, DTP              D      C      B       A       A      None
GC, HC               D      D      C       B       A      None
LI, IC, HI           D      D      D       D       C      None
Notes:
[1] Development in PD districts is subject to the perimeter buffer
configurations proposed in the applicable planned development master plan.
[2] No perimeter buffers are required in the DTC and DTP districts, but are
required where these districts abut other districts.
[3] A Type A or B perimeter buffer shall not be required when the lot line
abuts unbuildable land within a riparian buffer, the FHO, a Town-designated
tree-save area, a reforestation area, or other Town-designated conservation
area where existing vegetation will not be removed.
[4] In cases where a Type C or D perimeter buffer is required but the lot line
abuts unbuildable land within a riparian buffer, the FHO, a Town-designated
tree-save area, a reforestation area, or other Town-designated conservation
area where existing vegetation will not be removed, the required perimeter
buffer width and amount of required landscaping material may be reduced by 50
percent (see Table 5.6.10.C: Perimeter Buffer Configuration).
[5] Lot lines abutting public street rights-of-way shall be subject to the
standards in Section
5.6.12, Streetscape Buffers.
[6] In cases where development abuts land outside the Town's planning
jurisdiction, only a Type A buffer shall be required along the boundary.
 
   G.   Exemptions. Developments consisting of multiple lots that are planned
and developed as a single, unified, or consolidated project may be configured
so that perimeter buffers are only located around the perimeter of the entire
development instead of between lots within the development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.11.   Foundation Plantings
   A.   Purpose and Intent.
      1.   Foundation plantings provided in accordance with this section are
intended to soften the visual impacts of a building's base or foundation along
any facade visible from a street other than an alley.
      2.   These standards are also intended to provide for the even dispersal
of trees across a development site.
   B.   Applicability. Except where exempted by Section
5.6.11.C, Exemption, these standards shall apply to all new residential,
institutional, and commercial development constructed in the Town after January
1, 2020.
   C.   Exemption. The following forms of development and site locations shall
be exempted from these standards:
      1.   Development existing prior to January 1, 2020, including any
additions or expansions;
      2.   Land uses listed under the Industrial land use classification in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table;
      3.   Helicopter landing pads, telecommunications facilities, and
utilities; and
      4.   Uses where the obstruction of the site or the building constitutes a
danger to public safety in the determination of the Planning Director.
   D.   Required Plant Material.
      1.   Foundation Plantings.
         a.   Evergreen shrubs or decorative grasses with a minimum height of
18 inches shall be located within 10 feet of any building foundation wall
visible from a public street excluding alleys.
         b.   Shrubs shall maintain a maximum on-center placement of three feet
(see
Figure 5.6.11.D.1: Foundation Plantings and Site Landscaping).
         c.   Shrubs are not required in front of steps or access ramps.
      2.   Site Landscaping.
         a.   One canopy tree for every 2,000 square feet of lot area for the
first 20,000 square feet of a lot.
         b.   These trees may be located anywhere on the site except where
limited by Section
5.6.11.E, Placement.
Figure 5.6.11.D.1: Foundation Plantings and Site Landscaping
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-294.jpg]
   E.   Placement. Landscaping material associated with these standards shall
not be located in the following areas:
      1.   Portions of a development site subject to Section
5.10, Screening;
      2.   Areas subject to the standards in Section
5.1.7, Sight Distance Triangles;
      3.   Lands within a utility or drainage easement;
      4.   Lands beneath overhead utilities; or
      5.   Lands within a required stormwater control measure unless the
measure relies on flora to assist with water quality protection.
   F.   Credit from Required Landscaping. Other required landscaping material
or existing vegetation may be credited towards these requirements in cases
where such landscaping material meets the intent of these standards in the
opinion of the Planning Director.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.12.   Streetscape Buffers
   A.   Purpose and Intent. Streetscape buffers are proposed to soften the view
of development from the Town's street rights-of-way, and are intended to:
      1.   Enhance pedestrian orientation and encourage pedestrian travel;
      2.   Address urban heat islands by providing shade for streets and
sidewalks;
      3.   Provide shade on sidewalks;
      4.   Promote the Town's "sense of place";
      5.   Support property values by enhancing the aesthetic character of the
Town's streets; and
      6.   Provide habitat for flora and fauna.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The standards in this section shall apply to all lot lines bounded
by the following features, whether existing or identified in the Town's adopted
policy guidance.
         a.   Collector streets; and
         b.   Arterial streets.
      2.   In cases where a future street is planned but its approximate
location is not indicated on an adopted or approved Town map or plan,
streetscape buffering shall not be required on lots abutting the future street
alignment.
   C.   Exemption. Streetscape buffers are not required in the following
instances:
      1.   When the primary building facade, or the facade with the building's
primary entrance faces and is visible from the arterial or collector street
right-of-way;
      2.   Lot lines abutting platted street rights-of-way that are or have
remained unopened for at least 15 years; or
      3.   Lot frontages where the entirety of the lot frontage is within a
required sight distance triangle.
   D.   Minimum Buffer Width.
      1.   Streetscape buffers shall maintain a minimum width of at least 15
feet from the lot lines subject to these standards.
      2.   Streetscape buffers shall not be located within required sight
distance triangles (see Section
5.1.7, Sight Distance Triangles).
   E.   Required Plant Material. Streetscape buffers shall be configured as a
Type C semi-opaque buffer except that the minimum number of required shrubs is
reduced from 25 to 20, and the on-center spacing is reduced to 5 feet.
Figure 5.6.12: Streetscape Buffer Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-296.jpg]
   F.   Placement.
      1.   Vegetation required as part of a streetscape buffer shall be located
outside the street right-of-way.
      2.   Canopy trees shall be located within ten feet of the right-of-way
edge.
      3.   Understory trees shall be located within five feet of the right-of-
way edge.
      4.   An alternative location may be approved by the Planning Director in
cases where underground utilities, drainage easements, topography, or other
obstructions make placement of streetscape buffer vegetation in accordance with
these standards impractical.
   G.   Prohibited Features. Off-street parking, off-street loading,
merchandise display, or outdoor storage shall not take place within a required
streetscape buffer.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.13.   Street Trees
Except for alleys and lawfully-established half-streets, all Town-maintained
streets shall include street trees along both sides of the street.
   A.   Where Required. Street trees shall be located within tree pits or
planting strips within the street right-of-way (see
Figure 5.6.13: Street Tree Configuration).
   B.   Location.
      1.   Within Tree Pits. In cases where sidewalks, boardwalks, or paving
are located in the right-of-way, street trees shall be located within tree
pits, configured in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   Tree pits shall have a minimum planting area of at least 25
square feet per tree pit;
         b.   Tree pits shall be covered or configured with ground covering at
the same general height as the pedestrian walkway to avoid being a tripping
hazard; and
         c.   Tree pits shall include structural soils or screened backfill to
ensure appropriate drainage and backfill.
      2.   Within Planting Strips. In cases where sidewalks are not present or
where a portion of the right-of-way is not paved, street trees may be placed
within planting strips, configured in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   Tree planting strips shall be configured parallel to the street;
         b.   Tree planting strips shall maintain a minimum width of five feet;
and
         c.   Tree planting strips shall be raised above the sidewalk or
include edging that prevents pedestrians from walking in the planting strip.
   C.   Tree Placement.
      1.   Street trees, when located within tree pits or planting strips,
shall be located so that the trunk is at least two-and-one-half feet from the
back of the curb or the edge of the pavement.
      2.   Street trees shall not be located within sight distance triangles
(see Section
5.1.7, Sight Distance Triangles).
   D.   Types of Trees.
      1.   Except in areas underneath existing overhead utilities or upper
story encroachments into the right-of-way, street trees shall be canopy trees
that meet the standards in Section
5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications.
      2.   In areas beneath existing overhead utilities or upper story
encroachments into the right-of-way, street trees shall be understory trees
that meet the standards in Section
5.6.6: Plant Material Specifications.
   E.   On-Center Spacing.
      1.   Canopy trees shall be planted 45 to 50 feet on-center.
      2.   Understory trees shall be planted 20 to 25 feet on-center.
      3.   Grouping or clustering of street trees shall be prohibited, but on-
center spacing may be reduced as necessary to avoid sight distance triangles,
street furnishings, or other utility conflicts.
Figure 5.6.13: Street Tree Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-298.jpg]
   F.   Compliance with NCDOT Standards. In cases where street trees are
located within street rights-of-way maintained by the NCDOT, street tree
configuration shall be in accordance with NCDOT standards in addition to the
standards in this section. In the event the standards in this section conflict
with applicable NCDOT standards, the NCDOT standards shall control.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.14.   Planting Flexibility
   A.   Credit for Existing Vegetation.
      1.   In order to encourage the preservation of established, healthy
vegetation, credit shall be given towards the landscaping requirements in this
section for preservation of existing trees and shrubs that are pre-existing
within required landscaping areas at a rate of 1.25 times the amount of
existing, healthy vegetation to be retained.
      2.   Credit towards landscaping requirements shall be determined in
accordance with Section
5.9.6, Credit Towards Other Ordinance Requirements.
      3.   Vegetation to be credited towards these requirements shall be
protected in accordance with Section
5.9.5, Tree Protection Devices, before and during development of the site and
maintained thereafter in a healthy growing condition.
   B.   Revisions to Approved Landscape Plans. Due to seasonal planting
problems and/or a lack of plant availability, approved landscape plans may
require minor revisions. Minor revisions to planting plans may be approved by
the Planning Director if:
      1.   There is no reduction in the quantity of plant material.
      2.   There is no significant change in size or location of plant
materials.
      3.   The new plants are of the same general category (i.e., canopy tree,
understory tree, evergreen, or shrub) and have the same general design
characteristics (mature height, crown spread, etc.) as the materials being
replaced.
   C.   Alternative Landscape Plans. An alternate landscape plan that allows
modifications to the requirements of this section may be approved by the
Planning Director in accordance with the following.
      1.   Conditions Justifying Alternative Landscape Plan. Any of the
following natural physical conditions may be used as a justification for an
alternative landscape plan:
         a.   Wetland areas;
         b.   Topography;
         c.   Non-arable soils;
         d.   Difficult or unusual lot configuration;
         e.   Utility, access, drainage, or maintenance easements;
         f.   A desire to retain existing on-site vegetation;
         g.   Natural rock formations;
         h.   Required landscaping areas that are shaded; and
         i.   Impractical situations that would result from application of this
section.
      2.   Intent. To be approved, any alternative landscape plan shall meet
the intent of the applicable planting yard(s) and the purpose and intent of the
landscaping standards of this section.
      3.   Allowable Modifications.
         a.   The following landscape standards may be modified by an alternate
landscape plan.
         i.   The location of required plant materials;
         ii.   The width of required planting areas;
         iii.   The configuration of required plant materials; and
         iv.   The number of required plant materials.
         b.   The alternative landscape plan shall include justification for
the modifications requested, based upon but not limited to, the following:
         i.   The presence or planned location of public utilities,
infrastructure, or easements;
         ii.   The location of existing healthy vegetation or other beneficial
site features to be retained after development;
         iii.   The size, shape, or topographic elevation of the site relative
to the street(s) it abuts; and
         iv.   The need to protect solar access or avoid permanently shaded
areas on the site.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.15.   Time of Installation
   A.   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued, until all required
plant materials have been placed in accordance with the approved site plan and
requirements of this section.
   B.   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a period of 180
days under circumstances that would affect the seeding and planting of the
site, or until the proper planting season is reached to complete the
landscaping requirements, and may be extended up to 90 days upon request to the
Planning Director.
   C.   In cases where a temporary certificate of occupancy is requested, the
applicant shall furnish the following:
      1.   A signed contract for the installation of all required landscape
materials; and
      2.   A performance guarantee for the amount of the contract configured in
accordance with the standards in Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.16.   Required Maintenance
   A.   Responsibility.
      1.   The responsibility for maintenance of required landscaping areas
shall remain with the owner of the property, their successors, heirs, assignees
or any consenting grantee.
      2.   Maintenance is required in order to ensure the proper functioning of
the plantings as a landscaped area which reduces or eliminates nuisance and/or
conflict.
      3.   Failure to adequately maintain required landscaping material is a
violation of this Ordinance subject to the remedies and penalties in
Article 8: Enforcement.
   B.   Maintenance.
      1.   All plantings shall be maintained in an attractive and healthy
condition. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to: watering,
mulching, fertilizing, pest management, mowing, weeding, removal of litter and
dead plant material, and necessary pruning and trimming.
      2.   Necessary pruning and trimming shall be accomplished in accordance
with the Tree Care Industry Association (TCIA) Standards for the Professional
Arborist, and shall not include:
         a.   The topping of trees;
         b.   Removal of 30 percent or more of the crown material in one
calendar year;
         c.   Removal of the central leader; or
         d.   Any other similarly severe procedures that may cause irreparable
harm to the natural form of the tree.
      3.   Dead or diseased plantings shall be removed. Unless specifically
exempted (such as understory trees shaded by canopy trees), replacement
plantings shall be provided for any dead, diseased, or removed vegetation when
such replacement plantings are necessary to meet the standards or this
Ordinance or maintain the screening objective of the landscaping material.
      4.   Landscape structural features such as walls, fences, berms, or water
features shall be maintained in a structurally safe and attractive condition.
      5.   Where other uses, including pedestrian and bicycle accessways, are
allowed within a required landscaping area, these uses shall be maintained to
provide for their safe use.
   C.   Excessive Pruning or Trimming. Pruning or trimming exceeding the TCIA
standards or activities exceeding necessary pruning or trimming as identified
in subsection B above shall be a violation of this Ordinance, and shall require
replacement of damaged vegetation in accordance with Section
5.6.18, Replacement of Required Vegetation.
   D.   Failure to Maintain. Failure to maintain required landscaping areas is
a violation of this Ordinance, in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.17.   Site Inspection
   A.   Post Construction Inspection.
      1.   A permanent certificate of occupancy for any development shall not
be issued unless the landscaping required under this section is installed in
accordance with these standards and in accordance with the approved site plan,
preliminary plat, planned development master plan, or building permit, as
appropriate.
      2.   No person shall refuse entry or access to any staff or authorized
representative of the Town who requests entry for the purpose of inspection,
and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct,
hamper, or interfere with that representative while in the process of carrying
out official duties.
   B.   Follow-Up Inspection. The Planning Director shall inspect the site one
year after the issuance of a permanent certificate of occupancy in order to
ensure compliance with this Ordinance.
   C.   Periodic Inspection.
      1.   The Planning Director may periodically inspect sites subject to the
provisions of this Ordinance. If, through inspection, it is determined that a
site does not comply with the approved site plan, preliminary plat, planned
development master plan, or building permit, a notice to comply shall be served
upon the landowner by registered mail with return receipt or other means by the
Town.
      2.   The notice shall set forth that which will be necessary to comply
with the Ordinance.
      3.   The Town shall have the power to conduct investigations as it may
reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this
Ordinance and for this purpose may enter at reasonable times upon the property,
public or private, for the purpose of inspecting the site(s) subject to the
provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.18.   Replacement of Required Vegetation
   A.   Damage or Removal of Vegetation is a Violation. The damage,
disturbance, or removal of any landscaping area or vegetation required by this
section shall constitute a violation of this Ordinance subject to the remedies
described in
Article 8: Enforcement.
   B.   Replacement Required.
      1.   Any disturbed landscaping areas, areas of preserved existing
vegetation, or required plant material shall be replaced in accordance with the
approved development application and these standards.
      2.   Trees or vegetation that die within one year of construction
completion shall be removed and replaced with new vegetation of equal or
greater size.
      3.   Replacement trees shall be planted within 180 days of removal of
required vegetation.
   C.   Revegetation Plan Required. In cases where required landscaping or
existing vegetation required to be preserved is damaged, disturbed, or removed,
a revegetation plan shall be submitted for review and approval by the Planning
Director, in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Any tree with a caliper of at least eight inches that is damaged or
removed shall be replaced with one or more trees that have a caliper of at
least two and one-half (2 1/2) inches and a cumulative caliper equal to or
greater than the original tree.
      2.   Trees damaged or destroyed less than eight inches in diameter shall
be replaced to satisfy the performance criteria of this section.
      3.   Shrubs may also be required to restore the landscaping performance
criteria for the disturbed area.
   D.   Location of Replacement Trees and Vegetation.
      1.   Replanting shall be located within the vicinity of the violation.
      2.   If the area is too small for sufficient growth, a more suitable
location on the site may be selected, as permitted by the Planning Director.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.6.19.   Stormwater Control Measure (SCM) Landscaping
   In cases when a stormwater control measure is constructed and improved for
active outdoor recreation space, a landscape plan shall be provided subject to
the following conditions.
   A.   Area surrounding the SCM shall be landscaped to the Type A buffer
standard per Table 5.6.10.C unless otherwise restricted based on engineering or
State of North Carolina requirements.
   B.   Shrubs may be clustered if a combination of canopy and understory
streets are planted.
   C.   Plantings within the pond area shall meet the recommendations of the NC
State Extension Office for Stormwater Wetland Construction.
(Ord. 2022-41, passed 5-2-2022)
5.7. OPEN SPACE
5.7.1.   How to Use These Standards
   A.   Developments subject to these open space set-aside standards (see
Section
5.7.3, Applicability) shall provide the minimum amount of open space set-aside
required for the zoning district where located as identified in
Article 3: Districts.
   B.   The physical amount of open space to be set aside within a particular
development is a percentage of total development size. These percentage
requirements is found in the dimensional standards tables for the zoning
districts in
Article 3: Districts. There is no limitation on the provision of additional
open space set-aside beyond the minimum specified in
Article 3: Districts.
   C.   Once the minimum amount of open space set-aside to be provided is
determined, the type of open space set-aside, if specified, should also be
determined.
   D.   Applicants should consult Section
5.7.5, Open Space Set-Aside Configuration, in order to understand any
applicable design requirements or prohibited features.
   E.   The required amount of open space set-aside may be reduced based on the
provision of sustainable development features in accordance with Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives, or other aspects of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.7.2.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this section is to help ensure the provision and maintenance of
open space resources that encourage recreation and the gathering of Town
residents and visitors. These standards are further intended to:
   A.   Establish the standards under which residential, mixed-use, and
nonresidential development shall set aside a portion of the development area as
open space;
   B.   Distinguish between the characteristics, requirements, and appropriate
locations for open space set-asides, based on the zoning district designation;
and
   C.   Establish minimum ownership and maintenance standards for homeowner and
property owner associations related to open space set-asides.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.7.3.   Applicability
   A.   Generally.
      1.   Unless exempted in accordance with Section
5.7.3.C, Exemptions, the standards in this section shall apply to all new
development and redevelopment in the City.
      2.   Redevelopment conducted after January 1, 2020, shall comply with the
standards in this section, to the maximum extent practicable, and shall provide
its pro rata share of open space set-aside.
   B.   Conservation Subdivisions. Open space set-asides associated with a
conservation subdivision shall be subject to the standards in Section
6.2, Conservation Subdivision, in addition to these standards. In the event of
a conflict, the standards in Section
6.2, Conservation Subdivision, shall control.
   C.   Exemptions. The following forms of development shall be exempted from
the standards in this section:
      1.   Development of an individual single-family dwelling (including
manufactured homes) on lots platted prior to January 1, 2020;
      2.   Subdivisions comprised solely of four or fewer lots where all lots
intended for single-family detached residential dwellings;
      3.   Development located within the LI, IC, HI, and DTC districts.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.7.4.   Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Requirements
   A.   Amount.
      1.   The minimum required amount of open-space set-aside, as a percentage
of a development's size, shall be provided in accordance with the
Table 5.7.4.A: Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Required.
      2.   Nothing shall limit the provision of a greater minimum percentage or
other type of open space set-aside, provided the minimum requirements in this
section are met.
Table 5.7.4.A: Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Required
                  Amount of Open     Open Space Set-Aside Composition [3] [4]
Type of Land Use  Space Set-Aside
[1]               Required (% of     Min. % Active Min. % Passive Min. % Urban
                  development area)
                  [2]
Table 5.7.4.A: Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Required
                Amount of Open  Open Space Set-Aside Composition [3] [4]
Type of Land    Space Set-Aside
Use [1]         Required (% of  Min. % Active   Min. % Passive Min. % Urban
                development
                area) [2]
Residential,                    At least 25%                   Up to 50% when
Single-Family   10              when outside of No minimum     inside OI or DTP
Detached                        OI or DTC       requirement    districts
                                districts
Residential,                    At least 50%                   At least 50%
All Use Types   10              when outside of No minimum     when inside OI
Except Single-                  OI or DTC       requirement    or DTP districts
Family Detached                 districts
Institutional,                                  No minimum     Up to 100% when
Other Than      8               No requirement  requirement    inside OI or DTP
Utility-Related                                                districts
Institutional,  None Required   N/A
Utility-Related
                                At least 25%                   Up to 100% when
Mixed-Use, with 5               when outside of No minimum     inside OI or DTP
Residential                     OI & DTC        requirement    districts
                                districts
Mixed-Use, no                   No minimum      No minimum     Up to 100% when
Residential     3               requirement     requirement    inside OI or DTP
                                                               districts
                                No minimum      No minimum     Up to 100% when
Commercial      3               requirement     requirement    inside OI or DTP
                                                               districts
Industrial      None Required   N/A
Agricultural    None Required   N/A
NOTES:
[1] Determined based on the Use Classification listing in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table.
[2] Applied at the time of subdivision or site plan if subdivision is not
required.
[31 See Section
5.7.5, Open Space Set-Aside Configuration, for details on the distinctions
between active, passive, and urban set-aside.
[4] In cases where the total amount of open space set-aside is insufficient to
be useable in the opinion of the Planning Director, the Town may accept a fee-
in-lieu (see Section
6.3, Fee-in-Lieu).
 
   B.   Type.
      1.   Unless otherwise indicated in the appropriate dimensional standards
table in
Article 3: Districts, open space set-aside shall be configured in accordance
with the standards in Section
5.7.5.A, Passive Open Space Set-Aside.
      2.   In cases where development must configure open space set-aside with
active recreation features, it shall be configured in accordance with Section
5.7.5.B, Active Open Space Set-Aside.
      3.   In cases where open space set-aside shall be configured as urban, it
shall be configured in accordance with Section
5.7.5, Open Space Set-Aside Configuration.
      4.   Except in instances where open space set-aside must be configured
for active recreation, nothing shall limit development from configuring
required open space set-aside in accordance with the standards in Section
5.7.5.C, Urban Open Space Set-Aside.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.7.5   Open Space Set-Aside Configuration
Open space set-asides shall be configured in accordance with the following
standards.
   A.   Passive Open Space Set-Aside. Passive open space set-asides are
intended to provide land area that is undeveloped, or that is developed with
low-intensity recreational features (such as those for walking or sitting),
landscaping, replacement trees, or stormwater management features that are
configured as a site amenity (see
Figure 5.7.5.D: Types of Open Space).
      1.   Allowable Features. The land area occupied by any of the following
types of features is credited towards required passive open space set-aside:
         a.   Walking, bicycling, and equestrian trails;
         b.   Boardwalks;
         c.   Gardens and greenway trails;
         d.   Benches and seating areas;
         e.   Tables, shelters, grills, and related picnicking facilities;
         f.   Lawn areas and community greens;
         g.   Lakes, ponds, wetlands, swamps, canals, and streams;
         h.   Piers and docks for fishing or viewing wildlife; and
         i.   Undisturbed land subject to a deed restriction or conservation
easement.
      2.   Site Features Credited Towards Passive Open Space Set Aside
Requirements.
         a.   The following site features shall be credited towards passive
open space set-aside requirements:
            i.   Required landscaping areas;
            ii.   Reforestation areas;
            iii.   Tree protection areas;
            iv.   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers designated 404 wetlands;
            v.   Riparian buffer areas;
               vi.   Natural heritage areas; and
         vii.   Land area occupied by stormwater management facilities,
including retention ponds, fully vegetated detention basins, and other bio-
retention devices, provided these facilities are treated as a site amenity.
         b.   In order to be considered a site amenity that is credited towards
passive open space set-aside requirements, stormwater management facilities
shall include all the following:
            i.   Pedestrian access to the facility;
            ii.   Gentle slopes of three-to-one (3:1) or less;
            iii.   Pedestrian elements such as paths, benches, and similar
aspects to and around the facility; and
            iv.   Vegetation, whether planted or retained.
   B.   Active Open Space Set-Aside. Active open space set-asides provide for
active recreational needs of the residents or visitors they serve. Active
features include fields and courts as well as built structures (see
Figure 5.7.5.D: Types of Open Space). Active open space set-asides shall meet
the following standards:
      1.   Configuration.
         a.   Lands set aside as active open space set-aside shall be compact
and contiguous unless the land is used as a continuation of an existing trail,
or specific natural or topographic features require a different configuration.
         b.   Active open space set-aside areas shall be located so as to be
readily accessible and useable by residents and users of the development.
         c.   Where possible, a portion of the open space set-aside should
provide focal points for the development.
         d.   Where the development site is adjacent to existing or planned
trails, parks, or other public open area land, the open space set-aside shall,
to the maximum extent practicable, be located to adjoin, extend, and enlarge
the trail, park, or other open area (see
Figure 5.7.5.B.1.d: Open Space Continuation).
Figure 5.7.5.B.1.d: Open Space Continuation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-300.jpg]
      2.   Allowable Features. The following types of features are allowable in
and credited towards active open space set-asides:
         a.   Swimming pools, splash pads, and areas devoted to water play for
children;
         b.   Athletic fields and courts;
         c.   Boat launches and swimming platforms;
         d.   Club houses;
         e.   Playgrounds and play structures for children; and
         f.   Obstacle courses and exercise trails.
   C.   Urban Open Space Set-Aside. Urban open space set-asides provide formal
or informal gathering areas for people or locations for vegetation or
stormwater uptake within urbanized portions of the Town's jurisdiction. Urban
open space can include outdoor dining areas, building atriums with plants and
seating, or green roofs (see
Figure 5.7.5.D: Types of Open Space).
      1.   Allowable Features. The following types of features are allowable in
urban open space set-asides:
         a.   Plazas and courtyards;
         b.   Roof gardens;
         c.   Indoor atriums with plantings and seating that are open to the
general public;
         d.   Outdoor dining areas;
         e.   Fountains; and
         f.   Areas devoted to public gathering.
   D.   Within Conservation Subdivisions. Open space set-asides within
conservation subdivisions may include any of the features allowed in active,
passive, or urban
open space set-aside areas in addition to farm fields, forestry lands, or lands
used for agricultural purposes.
Figure 5.7.5.D: Types of Open Space
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-302.jpg]
   E.   Features Not Credited Towards Open Space Set-Aside. The following areas
shall not be included in or credited towards any open space set-aside
requirements:
      1.   Private yards not subject to a deed restriction or conservation
easement;
      2.   Street rights-of-way;
      3.   Parking areas and driveways for dwellings or other uses;
      4.   Land covered by structures not designated for active recreational
uses;
      5.   On-site wastewater treatment facilities, including septic tank drain
fields;
      6.   Stormwater management features not configured as a site amenity; and
      7.   Designated outdoor storage areas.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.7.6.   Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides
Open space set-asides are intended to remain under private ownership while
being available for use to residents and visitors in the development where
located. Ownership of open space set-aside shall remain with the owner of the
land, except in the following circumstances.
   A.   Homeowners' or Property Owners' Association. All open space set-aside
areas may be owned jointly or in common by the owners of the development
through a recognized homeowners' or property owners' association, which shall
be established in accordance with Section
6.5, Owners' Associations.
   B.   Nonprofit Organization. The landowners may decide to convey an open
space set-aside to a nonprofit organization such as a land trust or land
conservancy for management and maintenance if the Town is provided adequate
assurance the set-aside will be properly managed and maintained.
   C.   Dedicated to Town or Other Public Agency. In some cases, certain lands
designated as open space set-asides, such as wildlife habitat or greenways, may
be dedicated to the Town or other public agency during the development review
process. The Board of Commissioners shall determine which lands and under what
conditions open space set-asides may be dedicated to the Town or other public
agency.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.7.7.   Maintenance of Open Space Set-Asides
   A.   The owner of the land shall be responsible for maintenance of all open
space set-aside areas (including land, vegetation, private infrastructure,
greenways, and other features) in accordance with this Ordinance and any
conditions of approval associated with the development.
   B.   Failure to maintain open space set-aside areas is a violation of this
Ordinance subject to the remedies and penalties in
Article 8: Enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.   PARKING AND LOADING
5.8.1.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this section is to ensure provision of off-street parking and
loading facilities in proportion to the generalized parking, loading, and
transportation demand of the different uses allowed by this Ordinance. The
standards are further intended to:
   A.   Provide for adequate off-street parking, off-street loading, and safe
movement of vehicles into, out of, and through parking areas;
   B.   Allow for flexibility to accommodate alternative solutions to off-
street parking and loading needs, where such flexibility is consistent with the
Town's adopted policy guidance;
   C.   Reduce the aesthetic impact of surface parking lots in gateway
corridors, downtown, and mixed-use areas through standards addressing on-site
parking lot locations;
   D.   Avoid excessive paved surface areas and the resulting problems
associated with stormwater runoff and urban heat islands; and
   E.   Protecting compatibility between adjacent uses of land and historic
resources.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.2.   Applicability
The standards in this section shall apply to all development in the Town's
planning jurisdiction, unless exempted in accordance with Section
5.8.3, Exemptions.
   A.   Generally. Whenever a building is constructed, an open-air use of land
is conducted, or a principal or accessory use is established, the development
shall meet the requirements of this section.
   B.   Additions and Expansions. Whenever a building, open air use of land, or
principal or accessory use is enlarged or increased in capacity, the
development shall comply with the requirements in Section
7.4, Nonconforming Sites.
   C.   Changes in Use.
      1.   If the principal use changes, then the new principal use shall meet
the requirements of this section, except that if the use change results in an
increase of less than five percent in the required number of parking spaces, or
less than two additional parking spaces, no additional parking spaces are
required.
      2.   In cases where an existing parking lot does not comply with the
parking lot configuration requirements of this section, changes in use shall
require the parking lot's configuration to be brought into compliance with
these standards to the maximum extent practicable.
   D.   Pre-Existing Development. Lawfully-established off-street parking and
loading areas established prior to January 1, 2020, that do not comply with
these standards shall be subject to the applicable standards in
Article 7: Nonconformities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.3.   Exemptions
   A.   The following forms of development are exempt from the requirements of
this section:
      1.   Lawfully-established lots of record existing prior to January 1,
2020, that are 33 feet wide or less, contain a single-family detached
residential structure, and are not served by an alley;
      2.   Re-striping an existing parking lot which does not create a
deficient number of parking spaces or a nonconforming situation; and
      3.   Rehabilitation or re-use of an historic structure in an LHO
district.
   B.   Development located in the DTC and DTP districts is exempted from the
minimum off-street parking requirements in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table, but any off-
street parking spaces shall comply with the standards in Section
5.8.5, Parking Lot Configuration, and development is subject to the other
standards in this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.4.   Off-Street Parking Requirements
   A.   Parking Plan Required. Every application for a site plan or building
permit shall include a parking plan or plot plan drawn to scale and fully-
dimensioned as necessary in order to demonstrate compliance with the standards
in this Ordinance.
   B.   Minimum Off-Street Parking Spaces Required.
      1.   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for
development shall be in accordance with
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
      2.   Off-street parking shall be provided to meet the parking demand
without the use of streets, except as specifically allowed by this section.
   C.   Off-Street Parking Space Maximum.
      1.   Retail use types subject to the standards in Section
5.3.1.G, Standards for Large Format Retail Uses, shall limit the total number
of off-street parking spaces provided to not more than 125 percent of the
minimum parking spaces required in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
      2.   Deviations from this standard may be requested in accordance with
Section
5.8.11, Parking Alternatives.
   D.   Use Type Not Listed.
      1.   For use types that do not correspond to the use types listed in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table, any one of the
following actions may be taken as part of determining the applicable off-street
parking requirements:
         a.   The applicant may provide a parking study for the use(s) prepared
by a professional engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina;
         b.   The applicant may propose a text amendment to this UDO in
accordance with Section
2.2.20, UDO Text Amendment;
         c.   The applicant may request a formal interpretation of these off-
street parking standards in accordance with Section
2.2.12, Interpretation; or
         d.   The Planning Director may determine the minimum parking space
requirement based on a similar use in accordance with the standards of this
Ordinance.
      2.   In cases where the applicant desires the Planning Director to make a
determination, the application shall provide adequate information for review,
which includes, but is not limited to: the type of use(s), number of employees,
the availability of transit, the occupancy of the building, square feet of
sales, service and office area, parking spaces proposed, and hours of
operation.
   E.   Developments with Multiple Use Types or Lots.
      1.   Development containing more than one principal use shall provide the
minimum number of off-street parking spaces in an amount equal to the total
required for all individual principal uses in the development, except as
allowed by Section
5.8.11, Parking Alternatives.
      2.   Developments consisting of multiple lots that are planned and
developed as a single, unified, or consolidated project may be configured to
locate a portion of the required parking for one lot on another in the same
development as allowed by Section
5.8.11, Parking Alternatives.
   F.   Use of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces.
      1.   Off-street parking areas used for any of the following vehicles are
not credited towards the minimum number of required off-street parking spaces
in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table, and such vehicles
shell be located outside required off-street parking spaces and any street
right-of-way:
         a.   Vehicles for sale or lease;
         b.   Vehicles being stored, serviced, or repaired; or
         c.   Vehicles belonging to the use, such as company vehicles.
      2.   Required off-street parking spaces shall not be used for any purpose
other than the temporary parking of operable vehicles.
      3.   In no instance shall motor vehicle servicing or repair of a vehicle
take place within a required off-street parking space except for washing and
emergency service necessary to start the vehicle.
   G.   Driveways Used to Meet Parking Requirements.
      1.   Driveways may be used to accommodate required off-street parking
spaces only for the following uses:
         a.   Boarding/rooming houses;
         b.   Duplex dwellings;
         c.   Cemeteries;
         d.   Family care homes;
         e.   Group homes;
         f.   Live/work dwellings;
         g.   Manufactured dwellings;
         h.   Mobile homes;
         i.   Single-family attached dwellings when located in developments of
six or fewer dwellings;
         j.   Single-family detached dwellings, including those in bungalow
courts and pocket neighborhoods; and
         k.   Triplex/quadplex dwellings.
      2.   Driveways shall be of sufficient size to accommodate all the off-
street parking spaces required by
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table. In no instance
shall accommodation of vehicle parking in accordance with this subsection
result in parked vehicles protruding into or over street rights-of-way,
sidewalks, greenways, required sight distance triangles, areas used for refuse
collection, or required landscaping areas.
   H.   Minimum Off-street Parking Requirements Table.
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                             Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                     Parking Spaces [1][2]
Residential Use Types
Assisted Living Facility             1 per employee on the largest shift + 0.25
                                     per bed
Boarding/Rooming House               2 + 1 per each rental room
Bungalow Court                       1 + 0.25 guest spaces per dwelling unit
                                     1.5 per every individual dwelling unit + 1
Continuing Care Retirement Community per every employee on the largest shift +
                                     per every 200 sf used by the public
Duplex Dwelling                      2 per every dwelling unit
Family Care Home                     2 + 1 per bedroom
Group Home                           2 + 1 per bedroom
Halfway House                        2 per bedroom
Live/Work Dwelling                   2 + 1 per every 500 sf of non-residential
                                     floor area
Manufactured Dwelling                2 per dwelling unit
Manufactured Dwelling Park           2 per every home site
Mobile Home                          2 per dwelling unit
Mobile Home Park                     2 per every mobile home site
Multi-Family Dwelling                1.5 per every dwelling unit + 0.25 guest
                                     spaces per unit
Pocket Neighborhood                  1 + 0.25 guest spaces per dwelling unit
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                            Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                    Parking Spaces [1][2]
Nursing Home                        1 per employee on largest shift + 0.25 per
                                    bed
Single-Family Attached Dwelling     2 per every dwelling unit + 0.25 guest
                                    spaces per unit
Single-Family Detached Dwelling     2 per dwelling unit + 0.25 guest spaces per
                                    unit
Triplex/Quadriplex                  2 per every dwelling unit
Upper-Story Residential             1 per dwelling unit
Institutional Use Types
Adult Day Care Center               1 + 1 per every employee on largest shift
Airport and Related Facilities      1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
                                    every 600 sf not used by the public [3]
Antenna Collocation, Major          None
Antenna Collocation, Minor          None
Arboretum or Formal Garden          1 per employee on largest shift + 1 per
                                    5,000 sf of garden area
                                    Greater of: 1 per every 4 seats or 1 per
Auditorium                          every 40 sf of seating area with moveable
                                    seating
Blood/Tissue Collection             1 per every 200 sf
Broadcasting Studio                 1 per every 2 employees
Cemetery, Columbarium, or Mausoleum 1 per employee on the largest shift
Child Day Care Center               1 per every employee + 1 per every 10
                                    children
College or University               5 per every classroom and office
Community/Youth/Senior Center       1 per every 300 sf
Community Garden                    None
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                              Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                      Parking Spaces [1][2]
                                      Greater of: 1 per every 4 seats or 1 per
Coliseum or Arena                     every 40 sf of seating area with moveable
                                      seating
                                      Greater of: 1 per every 4 seats or 1 per
Conference or Convention Center       every 40 sf of seating area with moveable
                                      seating
Cultural Facility, Library, or Museum 1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
                                      every 600 sf not used by the public
Drug/Alcohol Treatment                Greater of: 1 per every 400 sf or 1 per
                                      bed
Fire/EMS/Police Station               1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
                                      every 600 sf not used by the public
Fraternal Club or Lodge               1 per every 300 sf
Government Office                     1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
                                      every 600 sf not used by the public
Government Maintenance, Storage,      1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
Distribution                          every 600 sf not used by the public
Helicopter Landing Pad                2 per landing pad
Hospital                              1 per every 2 beds + 1 per every doctor
                                      and nurse + 1 per every 4 other employees
Indoor Private Recreation             1 per every 200 sf
Outdoor Private Recreation            1 per every 1,000 sf of activity area
Park (public or private)              1 per employee on largest shift + 1 per
                                      acre
Passenger Terminal (rail or bus)      1 per every 200 sf [3]
Post Office                           1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
                                      every 600 sf not used by the public
Psychiatric Treatment Facility        1 per every 3 patient beds
                                      Greater of: 1 per every 6 seats or 1 per
Religious Institution                 every 50 sf of floor area in main
                                      assembly room
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                               Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                       Parking Spaces [1][2]
School, Elementary                     1 per employee
School, High/Middle                    5 per every classroom and office
School, Vocational                     5 per every classroom and office
Small Wireless Facility                None
Telecommunications Tower, Major        None
Telecommunications Tower, Minor or     None
Concealed
Temporary Wireless Facility            None
Urgent Care Facility                   1 per employee on the largest shift + 1
                                       per every 300 sf
Utility, Major                         1 per every 1,500 sf
Utility, Minor                         None
Commercial Use Types
ABC Store                              1 per every 250 sf
Adult Business                         1 per every 150 sf
Aircraft Parts, Sales, and Maintenance 1 per every 600 sf
Animal Day Care/Grooming               1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1
                                       per every 600 sf not used by the public
Animal Shelter                         1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1
                                       per every 600 sf not used by the public
Auction House                          1 per every 300 sf of seating area + 1
                                       per employee
Automobile Repair and Servicing        2 + 1 per every service bay
(without painting/bodywork)
Automobile Sales and Rentals           1 per every 200 sf
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                               Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                       Parking Spaces [1][2]
Automotive Painting/Body Shop          2 + 1 per every service bay
Automotive Parts and Accessories Sales 1 per every 200 sf
Automotive Wrecker Yard                1 per employee on the largest shift
Bar, Cocktail Lounge, or Private Club  1 per every 150 sf
Bed and Breakfast                      2 + 1 per every rental unit
Boat and Marine Rental, Sales, and     1 per every 600 sf
Service
Bottle Shop (with on premise           1 per every 4 seats
consumption)
Business Incubator                     1 per every 450 sf
Campground                             1 + 1 per every camping space
Car Wash or Automobile Detailing       2 per every washing bay
Catering Establishment                 1 per every 300 sf
Check Cashing/Payday Lending           1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1
Establishment                          per every 600 sf not used by the public
Clothing Rental                        1 per every 200 sf
Coffee Shop                            1 per every 150 sf
Commercial Recreation, Indoor          1 per every 200 sf
Commercial Recreation, Outdoor         1 per every 1,000 sf of activity area
                                       (including building sf)
Computer-Related Services              1 per every 600 sf
Convenience Store (no gasoline sales)  1 per every 200 sf
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                                Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                        Parking Spaces [1][2]
Convenience Store (with gasoline sales) 1 per every 200 sf
Co-Working Space                        1 per every 250 sf
Equipment and Tool Rental               1 per every 600 sf
Event Venue                             1 per every 150 sf
Fairgrounds                             1 per every 600 sf of use area
Financial Services Establishment        1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1
                                        per every 600 sf not used by the public
Flea Market                             1 per every 200 sf
                                        Greater of: 1 per every 200 sf used by
Funeral-Related Services                public, or 1 per every 4 seats in
                                        chapel
Games of Skill                          1 per every 200 sf
Golf Course or Driving Range            1 per every 4 persons of design
                                        capacity or 2 + 1 per every tee
Grocery Store                           1 per every 250 sf
Gymnasium/Fitness Center                1 per every 200 sf
Hair, Nails, and Skin-Related Services  1 per every 200 sf
Heavy Equipment Sales, Rental, and      1 per every 600 sf
Repair
Hotel or Motel                          5 + 1 per every rental unit
Kennel, Indoor/Outdoor                  1 per every 200 sf
Laundry or Cleaning Service             1 per every 200 sf used by the public
Microbrewery, Microwinery, or           1 per every 150 sf
Microdistillery
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                               Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                       Parking Spaces [1][2]
Nightclub or Dance Hall                1 per every 150 sf
Office, Medical                        4 per every doctor/practitioner
Office, Professional                   1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1
                                       per every 600 sf not used by the public
Office, Sales or Service               1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1
                                       per every 600 sf not used by the public
Outdoor Storage                        1 + 1 per employee on largest shift
Package and Printing Service           1 per every 200 sf
Park and Ride Facility                 1 per employee on the largest shift
Parking Lot                            1 per employee on largest shift
Parking Structure                      1 per employee on largest shift
Pharmacy                               1 per every 200 sf
Pool Hall                              1 per every 150 sf
Racetrack                              1 per every 4 persons of design capacity
Recreational Vehicle Park              1 per employee on largest shift + 0.25
                                       per every recreational vehicle space
Repair Shop                            1 per every 600 sf
Restaurant, Indoor/Outdoor Seating     1 per every 4 seats
Restaurant with Drive-Through/Drive-Up 1 per every 4 seats
Service
Restaurant, Walk-Up Only               1 per employee on largest shift + 1 per
                                       every two outdoor seating locations
Retail, Bulky Item                     1 per every 600 sf
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                              Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                      Parking Spaces [1][2]
Retail, Large Format                  1 per every 200 sf
Retail Use, Other                     1 per every 200 sf
Self Service Storage, External Access 1 + 1 per employee on largest shift
Only
Self Service Storage, Internal Access 1 per every 5,000 sf
Only
Shooting Range, Indoor                1 per firing station + 3
Specialty Eating Establishment        1 per every 4 seats
Tattoo and Piercing Establishment     1 per every 600 sf
                                      Greater of: 1 per every 4 seats or 1 per
Theatre                               every 40 sf of seating area with moveable
                                      seating
Truck Stop                            1 per every 200 sf + separate truck/
                                      trailer parking
Veterinary Clinic                     4 per every doctor
Industrial Use Types
Asphalt or Concrete Plant             2 per every 3 employees on major shift
Contractor Services/Yard              Greater of: 1 per every 300 sf or 1 per
                                      every 1,000 sf of outdoor area
Electrical, Plastic, or Plumbing      2 per every 3 employees on major shift
Fabrication
Extractive Industry                   1 + 1 per employee on largest shift
Flex Space                            1 per every 200 sf
Fuel Oil/Bottled Gas Distributor      1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per
                                      employee on largest shift
Gas Energy Conversion                 1 + 1 per employee on largest shift
General Industrial Services           2 per every 3 employees on major shift
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type                           Minimum Number of Required Off-Street
                                   Parking Spaces [1][2]
Landfill                           2 + 1 per employee on largest shift
Makerspace                         1 per every 400 sf
Manufacturing, Heavy               2 per every 3 employees on largest shift
Manufacturing, Light               2 per every 3 employees on largest shift
Metal Fabrication                  2 per every 3 employees on major shift
Public Convenience Center/Transfer 10 + 1 per employee on the largest shift
Station
Recycling Center                   1 per every 1,000 sf (min. of 2 spaces)
Research and Development           1 per every 300 sf of office area + 1 per
                                   every 500 sf of other floor area
Salvage or Junkyard                3 + 1 per employee on the largest shift
Solar Farm                         None
Truck or Freight Terminal          2 per every 3 employees on largest shift
Warehouse, Distribution            2 per every 3 employees on largest shift
Warehouse, Storage                 2 per every 3 employees on largest shift
Waste Composting                   1 per employee on the largest shift
Wholesale Sales                    1 per every 900 sf
Wind Energy Conversion             None
Agricultural Use Types
Agriculture and Horticulture       1 per every 1,500 sf of principal building
                                   floor area
Agriculture Support Services       1 per every 800 sf of principal building
                                   floor area
Animal Husbandry                   1 per every 2,000 sf of principal building
                                   floor area
 
 
TABLE 5.8.4.H: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Type        Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces [1][2]
Farmer's Market 1 per every 300 sf
Plant Nursery   5 + 1 per employee on the largest shift
Notes:
[l] See Section
9.3.11 Parking Space Computation, for details on how required parking spaces
are computed.
[2] "sf" means square feet.
[3] Does not include long-term parking for travelers.
[4] Excludes bona fide farm uses.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021)
5.8.5.   Parking Lot Configuration
Except for driveways credited towards these parking standards in Section
5.8.4.G, Driveways Used to Meet Parking Requirements, or parking areas subject
to an approved alternative parking plan (see Section
5.8.11, Parking Alternatives) all parking lots shall comply with the following
standards:
   A.   General.
      1.   All required off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the principal use they serve, except as allowed in Section
5.8.11, Parking Alternatives.
      2.   Required off-street parking shall be maintained for the duration of
the principal use and shall not be reduced unless the principal use ceases or
changes.
      3.   Except where allowed by this Ordinance, off-street parking spaces
shall not be located in any required landscaping or stormwater management area.
      4.   Off-street parking spaces shall not protrude into any street, fire
lane, drive aisle, sidewalk, greenway, or pedestrian connection.
   B.   Dimensional Standards for Parking Spaces and Aisles. Off-street parking
spaces and drive aisles serving them shall comply with the minimum dimensional
standards established in
Table 5.8.5.B: Dimensional Standards for Off-Street Parking Spaces, and
Figure 9.3.11.F: Parking Space and Access Aisle Dimensions.
TABLE 5.8.5.B: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES
                    Minimum Width  Minimum Depth  Minimum Aisle Width (feet)
Type of Parking [1] (feet)         (feet)         [2]
                                                  One Way Two Way [3]
TABLE 5.8.5.B: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES
                    Minimum Width  Minimum Depth  Minimum Aisle Width (feet)
Type of Parking [1] (feet)         (feet)         [2]
                                                  One Way Two Way [3]
Parallel (0°)      9              20             13      19
Angled (30°)       10             19             12      20
Angled (45°)       10             19             13      21
Angled (60°)       10             19             18      23
Perpendicular (90°)9              19             20      24
Compact             8.5            18             20      24
Notes:
[1] All off-street parking spaces shall remain unobstructed from grade level
to a height of at least 6 ½ feet above the parking space's grade level.
[2] Minimum aisle width shall be measured from edge-of-pavement to edge-of-
pavement, and shall not include gutters or curbing.
[3] The Town may require one direction of travel to maintain a wider width
than the other direction.
 
   C.   Minimum Parking Lot Stem Length. All vehicular accessways serving off-
street parking lots shall comply with the standards in Section
5.1.6.F Minimum Parking Lot Stem Length.
   D.   Parking Space Access.
      1.   All off-street parking spaces shall be accessed directly from drive
aisles or private driveways and not directly from arterial or collector
streets.
      2.   All off-street parking areas shall be designed with an appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that allows for safe
vehicular movements.
   E.   Vehicle Backing. Vehicular use areas shall be designed so that a
vehicle is not required to back onto a street to enter or exit the parking lot,
a parking space, or a stacking space.
   F.   Surface Materials.
      1.   Except for use types identified in subsection (3) below, all off-
street parking spaces, accessible parking spaces, drive aisles, and vehicular
use areas shall be paved and maintained with concrete, asphalt, or similar
material of sufficient thickness and consistency to support anticipated traffic
volumes and weights (see
Figure O: Parking Lot Surface Materials).
      2.   The use of pervious or semi-pervious materials may be approved as
part of an alternative parking plan (see Section
5.8.11, Parking Alternatives), provided it is demonstrated that the materials
will function in a similar fashion as required materials.
      3.   Required off-street parking spaces (excluding accessible parking
spaces), drive aisles, and vehicular use areas may be constructed with gravel
or other approved comparable all-weather surface for the following:
         a.   Parking used on an irregular basis for religious institutions,
private clubs or lodges, and other similar nonprofit organizations;
         b.   Parking for a bed and breakfast establishment where six or fewer
spaces are required; and
         c.   Parking for an office use converted from a single-family detached
dwelling where four or fewer spaces are required.
      4.   Configuration of parking lots in accordance with low impact
development practices (see
Table 5.12.6: Menu of Sustainable Development Practices) is encouraged.
Figure O: Parking Lot Surface Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-304.jpg]
   G.   Grading and Drainage.
      1.   The parking lot shall be graded, properly drained, stabilized, and
maintained to minimize dust and erosion.
      2.   Parking lots shall not impound stormwater unless surface impoundment
is required as a method of stormwater management. However, in no instance shall
surface impoundment result in a fewer number of parking spaces than required by
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
      3.   Parking lots shall not drain onto or across public sidewalks, or
into adjacent property except into a natural watercourse or a drainage easement
unless alternative provisions for drainage are proposed and accepted by the
Planning Director.
   H.   Pedestrian Walkways. Pedestrian walkways between the principal
buildings on a development site and a sidewalk or other pedestrian way (like a
greenway trail) shall be provided in accordance with Section
5.1, Access and Circulation.
   I.   Markings. All parking spaces and lanes in parking lots shall be clearly
delineated with paint lines, curbs, or other treatment.
   J.   Curbs and Wheel Stops. All off-street parking spaces provided in
accordance with
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table, shall have curbs
or wheel stops located so that no part of the parked vehicle extends onto or
over a sidewalk, walkway of six feet in width or less, adjacent property, or
landscape area, whether the vehicular use area is paved or unpaved.
   K.   Separation from Fire Protection Facilities.
      1.   No required off-street parking space shall be located within 15 feet
of a fire hydrant or other fire protection facility.
      2.   Parking shall not take place within designated fire lanes or other
areas demarcated for fire protection.
   L.   Exterior Lighting.
      1.   Exterior lighting in parking lots shall be designed to provide
illumination of parking lot areas for the purposes of safe vehicle and
pedestrian circulation.
      2.   Exterior lighting within a parking lot shall be configured to
prevent glare or illumination exceeding maximum allowable levels on adjacent
land and shall comply with the standards of Section
5.4, Exterior Lighting, as appropriate.
   M.   Landscaping. Parking lot landscaping shall be provided in accordance
with Section
5.6, Landscaping.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
5.8.6.   Accessible Parking Spaces
Accessible parking spaces for the disabled are required for all forms of
development except single-family detached dwellings, and shall meet the
following criteria:
   A.   Configuration. Handicapped parking spaces shall be in accordance with
the regulations set forth by the Americans with Disabilities Act and the North
Carolina Building Code.
   B.   Number Provided. Accessible (handicapped) parking spaces shall be
provided in accordance with the North Carolina Building Code requirements.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.7.   Guest Parking Spaces
   A.   Multi-family, single-family attached, and mixed-use development shall
provide 0.25 guest parking spaces per residential unit.
   B.   New single-family detached residential developments shall provide guest
parking spaces at a rate of 0.25 spaces per dwelling.
   C.   In cases when guest parking is provided, it shall be in a central
location, well lit, served by pedestrian access, located no farther than 1,320
feet from the dwelling units it serves, and within a common area, either within
the right-of-way in marked on-street parking spaces or within an HOA controlled
area.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2022-19, passed 10-4-2021)
5.8.8.   Compact Parking Spaces
   A.   Compact car off-street parking spaces with a minimum width of 8.5 feet
and a minimum depth of 18 feet may be provided for up to 30 percent of the
minimum parking requirements in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table.
   B.   In no instance shall the minimum size of a compact parking space be
further reduced through an alternative parking plan, administrative adjustment,
conditional rezoning application, or other flexibility mechanism in this
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.9.   Stacking Spaces
   A.   General. Uses with drive-through facilities and other auto-oriented
uses where vehicles queue up to access a service shall provide adequate
stacking spaces on-site for the uses or buildings in accordance with
Table 5.8.9.A: Stacking Spaces Required.
TABLE 5.8.9.A: STACKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use of Activity Minimum # of Stacking Spaces Origin Point for Measurement
                Required
TABLE 5.8.9.A: STACKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use of Activity            Minimum # of Stacking    Origin Point for
                           Spaces Required          Measurement
Assisted living facility   3                        Building entrance adjacent
and nursing home                                    to stacking spaces
Automated teller machine   2                        Teller machine
(drive through)
Automobile repair and
servicing/automotive       1 per bay                Bay entrance
painting or body shop
Car wash or automobile     1 per bay for manual car Bay/wash process entrance
detailing                  washes, otherwise 3
Child day care center      2                        Building entrance adjacent
                                                    to stacking spaces
Convenience store with     1                        Each end of the outermost
gasoline sales                                      gas pump
Coffee shop with a drive   [1]                      [1]
through
Equipment and tool rental  2                        Security gate
Financial services with a  3 per lane               Agent window
drive through
Funeral-related service    2                        Building entrance adjacent
                                                    to stacking spaces
Gasoline sales, whether as                          Each end of the outermost
a principal or accessory   1                        gas pump
use
 
TABLE 5.8.9.A: STACKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use of Activity Minimum # of Stacking Spaces Origin Point for Measurement
                Required
TABLE 5.8.9.A: STACKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use of Activity             Minimum # of Stacking Origin Point for Measurement
                            Spaces Required
Heavy equipment sales,      2 [2]                 Security gate
rental, and repair
Hospital                    4                     Building entrance adjacent
                                                  to stacking spaces
Hotel or motel              2                     Building entrance adjacent
                                                  to stacking spaces
Laundry and cleaning                              Agent window or door
service with a drive        3                     intended for service to
through                                           vehicles
Outpatient treatment        4                     Building entrance adjacent
facility                                          to stacking spaces
Pharmacy with a drive       3 per lane            Agent window
through
Post office                 2                     Each mailbox intended for
                                                  access via automobile
Public convenience center/  5                     Front edge of scale
transfer station
Restaurant with a drive     [1]                   [1]
through
School (elementary, middle, 3                     Building entrance adjacent
or high school)                                   to stacking spaces
Truck of freight terminal   1 [3]                 Security gate
Notes:
[1] Stacking spaces shall be provided in accordance with a stacking space
needs study prepared for the specific use type proposed and in accordance with
the business model and local experience of similar establishments and authored
by professional engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina.
[2] The stacking space shall be of sufficient length to accommodate a trailer
attached to a cab.
[3] Subject to the standards for gasoline sales if provided to individual
passenger automobiles.
 
   B.   Design. Stacking spaces are subject to the following design and layout
standards (see
Figure 5.8.9.B: Stacking Spaces):
      1.   Size. Stacking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet wide and 25
feet long.
      2.   Traffic Movements. Required stacking spaces shall not impede
vehicular traffic movements or movements into or out of parking spaces, whether
on-site or off-site.
      3.   Bicycle and Pedestrian Movement. Required stacking spaces shall not
impede on-site or off-site bicycle or pedestrian traffic movements, whether on-
site or off-site.
Figure 5.8.9.B: Stacking Spaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-306.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.10.   Bicycle Parking
Bicycle parking shall be provided in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Bicycle parking facilities shall be provided on all new commercial,
mixed-use, multi-family, and institutional use types served by 20 or more off-
street parking spaces for vehicles.
      2.   Bicycle parking shall not be required for industrial use types.
   B.   Rate of Provision. Bicycle parking spaces shall be provided at a rate
of one bicycle parking space for every 20 off-street parking spaces for
automobiles. Nothing shall limit the provision of more bicycle parking spaces
than are otherwise required.
   C.   Configuration.
      1.   Bicycle parking should be accessible to the primary entrances of the
development and located in a visible, well-lit area (see
Figure 5.8.10: Bicycle Parking).
Figure 5.8.10: Bicycle Parking
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-308.jpg]
      2.   Bicycle parking shall be served by a pedestrian walkway connecting
the bicycle parking to the closest primary building entrance.
      3.   Bicycle parking shall be located where it does not interfere with
pedestrian traffic and is protected from conflicts with vehicular traffic.
      4.   Bicycle parking may be accommodated within street setback areas.
      5.   A bicycle rack or other device shall be provided to enable bicycles
to be secured.
   D.   Shared Parking Spaces. Nothing shall limit uses on the same block face
from establishing shared or consolidated bicycle parking spaces in central or
mid-block locations, provided there are sufficient bicycle parking spaces for
all uses sharing the required bicycle parking.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.11.   Parking Alternatives
Development may deviate from the off-street parking requirements in this
section through the requirements and procedures in Section
2.2.1, Administrative Adjustment, and Section
2.2.21, Variance, or through approval of an alternative parking plan accepted
by the Planning Director and configured in accordance with the following:
   A.   Deviation from Required Minimum. An applicant may propose a reduced
rate of provision for off-street parking less than that specified in
Table 5.8.4.H, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements Table, in accordance
with a parking study prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the State
of North Carolina. The parking study shall document why fewer spaces than
required will be adequate while still protecting the public's health, safety,
and welfare.
   B.   Provision over the Maximum Allowed. An applicant proposing development
subject to the standards in Section
5.8.4.C, Off-Street Parking Space Maximum, may propose a total number of off-
street parking spaces that exceeds the maximum allowed only through the
provision of a parking study prepared by a professional engineer licensed by
the State of North Carolina. The parking study shall document why the provision
of off-street parking spaces beyond the maximum authorized is necessary for the
public's health, safety, or welfare.
   C.   Off-Site Parking. Up to 50 percent of off-street parking space
requirements for an existing building may be met by locating required parking
in an off-site location, in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   The off-site parking is located within 1,000 feet from the use it
serves, as measured from the entrance of the use to the nearest off-site
parking space.
      2.   A sidewalk or paved pedestrian walkway is provided to the off-site
parking area from the use.
      3.   In cases where the off-site parking is located on land under
separate ownership from the use it serves, the off-site parking shall be
subject to a written agreement executed by the owners involved and filed with
the Planning Director prior to the use of off-site parking facilities. The
agreement shall guarantee the long-term availability of the off-site parking in
question.
      4.   Should an off-site parking agreement cease, then the use shall be
considered a nonconformity subject to the standards in
Article 7: Nonconformities, unless the use is brought into compliance with the
minimum off-street parking requirements of this section.
   D.   Shared Parking. The required off-street parking for a use may be met
with shared use of the required off-street parking spaces of another use, only
in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   The use of shared off-street parking spaces shall be subject to a
shared parking agreement executed by the landowners of the uses involved,
approved by the Planning Director, and recorded in the office of the Wake
County Register of Deeds.
      2.   The shared parking agreement shall guarantee the long-term
availability of the shared parking spaces in question. Nothing shall limit the
percentage of required off-street parking spaces that may be provided through a
shared parking agreement.
      3.   The shared parking is located within 1,000 feet, as measured from
the entrance of the use to the nearest shared parking space.
      4.   A sidewalk or paved pedestrian walkway is provided to the shared
parking area from the use.
      5.   The uses served by the shared parking must have different peak
parking demands, differences in hours or days of operation, or otherwise
operate such that the uses sharing parking have access to the required minimum
number of off-street parking spaces when in operation.
      6.   Should the shared parking agreement cease, then the use(s) formerly
served by shared parking shall be considered a nonconformity subject to the
standards in
Article 7: Nonconformities, unless the use(s) is brought into compliance with
the minimum off-street parking requirements of this section.
   E.   Alternative Surfacing. The use of pervious or semi-pervious parking
area surfacing materials—including, but not limited to, "grass-crete,"
"turfstone," cellular reinforced paving systems, porous concrete, crushed
stone, or recycled materials such as glass, rubber, used asphalt, brick, block,
and concrete—may be proposed for required off-street parking spaces, drive
aisles, or vehicular surface areas on a site, provided such areas are properly
maintained. Where possible, such materials should only be used in areas
proximate to and in combination with on-site stormwater control mechanisms or
tree protection measures.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.8.12.   Off-Street Loading
   A.   Loading Facilities Required. Every application for a non-residential
use shall ensure that adequate off-street loading facilities are provided so
that loading vehicles do not occupy required off-street parking spaces, block
vehicular access, or prevent appropriate on-site maneuvering.
   B.   Minimum Off-Street Loading Space Requirements.
      1.   A minimum number of off-street loading spaces is not established;
however, if off-street loading spaces are provided, they shall be provided and
maintained in sufficient numbers to adequately handle the needs of a non-
residential use.
      2.   Failure to provide or maintain off-street loading spaces when they
are necessary to serve the development is a violation of this Ordinance.
      3.   In no instance shall an off-street loading space occupy a required
off-street parking space or interrupt the safe operation of vehicles or
circulation of pedestrian or bicycles.
      4.   Each off-street loading space shall be designed with an appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that will least
interfere with traffic circulation.
   C.   Location. No off-street loading space shall be located within a
required setback or within 30 feet of a street intersection.
   D.   Dimensional Standards for Loading Spaces. When off-street loading
spaces are provided, they shall comply with the following minimum requirements
(see
Figure 5.8.12.D: Off-Street Loading Spaces):
      1.   Except for loading spaces used by semi-tractor trailers, off-street
loading spaces shall be at least 10 feet wide and at least 30 feet long.
      2.   Off-street loading spaces used by semi-tractor trailers shall be at
least 70 feet long.
      3.   Overhead clearance for an off-street loading space shall be at least
15 feet.
      4.   Off-street loading spaces shall be designed so that no backing onto
or from a public street is necessary.
Figure 5.8.12.D: Off-Street Loading Spaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-310.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.   REFORESTATION
5.9.1.   Purpose and Intent
This section is proposed to ensure that the Town's planning jurisdiction
includes areas of mature tree canopy cover during and after development. These
standards are further intended to:
   A.   Promote sequestration of carbon dioxide through the establishment of
new trees or the retention of existing trees on lots following the development
process;
   B.   Protect species diversity and habitat through the establishment of
connected or linked areas of protected urban forest;
   C.   Encourage the retention of existing trees during the development
process through accelerated credit towards landscaping requirements; and
   D.   Establish tree protection requirements for trees voluntarily proposed
for retention during the development process.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.2.   Applicability
Unless exempted in accordance with Section
5.9.3, Exemptions, the standards in this section shall apply to all lands and
development, including subdivisions of land for single-family detached
residential dwellings, in the Town's planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.3.   Exemptions
The following activities are exempt from the standards of this section:
   A.   Activity on a bona fide farm;
   B.   Tree removal associated with normal forestry activity that is
conducted:
      1.   On land taxed on the basis of its present-use value as forestland
pursuant to Chapter 105, Article 12 of the North Carolina General Statutes; or
      2.   In accordance with a forest management plan prepared or approved by
a forester registered in accordance with Chapter 89B of the North Carolina
General Statutes;
   C.   Development or redevelopment within the DTC and DTP districts;
   D.   Development or redevelopment within the LHO district;
   E.   Construction of an individual single-family detached home on its own
lot; and
   F.   Construction of an individual duplex dwelling on one or two individual
lots.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.4.   Requirements
   A.   Generally. New development subject to these standards shall either
reforest a portion of the development site after construction in accordance
with the standards in Section
5.9.4.B, Reforestation Standards, or shall retain existing trees on the site in
accordance with the standards in Section
5.9.4.C, Tree Retention Standards.
   B.   Reforestation Standards.
      1.   Amount. Development seeking to meet the standards of this section
through reforestation shall identify and reserve a portion of the development
site corresponding to at least five percent of the site's total developable
area.
      2.   Location. The preferred location(s) for reforestation areas on an
individual development site are listed in the following priority order (see
Figure 5.9.4.B.2: Reforestation Location):
         a.   Areas adjoining unbuildable lands such as riparian buffers,
wetlands, steep slopes, or lands within a floodway;
         b.   Areas that directly abut reforestation areas on adjoining lots;
         c.   Areas adjacent to existing forest land on adjoining lots;
         d.   Areas adjacent to parks or conservation lands on adjoining lots;
         e.   Areas within the flood fringe on the same lot; or
         f.   Other areas as determined by the Planning Director.
      3.   Configuration.
         a.   Species.
            i.   Trees shall be native or local to Wake County and should be of
a variety that can be expected to survive for at least 25 years under normal
conditions.
            ii.   Nuisance species, such as the Tree of Heaven, Mimosa,
Bradford Pear, or Chinese Tallowtree shall not be included in reforestation
areas.
         b.   Species Diversity. Trees provided as part of reforestation
activity shall be comprised of at least three different species, and differing
species shall be interspersed throughout the reforestation planting area.
         c.   Mature Heights. Trees proposed for planting in a reforestation
area shall have a range of heights at maturity.
         d.   Minimum Size at Time of Planting. Trees proposed for planting
shall be from containerized stock. Bare-root stock is not recommended, and use
of seeds or cuttings is prohibited.
         e.   Spacing.
            i.   Newly planted trees shall be planted to follow contours of
land and not planted in rows so as to avoid the appearance of being planted.
            ii.   Trees shall be located at least six feet from one another and
from the edge of the reforestation area boundary, but no greater than eight
feet from one another or the reforestation area boundary.
         f.   Minimum Number of Trees Required. Trees shall be planted at a
rate to ensure uniform coverage throughout the reforestation area based on the
maximum spacing requirements.
         g.   Contiguity.
            i.   Reforestation areas shall be contiguous and shall not be
separated from one another on a lot or development site of less than 30 acres
in size.
            ii.   In cases where reforestation is proposed on a lot or site of
more than 30 acres in size, individual reforestation areas may occupy two or
more separate locations, provided that each individual reforestation area is at
least one-half acre in area.
         h.   Within a Residential Subdivision. When required as part of a
subdivision of land for residential purposes, a reforestation area shall be
located outside the boundary of individual building lots.
Figure 5.9.4.B.2: Reforestation Location
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-312.jpg]
   C.   Tree Retention Standards. Retention of existing trees on a development
site, in accordance with the following standards, may be proposed as an
alternative to the reforestation requirements in Section
5.9.4.B, Reforestation Standards.
      1.   Amount. The number of existing trees to be retained during and after
development shall be the minimum necessary to ensure that at least five percent
of the total buildable area of the lot or site is located beneath existing tree
canopy.
      2.   Configuration. The portion of the site to be retained under tree
canopy shall be compact and contiguous, to the maximum extent practicable (see
Figure 5.9.4.B.3: Tree Canopy Retention).
      3.   Location. The tree canopy retention area shall be located away from
areas proposed for grading or the installation of impervious surface.
      4.   Within a Residential Subdivision. When required as part of a
subdivision of land for residential purposes, a reforestation area shall be
located outside the boundary of individual building lots.
      5.   Size of Retained Trees.
         a.   Only the tree canopy associated with trees of four inches in DBH
or larger shall be credited towards the tree retention standards.
         b.   An applicant shall not be required to submit a tree survey unless
trees within the retention area are proposed for credit towards the
requirements in Section
5.6, Landscaping.
      6.   Compliance with Tree Protection Device Standards. In cases where a
development is proposing retention of existing trees as a means of compliance
with these reforestation standards, the area of tree retention shall be
surrounded by tree protection devices during the construction process in
accordance with Section
5.9.5, Tree Protection Devices.
Figure 5.9.4.B.3: Tree Canopy Retention
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-314.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.5.   Tree Protection Devices
   A.   Responsibility. During any development activity (including demolition
activity) on a lot or site containing trees to be retained for credit towards
reforestation requirements or to be credited towards requirements in Section
5.6, Landscaping, the landowner or developer shall be responsible for
protecting existing trees to be retained in accordance with the standards in
this section.
   B.   Protective Fencing and Signage.
      1.   Protective Fencing.
         a.   Continuous fencing consisting of a bright orange plastic mesh at
least four feet high shall be provided along the driplines of trees to be
retained for credit towards any Ordinance requirements (see
Figure 5.9.5: Tree Protection Devices).
         b.   Retained trees that are inaccessible to development activities or
separated from all development activities by a distance of at least 300 linear
feet are exempted from the requirement for tree protection fencing.
      2.   Warning Signage.
         a.   Warning signs shall be installed along any required tree
protective fencing.
         b.   The signs shall be clearly visible from all sides around the
outside of the fenced-in area.
         c.   The size of each sign must be a minimum of two feet by two feet.
         d.   The sign message shall, in both English and Spanish, identify the
fenced or marked area as a tree protection area and direct construction workers
not to encroach into the area (e.g., "Tree Protection Area: Do Not Enter"). For
the purposes of this Ordinance, these warning signs are considered government
signs exempted from First Amendment protections regarding regulation of sign
content.
Figure 5.9.5: Tree Protection Devices
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-316.jpg]
   C.   Duration of Protective Fencing and Signage. Required protective fencing
and signage shall be erected before any grading or other development activity
begins and shall be maintained until issuance of a certificate of occupancy
following completion of all development in the immediate area of the fencing or
signage.
   D.   Tree Protection Requirements.
      1.   No development activity—including grade changes, the operation or
parking of heavy equipment, or the washing down of concrete or cement handling
equipment, or the storage of fuel, chemicals, materials, supplies, or
construction waste and debris—shall be allowed within areas surrounded by tree
protection fencing.
      2.   No structures or hard surfaces shall be located within areas
surrounded by tree protection fencing.
      3.   Retaining walls and drywells may be used to protect trees to be
preserved from severe grade changes if venting adequate to allow air and water
to reach tree roots is provided through any fill.
   E.   Damage or Death of a Protected Tree. If a violation of this section
occurs and a protected tree is removed or dies within two years after a
certificate of occupancy is granted for that portion of a development where the
tree is or was located, then the landowner, owners' association, or occupancy
permit recipient, or their successor, as
appropriate, shall be required to install replacement trees at the rate
necessary to re-establish the tree canopy coverage requirements.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.6.   Credit Towards Other Ordinance Requirements
   A.   Open Space Set-Aside. Land area devoted to reforestation or to the
retention of existing trees during and after development activity shall be
credited towards any passive open space set-aside requirements in Section
5.7.4, Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Requirements.
   B.   Required Landscaping.
      1.   Existing healthy, well-formed canopy and understory trees that are
retained on site during and after development shall be credited toward the
minimum landscaping requirements in Section
5.6, Landscaping, provided:
         a.   The vegetation to be credited shall meet the minimum size
standards for required landscaping;
         b.   The vegetation to be credited conforms with all species
requirements and does not include noxious weeds or other nuisance vegetation;
         c.   The vegetation to be credited is protected before and during
development in accordance with Section
5.9.5: Tree Protection Devices, prior to the start of any land-disturbing
activities; and
         d.   The location of the existing vegetation contributes to the
screening or buffering functions of the landscaping.
      2.   As an incentive for retention of existing trees, existing trees
meeting the standards in (A) above that are retained during and after
development shall be credited towards the minimum landscaping requirements in
this Ordinance at a rate of 1.25 times the tree's actual caliper or diameter at
breast height.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.9.7.   Maintenance
   A.   Reforestation and tree retention areas are intended to remain
undisturbed by clearing or development. Any disturbance of these areas shall be
a violation of this Ordinance in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement.
   B.   Trees located within reforestation or tree retention areas are intended
to remain until their natural death. In the event of disease or the creation of
an unsafe situation, the Planning Director may allow selective clearing or
removal of trees subject to an approved replanting plan.(Ord. 2020-36, passed
12-2-2019)
5.10.   SCREENING
5.10.1.   Purpose and Intent
These standards are intended to reduce the visual and auditory impact upon
adjacent lots and the public realm from certain site features and activities
occurring on individual nonresidential, multi-family and mixed use lots. In
addition to mitigating negative impacts, these standards are also proposed to
enhance the aesthetics of development in the Town's planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.10.2.   Using These Standards
   A.   These standards identify a series of use types, site features, and
activities that are required to be screened from off-site views (see Section
5.10.3, Applicability, and Section
5.10.4, Exemptions).
   B.   The standards establish a series of screening methods organized into
differing levels (e.g., Level 1 through Level 10). The higher the screening
method's level number, the greater its opacity, or its ability to obscure a
particular site feature from off-site view (see
Table 5.10.5, Screening Methods).
   C.   The standards identify which methods of screening may be used to screen
a site feature or activity from view from a particular location, such as an
adjacent street or abutting lot with residential zoning (see
Table 5.10.6, Views to Be Screened). Nothing prohibits a landowner from using a
more intense or opaque screening technique than is required by
Table 5.10.6, Views to Be Screened.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.10.3.   Applicability
   A.   Generally. Unless exempted in accordance with Section
5.10.4, Exemptions, the standards in this section apply to the following site
features and activities for all development in the Town's planning
jurisdiction:
      1.   Refuse collection containers of more than 100 gallons in size;
      2.   Recycling containers of more than 100 gallons in size, including
cardboard recycling containers;
      3.   Waste and cardboard compactors;
      4.   Ground-based mechanical equipment, including but not limited to
wireless telecommunications equipment, permanently-mounted electrical
generators, compressors, climate control equipment, breaker panels, meters,
electrical service risers, and similar equipment;
      5.   Roof-mounted equipment of any kind;
      6.   Above ground storage tanks for gases, solids, or liquids;
      7.   Outdoor equipment storage or repair areas;
      8.   Outdoor storage of raw, or semi-finished materials (including
tires), or finished products for sale;
      9.   Impounded vehicles and equipment;
      10.   Vehicles and equipment being repaired; and
      11.   Inoperable vehicles being used for parts.
   B.   Pre-Existing Development. Lawfully-established development established
prior to January 1, 2020, that is subject to, but that does not comply with
these standards shall be subject to applicable the standards in
Article 7: Nonconformities.
   C.   Expansions or Remodeling. All expansions or remodeling of principal
buildings or open uses of land existing on or before January 1, 2020, shall
comply with these standards, subject to the requirements in Section
7.4, Nonconforming Sites.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.10.4.   Exemptions
The following items ore exempted from the screening requirements of this
section:
   A.   Any of the features listed in sub-section 5.10.3.A above that are
located entirely within a building;
   B.   Refuse collection containers serving individual single-family detached,
single-family attached, duplex, triplex, or quadplex dwellings;
   C.   Utility meters, whether wall or ground mounted;
   D.   Small wireless facilities;
   E.   Roof-mounted solar energy or wind energy conversion devices;
   F.   Transformers and similar devices serving electric vehicle charging
stations;
   G.   Family health care structures;
   H.   Outdoor display/sales as a principal or accessory use subject to an
approved building permit; and
   I.   Outdoor seasonal sales and portable storage containers subject to an
approved temporary use permit (see Section
2.2.19, Temporary Use Permit) and Section
4.5, Temporary Uses.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.10.5.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
   A.   Items or activities subject to the requirements in this section shall
be fully screened from one or more off-site views in accordance with Section
5.10.6, Views to Be Screened, using one of the allowable methods identified in
Table 5.10.5, Screening Methods.
   B.   
Table 5.10.5, Screening Methods, sets out the various methods for screening
site features and activities subject to these standards. Screening, when
required, shall comply with the configuration requirements listed below.
   C.   In the event a ground-based site feature or activity to be screened
exceeds a height of eight feet above grade, evergreen understory trees
configured in accordance with the standards for Screening Level 2 shall be
included as part of any required screening method.
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening Requirements
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening                        Requirements
1. Screening Level 1:                     Understory Tree Hedgerow
                                          a.   All trees shall be of the same species and all shrubs shall be of an
                                          evergreen species.
                                          b.   A hedgerow shall include one row of evergreen understory trees and one row
                                          of evergreen shrubs.
                                          c.   The hedgerow shall include plants capable of providing a fully opaque
                                          screen of at least 36 inches in depth from the grade to the minimum height
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        required.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ d.   Trees shall maintain an on-center spacing of no greater than 60 inches.
IMAGES/0-0-0-318.jpg]                     Shrubs shall maintain an on-center spacing of no greater than 48 inches.
                                          e.   Trees shall be of a minimum height necessary at time of planting to
                                          achieve a minimum height of 8 feet above grade within 3 years.
                                          f.   Shrubs shall be of a minimum height necessary at time of planting to
                                          achieve a minimum height of 6 feet above grade within 3 years.
                                          g.   If damaged in a manner that impairs the performance of the screening,
                                          vegetative material shall be promptly replaced.
 
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening Requirements
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening                        Requirements
2. Screening Level 2:                     Evergreen Shrub Hedge
                                          a.   All shrubs shall be evergreen and of the same species.
                                          b.   The screening material shall be configured as two staggered rows of shrubs
                                          that together form a hedge.
                                          c.   The screening shall maintain a minimum width of at least 36 inches at the
                                          time of planting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        d.   Shrubs shall be capable of providing a fully opaque screen of at least 36
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ inches in depth from the grade to the minimum height required.
IMAGES/0-0-0-320.jpg]                     e.   Shrub rows shall be planted no more than 30 inches apart.
                                          f.   Shrubs shall maintain an on-center spacing of no greater than 36 inches.
                                          g.   Shrubs shall be of a minimum height necessary at time of planting to achieve
                                          a minimum height of 6 feet above grade within 3 years.
                                          h.   If damaged in a manner that impairs the performance of the screening,
                                          vegetative material shall be promptly replaced.
3. Screening Level 3:                     Chain Link Fence with Opaque Slats/Fabric
                                          a.   Fencing must be configured in accordance 5.3.H.2, Fences and Walls.
                                          b.   All fencing shall maintain the minimum height necessary to fully screen the
                                          site feature or activity.
                                          c.   Fencing shall be at least 60 percent opaque, when viewed from a distance of
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        ten feet or more.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ d.   All gates shall maintain a complimentary level of opacity excluding gaps for
IMAGES/0-0-0-322.jpg]                     mounting hardware, latches, and hinges.
                                          e.   Slats or fabric shall extend downwards to the grade.
                                          f.   The fence and screening material shall be comprised of consistent materials
                                          and shall maintain a single color.
                                          g.   Slats may be plastic or wood and shall be promptly repaired if damaged in a
                                          manner that reduces the screening function.
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening Requirements
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening                        Requirements
4. Screening Level 4:                     Building Wall Projection
                                          a.   Building wall projections must be attached to a principal or accessory
                                          structure.
                                          b.   All walls shall maintain the minimum height necessary to fully screen the
                                          site feature or activity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        c.   The wall shall be comprised of consistent materials and colors to those used
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ on the principal or accessory structure.
IMAGES/0-0-0-324.jpg]                     d.   Building walls may incorporate louvers, grates, or similar features,
                                          provided the screening function is maintained.
                                          e.   All gates shall be comprised of a complimentary material and be opaque
                                          excluding gaps for mounting hardware, latches, and hinges.
                                          f.   Screening materials shall be promptly repaired if damaged in a manner that
                                          reduces the screening function.
5. Screening Level 5:                     Wooden Opaque Fence
                                          a.   Fencing shall be configured in accordance 5.3.H.2, Fences and Walls, and the
                                          North Carolina Building Code.
                                          b.   All fencing shall maintain the minimum height necessary to fully screen the
                                          site feature or activity, but shall not exceed a maximum height of 8 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        c.   All gates shall maintain a complimentary level of opacity excluding gaps for
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ mounting hardware, latches, and hinges.
IMAGES/0-0-0-326.jpg]                     d.   The fence shall be comprised of consistent materials and colors.
                                          e.   Enclosures for refuse and recycling containers shall meet all applicable
                                          City requirements.
                                          f.   Screening material shall be promptly repaired if damaged in a manner that
                                          reduces the screening function.
 
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening Requirements
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening                        Requirements
6. Screening Level 6:                     Opaque Masonry Wall
                                          a.   Walls shall be configured in accordance 5.3.H.2, Fences and Walls.
                                          b.   All walls shall maintain the minimum height necessary to fully screen the
                                          site feature or activity, but shall not exceed a maximum height of 8 feet.
                                          c.   The wall shall be comprised of consistent materials and colors to those used
                                          on the principal structure.
                                          d.   Masonry walls may incorporate louvers or similar features provided the
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        screening function is maintained.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ e.   All gates shall be comprised of a complimentary material and be opaque,
IMAGES/0-0-0-328.jpg]                     excluding gaps for mounting hardware, latches, and hinges.
                                          f.   Support columns may exceed the maximum height as necessary for wall
                                          construction.
                                          g.   Enclosures for refuse and recycling containers shall meet all applicable
                                          City requirements.
                                          h.   Screening material shall be promptly repaired if damaged in a manner that
                                          reduces the screening function.
7. Screening Level 7:                     Berms and Mounds
                                          a.   Berms shall be configured in accordance with the standards in Section
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        5.3.H.1, Berms.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ b.   Nothing shall limit the use of retaining walls, as necessary.
IMAGES/0-0-0-330.jpg]                     c.   Berms shall be supplemented with walls, fencing, or vegetation as necessary
                                          to meet screening objectives.
8. Screening Level 8:                     Concealment by Other On-Site Structures
                                          a.   Site features and activities subject to these standards may be screened by
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        other permanent buildings or structures on the same lot.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ b.   Buildings or structures used to provide screening shall be permanent and
IMAGES/0-0-0-332.jpg]                     shall be of a minimum height necessary to provide required screening.
                                          (note: red circle in photo added for clarity)
 
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening Requirements
TABLE 5.10.5: SCREENING METHODS
Level of Screening                        Requirements
9. Screening Level 9:                     Roof Screening
                                          a.   Roof screening shall be 100 percent opaque, and shall only be used to
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        screen items on a roof.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ b.   Roof screening shall extend the minimum height necessary to fully screen
IMAGES/0-0-0-334.jpg]                     roof-mounted equipment as seen at grade from any lot line.
                                          c.   Roof-mounted equipment on pitched roofs shall be located on the side of the
                                          roof least visible from the street, to the maximum extent practicable.
10. Screening Level 10:                   Parapet Wall
                                          a.   Parapet walls shall be comprised of the same exterior material or be the
                                          same color as the building and shall be capped with a cornice, coping, or other
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        decorative molding.
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/ b.   Parapet walls shall be in alignment with the exterior building wall below.
IMAGES/0-0-0-336.jpg]                     c.   Parapet walls shall extend above the roof deck the minimum height necessary
                                          to screen roof-mounted equipment as seen from grade-level at the lot line.
                                          d.   Parapet walls shall be engineered to comply with all applicable North
                                          Carolina Building Code requirements, including wind loading.
Notes:
[1] Screening provided in accordance with this section shall be credited towards perimeter buffer and parking lot
landscaping requirements (see Section
5.6, Landscaping) when the screening methods contribute to the performance objective of required landscaping.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.10.6.   Views to Be Screened
Site features and activities subject to these standards shall be screened from
identified locations in
Table 5.10.6, Views to Be Screened. The level of screening provided is at the
applicant or landowner's discretion, provided it meets or exceeds the minimum
screening level specified in the table below.
TABLE 5.10.6: VIEWS TO BE SCREENED
               Required Screening Level, by Location
               From an         From Abutting
Feature or     Abutting Public Land in a        From Abutting   From Abutting
Activity to Be Street,         Residential or   Land in a       Land in an
Screened       Sidewalk,       Mixed-Use Zoning Commercial      Industrial
               Greenway, or    District         Zoning District Zoning District
               Open Space
TABLE 5.10.6: VIEWS TO BE SCREENED
                Required Screening Level, by Location
                From an         From Abutting
Feature or      Abutting Public Land in a       From Abutting   From Abutting
Activity to Be  Street,         Residential or  Land in a       Land in an
Screened        Sidewalk,       Mixed-Use       Commercial      Industrial
                Greenway, or    Zoning District Zoning District Zoning District
                Open Space
Refuse or
Recycling       4 or higher     3 or higher     1 or higher     1 or higher
Containers or
Compactors
Ground-Based
Mechanical      3 or higher     2 or higher     1 or higher     1 or higher
Equipment
Roof-Mounted    10              9 or higher                     1 or higher
Equipment
Above Ground    4 or higher     3 or higher     1 or higher     1 or higher
Storage Tanks
Outdoor
Equipment       4 or higher     3 or higher     2 or higher     1 or higher
Storage or
Repair
Outdoor Storage
of Raw or Semi- 3 or higher                     2 or higher     1 or higher
Finished
Materials
Outdoor Storage
of Finished     1 or higher     2 or higher     1 or higher     1 or higher
Products for
Sale
Impounded
Vehicles and
Equipment
Vehicles and
Equipment Being 4 or higher     5 or higher     3 or higher     1 or higher
Repaired
Inoperable
Vehicles Being
Used for Parts
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.   SIGNAGE
5.11.1.   Section Organization
   A.   These signage standards are comprised of eight subsections that address
the purpose and intent of these regulations, the types of signage subject to or
excluded from these regulations, the prohibited forms of signage, a subsection
on general standards applied to all forms of signage subject to these
regulations, a subsection on removal of dilapidated or obsolete signage, and a
subsection that sets out a series of standards applied to each specific type of
sign.
   B.   The subsection on general standards applied to all forms of signage
(see Section
5.11.6, General Standards Applicable to All Signs) addresses the following
topics:
      1.   Sign permit requirements;
      2.   Distinctions for public art and murals;
      3.   Allowance for signs in the right-of-way;
      4.   Prohibited sign locations;
      5.   How signage is measured;
      6.   Changeable copy;
      7.   Sign illumination;
      8.   Structural configuration; and
      9.   Maintenance of signage.
   C.   The subsection on standards applied to specific types of signs (see
Section
5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type) is organized into standardized tables that
establish the standards for the following types of signs:
      1.   Awning Signs;
      2.   Banners;
      3.   Electronic Message Boards;
      4.   Flags;
      5.   Ground (or monument or pedestal) Signs;
      6.   Incidental Signs;
      7.   Political Signs;
      8.   Projecting Signs;
      9.   Sidewalk Signs;
      10.   Subdivision Signs;
      11.   Supplemental Signs;
      12.   Suspended Signs;
      13.   Wall Signs; and
      14.   Window Signs.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.2.   Purpose and Intent
This section provides guidance and standards for signage across the Town's
planning jurisdiction. The erection and maintenance of signs is controlled and
regulated in order to promote the health, safety, welfare, convenience, and
enjoyment of travel on streets and sidewalks. These provisions are also
intended to balance between the promotion of beneficial commerce and the
protection of community character. More specifically, these standards are
intended to:
   A.   Promote traffic safety;
   B.   Avoid interference with protected free speech;
   C.   Regulate the content of signs to the least extent possible and only
when absolutely necessary to protect health and safety;
   D.   Regulate off-premise signage in accordance with federal jurisprudence;
   E.   Ensure that any content-based signage standards serve a compelling
public purpose and are as narrowly-tailored as possible;
   F.   Promote economic development and beneficial commerce;
   G.   Ensure residents and visitors can locate desired goods, services, and
destinations;
   H.   Avoid conflicts between advertising and public safety signage;
   I.   Reflect the aesthetic character and design quality anticipated in the
Town's adopted policy guidance; and
   J.   Minimize any detrimental effects of signage on adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.3.   Applicability
Except for the sign types exempted from these standards identified in Section
5.11.4, Exclusions, all signs shall be constructed, erected, affixed, placed,
posted, painted, repainted, hung, or otherwise established only in accordance
with the standards in this section and Section
2.2.16, Sign Permit.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.4.   Exclusions
The following forms of signage shall not be subject to these signage standards,
but may be subject to other applicable standards in this Ordinance, such as the
requirement to obtain a building permit. Applicants shall be responsible for
securing all required permits prior to erecting or modifying any of the
following forms of excluded signage:
   A.   Fence-wrap signs affixed to fences surrounding a construction site in
accordance with the standards in Section 160D-908 of the North Carolina General
Statutes;
   B.   Legal notices required by governmental bodies, public utilities, or
civic associations;
   C.   Governmental signage, including flags, street signs, traffic warning
signs, and other signage provided solely for public health and safety;
   D.   Building cornerstones, historical plaques, or grave markers;
   E.   Signage associated with public transit stops;
   F.   Holiday displays on lots within all zoning districts;
   G.   Signage that is not visible from any off-site areas (e.g., entirely
enclosed by opaque walls that prevent the visibility of signage from any off-
site areas); and
   H.   Signage associated with off-street parking spaces or the prohibition of
parking in certain locations like fire lanes, bus lanes, or loading zones.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
5.11.5.   Prohibited Sign Types
The following signs, sign construction, and displays are prohibited throughout
the Town's planning jurisdiction:
   A.   Off-premise signs or signage that advertises goods or services provided
on a different lot, tract, or site from where the sign is located, provided
that this prohibition shall not apply to subdivision signs configured in
accordance with the applicable standards in Section
5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type;
   B.   Outdoor advertising, except for outdoor advertising lawfully
established prior to January 1, 2020, which may be permitted to continue as a
nonconforming use only in accordance with
Article 7: Nonconformities, and Sections 136-126 through 136-140.1 of the North
Carolina General Statutes;
   C.   Feather flags, bow signs, pennants, and streamers;
   D.   Moving signs, excluding flags, banners, and clocks;
   E.   Flashing, scrolling, twirling, or blinking signs;
   F.   Gas- or air-filled balloons, figures, and other inflatable signs;
   G.   Signs on the roof or above the parapet of a building;
   H.   Any sign which the Planning Director determines obstructs the view of
bicyclists, pedestrians, or motorists using any street, approach to any street
intersection, or which interferes with the effectiveness of or obscures any
traffic sign, device, or signal;
   I.   Signs, lights, rotating features, words, and other devices, which
resemble or may be erroneously construed as traffic signals, traffic signs, or
emergency vehicle lights;
   J.   Illuminated or highly reflective signs that law enforcement determines
hampers the vision of motorists, pedestrians, or bicyclists;
   K.   Any sign which interferes with free passage from or obstructs any fire
escape, downspout, door, stairway, ladder, or opening intended as a means of
ingress or egress;
   L.   Any sign placed on a utility pole, street sign post, traffic signal
support, hydrant, bridge, tree, aspect of public infrastructure, or street
paving that is not installed or approved by an appropriate governmental agency;
   M.   Signage affixed to a stationary motor vehicle, boat, or trailer that
remains in the same or essentially the same location for more than 30 days; and
   N.   Signs with speakers intended for audio playback.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.6.   General Standards Applicable to All Signs
   A.   Sign Permit Required.
      1.   Unless exempted by Section
5.11.4, Exclusions, or included in Section
5.11.6.B, Signs Not Subject to Sign Permit, all signs shall require issuance of
a sign permit in accordance with Section
2.2.16, Sign Permit, prior to construction, installation, revision, or display.
      2.   Some signs may also require building and electrical permits in
accordance with the North Carolina Building Code.
   B.   Signs Not Subject to Sign Permit.
      1.   The following sign types shall not be required to obtain a sign
permit, but shall comply with all applicable requirements in this section and
this Ordinance:
         a.   The placement of one or more incidental signs, subject to the
applicable standards in
Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type;
         b.   The placement of a supplemental sign, subject to the applicable
standards in
Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type; and
         c.   Public art, subject to the standards in Section
5.11.6.C, Public Art.
      2.   Failure to comply with the standards for these sign types shall be a
violation of this Ordinance subject to the provisions in
Article 8: Enforcement.
   C.   Public Art.
      1.   Distinguished from Signs.
         a.   Painted or printed murals or other forms of public art shall not
be considered as signage subject to these standards in cases where the art or
mural does not incorporate a direct or indirect reference to a tradename,
trademark, or the name of the establishment associated with the mural or
artwork.
         b.   All other forms of public art or murals shall be considered as
signage subject to the standards in this section.
      2.   Standards for Public Art. In cases where public art or a mural does
not constitute a sign, it shall be subject to any applicable adopted policy
guidance and the following standards:
         a.   A mural or public art installation shall require approval of a
site plan in accordance with the standards in Section
2.2.17, Site Plan.
         b.   Murals and public art shall be maintained and periodically
cleaned, refreshed, or refurbished so that the mural remains visible and
consistent with its approval.
         c.   In the event the owner of a building with a mural no longer
wishes to maintain the mural, it shall be removed or covered with paint or
other material consistent with the existing exterior material on the building
wall where the mural is located. In cases where an approved mural is removed or
concealed, it may only be re-established through approval of a site plan in
accordance with Section
2.2.17, Site Plan.
   D.   Signs in Street Rights-of-Way.
      1.   Generally. No sign shall be permitted within a street right-of-way
except in accordance with Section
5.11.6.D.2, Signs Allowed in the Right-of-Way.
      2.   Signs Allowed in the Right-of-Way.
         a.   Only the following signs may be permitted in a street right-of-
way:
         i.   Regulatory signage erected by the Town of Zebulon;
         ii.   Signage erected by NCDOT;
         iii.   Emergency warning signage erected by a governmental agency,
public utility, or contractor performing work within the right-of-way;
         iv.   Signage in the DTC and DTP districts; and
         v.   Political signs.
         b.   Except for sidewalks signs, signs permitted within a street
right-of-way shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of at least nine feet
above the paving, curb, gutter, sidewalk, or grade, as appropriate (see
Figure 5.11.6.D.2.b: Minimum Vertical Clearance).
         c.   In the event the establishment or realignment of a street results
in an existing sign becoming wholly or partially within the right-of-way in
violation of these standards, the sign shall be removed at the expense of the
person or agency establishing or realigning the street.
Figure 5.11.6.D.2.b: Minimum Vertical Clearance
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-338.jpg]
      3.   Removal of Illegal Signs in Right-of-Way and Public Properties.
         a.   The Planning Director may remove any sign placed on public
property or within any public right-of-way in violation of this Ordinance.
         b.   Signage determined to be in violation of this Ordinance and
removed from public property or a public right-of-way shall be discarded.
         c.   Penalties may be levied for each such illegal sign as prescribed
Article 8: Enforcement.
   E.   Prohibited Locations.
      1.   In no instance shall a sign or sign support structure be located
within the following areas:
         a.   Within five feet of the street right-of-way, except as allowed in
Section
5.11.6.D.2, Signs Allowed in the Right-of-Way:
         b.   Sight distance triangles, unless required by NCDOT;
         c.   Required open space set-asides; or
         d.   Within a recorded access or drainage easement.
      2.   Nothing shall limit the placement of a sign or sign support
structure within a required zoning district setback, provided it complies with
the applicable standards in this section and does not interfere with
landscaping materials required by Section
5.6, Landscaping.
   F.   Measurement. Sign face area, maximum sign height, and other measurement
standards pertaining to signage are determined in accordance with the standards
in Section
9.3.13, Signage Measurement.
   G.   Changeable Copy. Areas devoted to changeable copy on a sign shall be
subject to the following standards:
      1.   Changeable copy areas may only be located on ground or wall signs;
      2.   No more than 50 percent of the sign face area may be devoted to
changeable copy area;
      3.   The display of copy shall not change more than once per minute;
      4.   Outdoor advertising signs shall not include areas devoted to
changeable copy;
      5.   Signage copy shall not be animated, and shall not blink, scroll,
flash, or have other moving effects. This provision shall not restrict the copy
from changing from one message to another.
   H.   Illumination. Where authorized, signs may only be illuminated in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Generally.
         a.   Illuminated signs shall obtain a building permit and be
configured in accordance with North Carolina Building Code, applicable electric
code, and the adopted fire code.
         b.   All wiring to ground, pole, or other freestanding signs erected
after January 1, 2020, shall be located underground.
      2.   Internal Illumination.
         a.   Internally illuminated signs are prohibited within all
residential districts.
         b.   Signs facing residentially-zoned lots or lots used solely for
residential purposes shall not be internally illuminated. Nothing shall require
a pre-existing internally illuminated sign to be removed if the lot it faces
becomes used solely for residential purposes.
      3.   Indirect or External Illumination.
         a.   All external or indirectly illuminated signs shall illuminate
only the face of the sign and shall not shine directly into or create glare on
a right-of-way or residential use.
         b.   Indirect or externally illuminated signs shall comply with the
standards in Section
5.4.7, Maximum Illumination Levels.
      4.   Flashing or Intermittent Lights Prohibited.
         a.   Flashing lights are prohibited.
         b.   Sign illumination shall not vary in degrees of brightness or
intensity.
   I.   Structural Configuration. All signs and sign supporting structures
shall be constructed and designed according to generally accepted engineering
practices to withstand wind pressures and load distribution as specified in the
current North Carolina Building Code.
   J.   Maintenance Required.
      1.   All signs and sign supports shall be maintained in good repair.
      2.   In the event a sign or sign support is poorly maintained or becomes
unsafe, the Planning Director shall notify the sign owner of the condition, and
the sign owner shall take whatever action is required to maintain public
safety.
      3.   Failure to correct the unsafe condition is a violation of this
Ordinance and shall be subject to the remedies in Section
8.8, Remedies.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.7.   Removal of Dilapidated or Obsolete Signs
   A.   Dilapidated Signs.
      1.   Dilapidated signs shall be removed or repaired by a landowner or
other responsible party in accordance with the requirements described in a
notice of violation by the Planning Director.
      2.   An existing sign shall be considered dilapidated if it:
         a.   Is in disrepair or exhibits a state of being broken or neglected;
         b.   Fails to maintain its form as originally constructed or
permitted;
         c.   Fails to perform its intended function;
         d.   Suffers from support pole or structural failure;
         e.   Has borders that are falling off or are already removed;
         f.   Has panels that are missing or that have fallen off;
         g.   Has its message falling off or in a state of disrepair such that
it cannot be interpreted by the motoring public; or
         h.   Signs that are overgrown by vegetation.
   B.   Obsolete Signs.
      1.   Permanent Signs.
         a.   Permanent signs identifying business establishments that are no
longer in operation shall be removed from the premises within 180 days from the
date of termination.
         b.   In cases where the cabinet associated with an obsolete sign is
removed, all sign supports, sign framework, mounting hardware, or similar
features shall also be removed.
         c.   In no instance shall a sign cabinet be left in place without sign
faces.
      2.   Supplemental Signs.
         a.   Supplemental signs advertising shows, displays, meetings, or
similar events shall be removed within 3 days from the date the event is
completed.
         b.   Removal of supplemental signs shall include removal of any
frames, supports, or hardware used exclusively for the display of signage.
   C.   Failure to Remove Signage. Failure of an owner to remove an obsolete or
dilapidated sign may result in removal of the sign at the owner's expense
following provision of notice to the owner by the Planning Director.
   D.   Inspection. If, through inspection, the Planning Director determines
that a sign or sign supporting structure does not comply with the provisions of
these regulations, the Town shall take action in accordance with the standards
in
Article 8: Enforcement.
   E.   Nonconforming Signage. Nonconforming signage shall be subject to the
standards in Section
7.3, Nonconforming Signs.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.8.   Nonconforming Signage
   A.   Lawfully established nonconforming signage may remain in place after
January 1, 2020, in accordance with the standards in Section
7.3, Nonconforming Signs, or Section
5.11.7, Removal of Dilapidated or Obsolete Signs, as applicable.
   B.   After January 1, 2020, all lots shall comply with the incidental,
window, and supplemental signage requirements in this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.11.9.   Sign Standards by Sign Type
Table 5.11.9: Sign Standards by Sign Type, sets out the standards applicable to
each sign type regulated by this Ordinance.
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
A. Awning Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-340.jpg][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-342.jpg][https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
344.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-346.jpg]
                     A sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy,
                     or other protective canvas, plastic, or metal cover
1. Definition        affixed to a building and located over a door, entrance,
                     window, or other outdoor area. Colors, stripes, or
                     patterns on an awning's surface shall not be considered as
                     signage.
2. Where Permitted   Residential OI NC  GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
                     No          No Yes Yes     Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of    1 per every ten linear feet of building facade facing a
Awning Signs per Lot street [1]
Maximum Height       Under the roof or top of a parapet wall [2]
Maximum Sign Face    25 percent of the awning area upon which it is located,
Area per Individual  including the drip flap, if provided
Awning Sign
Maximum Sign Face
Area of all Awning   5 percent of each facade facing a street [1]
Signs per Lot
Notes:
[1] Signage on umbrellas or shade structures associated with an outdoor dining
area are not counted as awning signs and are exempted from the awning sign
number and face area standards.
[2] Awning signs shall maintain a minimum height of at least eight feet above
grade.
4. Additional Standards
a. Signage may be located on the drip flap, subject to the maximum sign face
area standards.
b. No awnings above the 3rd building story may be internally illuminated.
c. Awning signs, when allowed within a street right-of-way, shall not project
more than five feet into a right-of-way, nor closer than two feet from the
curbline.
d. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
B. Banner Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-348.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-350.jpg] [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
352.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-354.jpg]
                      A sign made of a flexible fabric or plastic material that
                      is affixed to a building or other vertical projection,
1. Definition         except utility poles, but is not an awning sign or a
                      flag. Feather flags and bow signs are not banners and are
                      prohibited by this Ordinance.
2. Where Permitted    Residential OI NC GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
                     No          No No Yes     Yes       No
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of     1 per use or non-residential tenant in a multi-tenant
Banners per Lot       building [1]
Maximum Mounting      Below the roof or parapet [2] [3]
Height
Maximum Sign Face
Area per Individual   20 square feet
Banner
Maximum Banner Length Lesser of: 30% of the facade length or 20 linear feet
Maximum Banner Width  4 linear feet
Notes:
[1] Maximum of 3 banners per multi-tenant site at any one time.
[2] When located over a street right-of-way, at least 18 feet above the street
pavement and at least 9 feet above a sidewalk.
[3] When located on a fence, wall, or as a freestanding banner, a maximum
height of 12 feet to the highest point. When located on a building wall, the
banner shall not be mounted above the first floor.
4. Additional Standards
a. Banners shall be adequately secured through the use of grommets, d-rings,
brackets, or similar fastening devices.
b. Banners over 9 square feet in size shall incorporate wind slits.
c. Banners shall not be placed within required sight distance triangles or in
locations that obstruct the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
d. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
C. Construction Sign/Development Advertising Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1969.png]
1. Definition A temporary sign located on a lot for the duration of its
              construction/development.
2. Where      Residential    OI  NC  GC & HC     DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     Yes            Yes Yes Yes         Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of            One sign per frontage with public right-of-way
Construction/Development     access which must maintain at least a 200 ft.
Advertising Signs Per Lot    separation from a construction sign on the same
                             site.
Maximum Sign Height [1]      8 feet
Maximum Sign Face Area       32 square feet per side (max. 2 sides)
Minimum Setback from any Lot 10 feet from any lot line
Line
NOTES:
[1] Sign support structures shall be included in maximum sign height and
face area.
3. Durational Standards
                             All Residential     2 years
Maximum Duration of the Sign Districts
                             Non Residential and 1 year
                             Mixed Use Districts
                             All Construction/Development Advertising signs
Removal                      must be removed once the development is
                             determined to be complete
NOTES:
[1] Renewal of the existing sign permit may be obtained once the duration of
the previous sign permit is complete.
4. Additional Standards
a. Supports and braces should be hidden from public view to the fullest
extent possible.
b. Construction/Development Advertising signs shall not be located within a
street right-of-way.
c. Construction/Development Advertising signs shall not be placed within
required sight distance triangles or in locations that obstruct the safe
movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
d. Construction/Development Advertising signs shall not include permanent
modifications to a site or building.
e. Construction/Development Advertising signs may not be illuminated.
f. Construction/Development Advertising signs shall not block windows or
doors.
g. Construction/Development Advertising signs must be maintained in good
condition.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
D. Electronic Message Board
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-356.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-358.jpg] 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-360.jpg]
              A wall or ground sign, or portion thereof that displays
              electronic, non-pictorial, or text information that may or may
              not change. Sign content is displayed by light emitting diodes
1. Definition (LED's), fiber optics, light bulbs, or other illumination
              devices arranged in a matrix within the display area. Electronic
              message boards ("EMBs") do not display animation or imagery that
              appears to move.
2. Where      Residential OI             NC GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     No          No             No Yes     Yes       No
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of EMBs per Lot           One per lot or development
Minimum Separation of EMB from           150 linear feet
Residentially-Zoned Land
Minimum Separation from Another EMB      35 linear feet
Maximum Height                           In accordance with wall or ground
                                         sign standards, as appropriate [1]
Maximum EMB Face Area                    In accordance with wall or ground
                                         sign standards, as appropriate [2]
                                         Lesser of: 32 square feet or 50% of
Maximum Percentage of Total Sign Face    the total allowable sign face area
Area Devoted to an EMB                   for the type of sign proposed (i.e.,
                                         wall, ground)
Minimum Static Hold Time Between Message 1 minute [3]
Changes
                                         465 lumens per square foot during
Maximum Brightness                       daytime hours; 70 lumen per square
                                         foot during dawn, dusk, and nighttime
                                         hours
Notes:
[1] In no instance shall an EMB extend higher than 30 feet above grade.
[2] The face area shall include all mounting hardware, framework, and sign
supports.
[3] Transition between images shall take place within one second or less.
4. Additional Standards
a. EMBs may only be configured as a wall or ground sign, or portion thereof.
b. EMBs may only be allowed as part of a permanent sign, not a temporary sign.
c. Use of the terms "stop", "caution", or "danger" is prohibited on an EMB for
reasons of public safety.
d. Appearance of animation or message movement is prohibited.
e. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
f. The owner or operator of an EMB shall attest to the installation of a power
supply system that will power the EMB off after a power outage or other
condition that causes the sign to blink, flash, or have the appearance of
movement.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
E. Flags
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-362.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-364.jpg] [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
366.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-368.jpg]
              A piece of cloth or similar material, typically rectangular or
              square in shape, that is attached to a pole or rope along the
              shorter side of the material. Flags flown by a governmental
1. Definition agency, located on land owned or operated by a governmental
              agency, or on a building owned or operated by a governmental
              agency are exempted from these standards. Flags affixed to two or
              more poles at the same time are subject to the standards for
              banners. Feather flags and bow signs are prohibited.
2. Where      Residential OI            NC  GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     Yes         Yes           Yes Yes     Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Flags per Lot         3
                                        25 feet above grade or 25 feet above
Maximum Mounting Height                 the highest point of a building if
                                        building-mounted [1]
Maximum Number of Flags per Flag Pole   2
Maximum Size per Flag                   24 square feet
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line for a The height of the flagpole or mounting
Flagpole or other Mounting Device       device
Notes:
[1] In cases where a flag projects out into a street right-of-way, the flag
shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of 18 feet above the street
pavement and 9 feet above a sidewalk.
4. Additional Standards
i. Flags and flagpoles shall not be placed within required sight distance
triangles or in locations that obstruct the safe movement of vehicles and
pedestrians.
ii. Except on lots in residential districts, flags on poles shall be located no
more than 10 feet from the front building line.
iii. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
F. Ground Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-370.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-372.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-374.jpg]
               Any sign, other than a pole sign, that is attached directly to
               the ground by means of a supporting system comprised of a solid
               pedestal, or other bracing system where there is no open space
               between the bottom of the sign face area and the ground. Ground
               signs are configured so that the base of the sign support
               structure is at least as wide as the sign face area. Ground
1. Definition  signs may also be referred to as "pedestal" signs or "monument"
               signs. Any sign with an opening between the bottom of the
               sign's face area and ground or where the sign face area is
               wider than the sign support structure shall be considered as a
               pole or "freestanding" sign, which are prohibited. Ground signs
               are not mounted to a building wall, and are not located within
               a street right-of-way.
2. Where       Residential     OI          NC     GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted      Yes             Yes         Yes    Yes     Yes       No
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Ground Signs 1 [1]                              
Per Lot
Maximum Height Residential     OI          NC     GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
[2] [3] [4]    3 feet          4 feet      4 feet 6 feet  3 feet    15 feet
Maximum Sign Face Area [5]                 36 square feet
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line          5 feet [6]
Minimum Separation between Ground Signs on 50 feet [7]
Adjacent Lots
Notes:
[1] Developments on lots of 2 acres in size or greater and corner lots may
have a ground sign for each roadway fronting the perimeter of the development.
[2] Sign height shall be determined based on the higher of: the adjacent grade
level or the grade level of the adjacent street.
[3] In nonresidential districts, the maximum height of a ground sign may be
increased by 1 foot for every 10 feet of setback beyond the minimum applicable
setback to a maximum ground sign height of 25 feet.
[4] The support structure shall be included within the measurement of the
sign's maximum height.
[5] The maximum sign face area may be increased by 4 square feet for every 10
feet of setback beyond the minimum applicable setback to a maximum ground sign
face area of 175 square feet.
[6] Except within the DTC and DTP districts, all portions of a ground sign
shall be at least 5 feet from a street right-of-way.
[7] In cases where a ground sign is proposed and it is impossible to meet the
minimum separation distance requirements from an existing ground sign, the
proposed sign shall maintain the minimum street setback necessary to ensure an
unimpeded view of the existing ground sign on an adjacent lot.
4. Additional Standards
a. Ground signs shall not be placed within required sight distance triangles
or in locations that obstruct the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
b. Ground signs with support structures of three feet in height or more above
grade shall include evergreen plantings around the base of the sign support
structure in sufficient number to screen its view from off-site areas.
c. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
G. Incidental Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-376.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-378.jpg] [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-
380.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-382.jpg]
              Any small or nondescript sign that only provides directional
              information or safety information for the public. Examples of
1. Definition incidental signs include signs addressing on-site traffic
              circulation (such as "entrance" or "exit" signs), public safety
              (such as "high voltage" or "beware of dog" signs), or address
              signs.
2. Where      Residential    OI  NC  GC & HC          DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     Yes            Yes Yes Yes              Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards [1]
                             Lots with an existing
                             single- family detached  1 per principal structure
                             dwelling, mobile home,
                             or manufactured home
                             Lots with an duplex,
Maximum Number of Incidental triplex, or quadplex     1 per dwelling unit
Signs Per Lot                dwelling unit
                             Single-family attached   1 per dwelling unit
                             dwelling
                             Multi-family development 1 per building + 5
                             Lots in a mixed-use or   [2]
                             commercial district
                             6 feet for lots in residential districts; 12 feet
Maximum Height               for lots in mixed-use and nonresidential districts
                             [3]
Maximum Sign Face Area       1 1/2 square feet per sign [4]
Total Incidental Sign Face
Area per Mixed-Use or        20 square feet
Nonresidential Lot or
Development
Minimum Setback from any Lot 5 feet [5]
Line
Notes:
[1] Incidental signs that exceed the maximum height or sign face area shall be
considered as a wall sign, ground sign, pole sign, or projecting sign, as
appropriate.
[2] See total incidental sign face area per lot or development.
[3] Sign height shall be determined based on the grade immediately adjacent to
the sign.
[4] Up to two incidental signs on any single lot may be up to three square feet
in sign face area size.
[5] In no instance shall an incidental sign be located within a right-of-way, a
sight distance triangle, or in locations that obstruct the safe movement of
vehicles and pedestrians
4. Additional Standards
a. No sign permit shall be required for the establishment of incidental signs,
but all incidental signage shall comply with the standards in this section.
b. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3. Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCQ) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
H. Political Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-384.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-386.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-388.jpg]
              Any sign that advocates for a particular political candidate,
              party, position, or political action that is made available for
              view by the public before and during the portion of a calendar
              year when elections are underway as described in Section 136-32
1. Definition of the North Carolina General Statutes. Political signs are also
              referred to as "campaign" signs or "election" signs. Signs of a
              political nature that are placed on private property outside the
              period of time when elections are underway shall be considered as
              an incidental sign.
2. Where      Residential OI          NC  GC & HC       DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     Yes         Yes         Yes Yes           Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Political Signs Per 6[1]
Lot
                                                        42 inches above the
                                      In a right-of-way edge of the pavement of
Maximum Height                                          the adjacent roadway
                                      On an individual  60 inches above
                                      lot               adjacent grade
                                      In a right-of-way 6 square feet per sign
Maximum Sign Face Area                On an individual  32 square feet per sign
                                      lot
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line     None
Minimum Separation between Political  [2]
Signs
Notes:
[1] There is no limit on the number of political signs that may be placed
within the right-of-way in front of a lot during the portion of the year when
elections are underway provided the owner of the sign obtains the consent of
the lot's owner to place the sign in front of the lot.
[2] No political sign may be placed in any manner that obscures another sign
from view.
4. Additional Standards
a. Political signs shall not be placed within required sight distance triangles
or in locations that obstruct the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
b. Political signs may not be placed on utility poles or traffic control signal
poles.
c. Political signs may be placed in the right-of-way only during the period of
time when elections are underway as identified in Section 136-32 of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
d. Political signs may not be illuminated.
e. Political signs found to be in violation of these standards or the
applicable standards in Section 136-32 of the North Carolina General Statutes
may be removed by the Planning Director.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
I. Projecting Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-390.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-392.jpg] [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-
0-394.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-396.jpg]
              Any sign that projects outward from a building's exterior wall
              where the sign face area is not parallel to the building wall
              upon which is mounted. Projecting signs are also referred to as
1. Definition "marquee" signs. Signs mounted to a building wall with sign face
              areas that are parallel to the building wall are considered
              "wall" signs. A sign comprised of fabric or similar material is
              a "flag" or a "banner" sign.
2. Where      Residential OI          NC  GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     Yes         Yes         Yes Yes     Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Projecting Signs    One per building facade
Per Lot
                                      A projecting sign shall not project
Maximum Height                        above the height of the wall it is
                                      mounted to [1]
Maximum Sign Face Area                40 square feet [2]
                                      A projecting sign shall not encroach
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line     into a required yard by more than 6 feet
                                      [3]
Notes:
[1] Any projecting sign that projects into a right-of-way or that projects
over a sidewalk or vehicular accessway shall maintain a minimum clearance of
at least 9 feet above grade.
[2] Projecting signs with 3 sides may have up to 80 square feet of sign area.
[3] A projecting sign shall not project into a right-of-way by more than 36
inches, and shall maintain a minimum of two feet of horizontal distance from
the back of the curb.
4. Additional Standards
a. Projecting signs of 1 1/2 square feet in total sign area or less shall be
considered incidental signs.
b. Any electrical wiring shall be located within the sign or the wall it is
affixed to.
c. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
J. Sidewalk Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-398.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-400.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-402.jpg]
              A pedestrian-oriented movable sign that sits on the grade located
              proximate to the primary entrance of the nonresidential or mixed
              use being advertised. Sidewalk signs are also referred to as "A-
1. Definition frame" signs or "Board" signs. The sign shall be self-supporting
              and only visible during operating hours. Sidewalk signs are
              configured with a broader base then a top or are equipped with
              supports to ensure they remain stable in normal wind conditions.
2. Where      Residential OI             NC  GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     No          No             Yes Yes     Yes       No
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Sidewalk Signs Per Lot 1 per street frontage, regardless of
                                         the number of tenants [1] [2]
Minimum Clearance Around Sidewalk Sign   5 feet [3] [4]
Maximum Height                           4 feet
Maximum Sign Face Area                   8.5 square feet
Maximum Number of Sidewalk Sign Sides    2
Maximum Distance from Primary Entrance   25 linear feet
of Use Being Advertised
Notes:
[1] Sidewalk signs may only be permitted on a sidewalk or on-site pedestrian
walkway.
[2] Nothing shall limit the rotating of different sidewalk signs on an
individual lot provided the total number of signs does not exceed the maximum.
[3] A sidewalk sign may only be placed in a manner that allows for unrestricted
pedestrian access around all sides of the sign, and shall not be located within
an access ramp, proximate to an accessible parking space, or within a sight
distance triangle.
[4] A sidewalk sign shall be no closer than 6 inches from the curb.
4. Additional Standards
a. A sidewalk sign shall not be permanently attached to the sidewalk, signs,
street trees, landscaping, bicycle rack, or any other fixtures on the sidewalk.
b. Each sidewalk sign shall be removed each day by the close of business.
c. Sidewalks signs may include changeable copy.
d. Sidewalks signs shall not be illuminated.
e. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
K. Subdivision Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-404.jpg] [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/
0-0-0-406.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-408.jpg]
              A ground sign located at the entrance to a subdivision
1. Definition consisting of two or more lots. Subdivision signs shall be
              located outside all street rights-of-way, and shall not be
              located on a lot with a principal building.
2. Where      Residential OI  NC        GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted
             Yes         Yes Yes       Yes     Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Subdivision Signs Per 1 per development entrance
Development
Maximum Height                          6 feet [1]
Maximum Sign Face Area                  32 square feet [2] [3]
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line       None
Minimum Setback from Right-of-Way       5 feet
Notes:
[1] Sign height shall be determined based on the higher of: the adjacent
grade level or the grade level of the adjacent street.
[2] The support structure for a subdivision sign configured as a ground
sign shall not be included with the calculation of the maximum allowable
sign face area.
[3] Developments with 2 or more entries may have up to 64 square feet of
subdivision sign provided that no single entry has a subdivision sign with
a sign face area exceeding 32 square feet.
4. Additional Standards
a. Subdivision signs may only be configured as a ground sign.
b. Subdivision signs shall not be placed within required sight distance
triangles or in locations that obstruct the safe movement of vehicles and
pedestrians.
c. Subdivision signs that are illuminated shall comply with the applicable
limitations on glare in Section
5.4, Exterior Lighting.
d. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
L. Suspended Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-410.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-412.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-414.jpg]
                   A sign that is suspended from the underside of a principal
                   building's overhang or canopy that is intended for view by
                   pedestrians or patrons already on a site. The sign may be
                   parallel or perpendicular to the building wall. A sign that
1. Definition      is  not suspended from a canopy or overhang of a building is
                   not a suspended sign. A sign mounted on a building wall
                   parallel to the wall is a "wall" sign. A sign mounted on a
                   building wall perpendicular to the building wall is a
                   "projecting" sign. Signs visible through a window are
                   "window" signs.
2. Where Permitted Residential OI      NC  GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
                   No          Yes     Yes Yes     Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Projection Signs Per 1 per lot or 1 per tenant in a multi-
Development                            tenant building
Maximum Mounting Height                Below the roof or parapet [1]
Maximum Sign Face Area                 3 square feet; 6 square feet in the CBD
                                       district
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line      [2]
Notes:
[1] Any suspended sign that projects into a right-of-way or that projects over
a sidewalk, walkway, or vehicular accessway shall maintain a minimum clearance
of at least 9 feet above the grade or the walkway.
[2] A suspended sign shall maintain a minimum of two feet of horizontal
distance from the back of the curb.
4. Additional Standards
a. Suspended signs shall not project beyond the canopy or overhang they are
mounted to.
b. Suspended signs shall be flush mounted or drop mounted with metal pipe,
chain, wire, or other comparable material and permanently affixed to the
overhang or canopy where mounted.
c. Suspended signs shall not be mounted to an accessory structure.
d. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
M. Supplemental Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-416.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-418.jpg] [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-
0-0-420.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-422.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-424.jpg]
              Any sign that is not permanently affixed to the ground or a
              building which can be removed without special handling and
1. Definition that may be located on a lot or site in addition to other
              forms of signage. Banners and incidental signs are not
              supplemental signs. Ideological signs are considered
              supplemental signs.
2. Where      Residential OI            NC  GC & HC DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     Yes         Yes           Yes Yes     Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Supplemental Signs    1 per lot; 1 per nonresidential
Per Lot                                 tenant in a multi-tenant development
                                        Residential 6 feet
Maximum Sign Height [1]                 Districts
                                        All Other   12 feet
                                        Districts
                                        Residential 6 square feet
Maximum Sign Face Area [2]              Districts
                                        All Other   20 square feet
                                        Districts
Minimum Setback from any Lot Line       10 feet from any lot line
Notes:
[1] Sign support structures shall be included in maximum sign height and
face area.
[2] Signs visible through a window are also subject to the standards for
window signs.
4. Additional Standards
a. Supplemental signs shall not require issuance of a sign permit and are
not subject to a maximum duration.
b. Supplemental signs shall not be located within a street right-of-way.
c. Supplemental signs shall not be placed within required sight distance
triangles or in locations that obstruct the safe movement of vehicles and
pedestrians.
d. Supplemental signs shall not include permanent modifications to a site or
building.
e. Supplemental signs may not be illuminated.
f. Supplemental signs shall not block windows or doors.
g. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3. Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
N. Wall Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-426.jpg] 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-428.jpg] 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-430.jpg]  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-432.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-434.jpg]
           Any sign, other than a projecting sign, that is mounted to or painted on an exterior
           building wall. Wall signs have only one sign face and are configured to be parallel to the
1.         building wall upon which they are located. Signs mounted perpendicular to a wall are
Definition "projecting" signs. Signs mounted from the ceiling of a building's canopy or overhang are
           "suspended" signs. Signs made of fabric or other material that moves are "banners" or
           "flags." Signs visible through a window are "window" signs.
                               GC  DTC
2. Where   Residential OI  NC  &   &   LI, CI, HI
Permitted                      HC  DTP
           RMF Only    Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
                       Lots in
                       residential 1
                       districts
                       Lots in all
                       other
                       districts - 1 per building facade
Maximum Number of Wall single
Signs Per Development  tenant
                       building
                       Lots in all
                       other
                       districts - 1 per tenant
                       multi-
                       tenant
                       building
Maximum Mounting       No wall sign shall extend above, below or beyond the building wall to which it
Height                 is attached [1]
                       Lots in
                       residential 16 square feet
                       districts
                       Lots in OI
                       and NC      32 square feet
Maximum Sign Face Area districts
[2]                    Lots in DTC ½ square foot of sign face area per lineal foot of building facade
                       and DTP     upon which the sign is located [3]
                       districts
                       Lots in GC,
                       HC, and     ½ square foot of sign face area per lineal foot of building facade
                       industrial  upon which the sign is located [4]
                       districts
Minimum Setback from   Same as the building [5]
any Lot Line
Notes:
[1] Wall signs that project into a right-of-way shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of at
least 9 feet above grade.
[2] In the case of multi-tenant nonresidential buildings, the total sign area per tenant shall be
determined based on the portion of the building frontage occupied by each storefront. End units may
have a wall sign on each building facade, subject to the maximum sign face area standards. [3] No
individual wall sign shall exceed 32 square feet of sign face area.
[4] No individual wall sign shall exceed 64 square feet of sign face area.
[5] Wall signs shall not project into a right-of-way by more than six inches.
4. Additional Standards
i. No wall sign shall be located in a manner that covers or blocks ingress or egress from a door,
window, or fire escape.
ii. Any electrical wiring shall be located within the sign or the wall it is affixed to.
iii. Wall signs that are illuminated shall comply with the applicable limitations on glare in Section
5.4, Exterior Lighting.
iv. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
TABLE 5.11.9: SIGN STANDARDS BY SIGN TYPE
O. Window Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-436.jpg] [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/IMAGES/0-0-0-438.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-440.jpg]
              A sign affixed to or visible through the surface of a window or
              glass door that is intended to be visible to the public from
              outside the building. Signs painted on glass and etched or
1. Definition frosted glass that includes text or symbols shall be considered
              as a window sign. Signs not visible from off-site areas are
              exempted from these standards. Signs mounted to a building's
              exterior wall are "wall" signs.
2. Where      Residential OI       NC  GC & HC         DTC & DTP LI, CI, HI
Permitted     No          Yes      Yes Yes             Yes       Yes
3. Dimensional Standards
Maximum Number of Window Signs Per No limit, subject to the maximum sign face
Development                        area standards
                                   Window signs are not permitted above the
Maximum Mounting Height            second story or higher than 25 feet above
                                   ground level
                                                       25% of the outer extent
                                   DTP & DTC districts of any single window or
Maximum Sign Face Area [1]                             door [2]
                                                       40% of the outer extent
                                   All other districts of any single window or
                                                       door [2]
Notes:
[1] Groups of multiple windows or doors within six inches of one another on the
same building facade shall be considered as one window or door for the purposes
of sign face area calculation.
[2] Window signs shall not be located or configured in ways that prevent
patrons operating doors safely.
[3] The Planning Director may allow for the maximum sign area to be up to 25%
of the cumulative surface area of all the windows on the face of a wall if
there are no other signs located on that wall and if the positioning of the
window to which the window signs are attached do not accomplish the
transparency intent.
4. Additional Standards
a. Window signs may not be externally illuminated.
b. Material used to block views into a vacant building (such as brown paper) is
not considered to be a window sign.
c. Blinds, shades, or curtains bearing symbols or text that is visible from
off-site areas shall be considered to be a window sign subject to these
standards.
d. Signage may be subject to additional standards identified in Section
3.8.3, Gateway Corridor Overlay (GCO) District.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2020-48, passed 6-1-2020; Ord. 2021-55,
passed 3-1-2021; Ord. 2023-10, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 2024-11, passed 9-11-
2023)
5.12.   SUSTAINABILITY INCENTIVES
5.12.1.   How to Use These Incentives
These sustainable development incentives are intended to reward applicants and
forms of development that are configured in ways that conserve resources or are
better able to withstand damaging natural hazards. Rewards take the form of
increased maximum residential densities, increased maximum building heights, or
reductions from other kinds of development standards such as required parking
or maximum sign face area.
   A.   Applicants seeking to take advantage of these sustainable development
incentives should first understand the type of incentives available in
accordance with Section
5.12.4, Type of Incentives.
   B.   Once the preferred type of incentive(s) is determined, an applicant
should review Section
5.12.5, Procedure, in order to determine the minimum number and type(s) of
sustainable development practices required to take advantage of the desired
incentive(s).
   C.   Each type of incentive requires provision of one or more types of
sustainable development practice from each of two different schedules (Schedule
A and Schedule B).
   D.   The sustainable development practices are listed, by schedule type, in
Table 5.12.6: Menu of Sustainable Development Practices.
   E.   The types of sustainable development practices to be provided are at
the applicant's discretion, but the minimum number of practices from each
schedule must be provided. Nothing shall limit the Board of Commissioners from
including a condition of approval that specifies the use of one or more
particular types of sustainable development practice should an applicant decide
to pursue a sustainable development incentive.
   F.   Site plans, subdivision plats, and other application materials shall
identify the type(s) of incentives sought and the sustainable development
practices provided.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.12.2.   Purpose and Intent
In an effort to encourage sustainable development practices as a means of
addressing climate change and the need for more resilient development
practices, the protection of natural resources, and ensuring a high quality of
life for future Town residents, the UDO provides the following sustainable
development practice incentives.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.12.3.   Applicability
The incentives included in this section are available to new development in the
residential, commercial, industrial, and planned development districts.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.12.4.   Type of Incentives
   A.   Development integrating sustainable development practices in accordance
with the provisions of this section shall be eligible for the following
incentives:
      1.   A density bonus of up to one additional dwelling unit per acre
beyond the maximum allowed in the base zoning district;
      2.   An increase in the maximum allowable height by up to one story or
ten feet beyond the maximum allowed in the base zoning district, with approval
of the Fire Marshal;
      3.   A modification to the off-street parking requirements resulting in a
reduction from the minimum requirements by 15 percent, or an increase to the
maximum allowable number of spaces provided by 15 percent (without an
alternative parking plan); or
      4.   An increase in the maximum allowable sign area or maximum height for
signs by 10 percent.
   B.   Development may include a sufficient number of sustainable development
practices to take advantage of more than one type of incentive, but in no
instance shall the amount of an incentive be increased or decreased (as
appropriate) beyond the maximum listed in this sub-section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.12.5.   Procedure
   A.   Development seeking to use incentives shall include a written request
with the development application that demonstrates how compliance with the
standards will be achieved.
   B.   Review for compliance with this section, and granting of requests in
accordance with this section shall occur during review of a site plan,
subdivision, planned development master plan, special use permit, or building
permit, as appropriate. The review authority responsible for review of the
development application shall also be responsible for the review of sustainable
development incentive request.
   C.   Approval of use of a particular incentive shall be based on the number
of sustainable development practices provided, in accordance with
Table 5.12.5: Sustainable Development Practice Incentives, and
Table 5.12.6: Menu of Sustainable Development Practices. To obtain the right to
a particular incentive, development shall provide the minimum number associated
of sustainable development practices from both schedule A and schedule B in the
table below.
   D.   In cases where a proposed development seeks to combine two or more
development incentives, the minimum number of required sustainable development
practices for each individual incentive shall be provided.
 
TABLE 5.12.5: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PRACTICE INCENTIVES
                                   Minimum Number of Sustainable Development
Type of Incentive                  Practices Provided
                                   From Schedule A From Schedule B
A density bonus of up to one
additional dwelling unit per acre  2               4
beyond the maximum allowed in the
base zoning district
An increase in the maximum
allowable height by up to one
story or ten feet beyond the       2               3
maximum allowed in the base zoning
district
A reduction from the minimum
parking space requirements by 15
percent, or an increase to the     2               2
maximum allowable number of
parking spaces provided by 15
percent
An increase in the maximum
allowable sign area or maximum     1               3
height for wall or freestanding
signs by 10 percent
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.12.6.   Menu of Sustainable Development Practices
One or more of the sustainable development practices in
Table 5.12.6: Menu of Sustainable Development Practices, may be offered by an
applicant for proposed development in accordance with
Table 5.12.5: Sustainable Development Practice Incentives. An applicant may
suggest a practice not listed, which shall be considered by the Planning
Director as part of review.
TABLE 5.12.6: MENU OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES
Schedule Type of Practice Documentation of Compliance
TABLE 5.12.6: MENU OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES
Schedule Type of Practice                   Documentation of Compliance
         Energy Conservation
         Inclusion of solar photovoltaic
         panels or small wind energy
         facilities in an amount capable of
A        producing 900 kilowatt hours of    Indication on site plan
         electricity per month for each
         dwelling or principal use in the
         development
A        Use of central air conditioners    Provision of manufacturer's
         that are Energy Star qualified     certification statement
         Use of only solar or tankless
A        water heating systems throughout   Inclusion on construction drawings
         the structure
         Use of a white roof or roofing     Provision of materials sample and
A        materials with minimum             manufacturer's certification
         reflectivity rating of 60 percent  statement (statement not required
         or more                            for white roofs)
         Pre-plumb and pre-wire structures
A        for solar water heating and        Indication on site plan
         photovoltaic installation
         Provision of skylights in an
         amount necessary to ensure natural
B        lighting is provided to at least   Indication on site plans
         15 percent of the habitable rooms
         in the structure
         Roof eaves or overhangs of three
B        feet or more on southern or        Indication on site plans
         western elevations
         Structure design that can
         accommodate the installation and
         operation of solar photovoltaic
B        panels or solar thermal heating    Inclusion on construction drawings
         devices (including appropriate
         wiring and water transport
         systems)
         Inclusion of shade features (e.g.,
B        awnings, louvers, shutters, etc.)
         to shade all windows and doors on
         the southern building facade
         Inclusion of shade features (e.g.,
B        awnings, louvers, shutters, etc.)  Indication on site plan
         to shade all windows and doors on
         the southern building facade
         Shade impervious surfaces and
B        southern/western building
         exposures to limit heat gain
         Inclusion of on-demand hot water
B        systems instead of tank-based
         systems
         Configuration of new buildings     Indication on site plan
         with one axis at least 1.5 times
B        longer than the other, and the
         long axis oriented in an east-west
         configuration for solar access
Certification
         Construction of the principal
AAA [1]  structure(s) to meet or exceed
         LEED Platinum certification
         standards
         Construction of the principal
AA [2]   structure(s) to meet or exceed
         LEED Gold certification standards
         Construction of the principal      Provision of verification of
BBB      structure(s) to meet or exceed     project compliance by certifying
         LEED Silver certification          agency (may be provided within one
         standards                          year following occupancy)
         Construction of the principal
BB       structure(s) to meet or exceed
         LEED Bronze certification
         standards
         Construction of the principal
AAA      structure(s) to meet or exceed
         BREEAM "Excellent" certification
         standards
         Construction of the principal
AA       structure(s) to meet or exceed
         BREEAM "Very Good" certification
         standards
         Construction of the principal
BBB      structure(s) to meet or exceed
         BREEAM "Good" certification        Provision of verification of
         standards                          project compliance by certifying
         Construction of the principal      agency (may be provided within one
BB       structure(s) to meet or exceed     year following occupancy)
         BREEAM "Pass" certification
         standards
         Construction of the principal
AAA      structure(s) to meet or exceed
         National Green Building Standard's
         "Emerald" certification standards
         Construction of the principal
AA       structure(s) to meet or exceed
         National Green Building Standard's
         "Gold" certification standards
         Construction of the principal
BBB      structure(s) to meet or exceed
         National Green Building Standard's
         "Silver" certification standards
         Construction of the principal      Provision of verification of
BB       structure(s) to meet or exceed     project compliance by certifying
         National Green Building Standard's agency (may be provided within one
         "Bronze" certification standards   year following occupancy)
         Green Globes certification for new
AA       construction or an existing
         building, as appropriate
         Construction of the principal
         structure(s) to meet some other
A        recognized organization's
         sustainability standards, as
         determined by the TRC
Water Conservation and Quality Protection
         Configuration of the principal
         structure's roof so that at least
AA [2]   50 percent of the roof is a        Indication on site plan
         "green" roof intended to capture
         and hold rain water
         Inclusion of rain water capture
         and re-use devices such as
A        cisterns, rain filters, and        Inclusion on construction drawings
         underground storage basins with a
         minimum storage capacity of 500
         gallons
         Provision of bio-retention area(s)
A        or other appropriate stormwater
         infiltration system(s) of at least
         700 square feet in area
         Provision of open space set-asides
A        at a rate 200 percent or more      Indication on site plan
         beyond the minimum required
         Provision of bio-retention area(s)
B        or other appropriate stormwater
         infiltration SCM systems of at
         least 100 square feet in area
B        Removal of all lawn or turf in
         favor of living ground cover
B        Use of xeriscape landscaping
         techniques without irrigation
         Provision of 150-foot undisturbed  Indication on site plan
B        buffers adjacent to/surrounding
         all wetlands or surface waters
         Use of permeable surfacing on 50
B        percent or more of the vehicular
         use area
Building Configuration
         Construction of principal
A        structure in accordance with       Inclusion on construction drawings
         Barrier Free Design Standards
         (ANSI A1171.1)
         Construction of the principal      Signed attestation from a qualified
A        structure to a design wind speed   NC licensed engineer
         standard of 150 mph
         Inclusion of underground parking
         or parking structures sufficient
A        to accommodate 51 percent or more
         of the off-street parking
         requirements
B        Include operable windows on all    Indication on site plan
         building sides
         Provision of on-site transit
B        facilities (e.g., designated park-
         and-ride parking spaces, bus
         shelters, or similar features)
         Inclusion of showering and
         dressing facilities in
B        nonresidential developments for    Inclusion on construction drawings
         employees using alternative forms
         of transportation
         Provision of at least one enclosed
         recycling station per building
B        suitable for storage and           Indication on site plan
         collection of recyclable generated
         on-site
Site Configuration
         Configuration of the lots in a
         subdivision so that at least one-
         third of the lots created in any
AAA      particular phase have a minimum    Indication on the preliminary plat
         lot area that differs from the
         average lot area in the
         subdivision by 33 percent or more
Notes:
[1] Credited as provision of three schedule "A" features
[2] Credited as provision of two schedule "A" features
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
5.12.7.   Failure to Install or Maintain Sustainable Development Practices
The failure to install or maintain approved sustainable development practices
is a violation of this Ordinance, shall render the subject development
nonconforming, and may result in revocation of the authorization for use of
sustainable development practice incentives.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 6 - SUBDIVISIONS
Article 6 - Subdivisions
6: Subdivisions
6.1.   Introductory Provisions
6.1.1.   How to Use these Standards
6.1.2.   Purpose and Intent
6.1.3.   Applicability
6.1.4.   Exemptions
6.1.5.   Compliance with Other Standards
6.1.6.   Approval of Subdivision Plats Required
6.1.7.   Recordation of Subdivision Plats Required
6.1.8.   Issuance of Permits Following Plat Approval
6.1.9.   Subdividing in Violation
6.2.   Conservation Subdivision
6.2.1.   Purpose and Intent
6.2.2.   Applicability
6.2.3.   Procedure
6.2.4.   Conservation Subdivision Standards
6.2.5.   Delineation of Conservation and Development Areas
6.2.6.   Evaluation Criteria for Conservation Subdivision Layout
6.3.   Fee-in-Lieu
6.3.1.   Purpose
6.3.2.   Procedure
6.3.3.   Amount
6.3.4.   Review Standards for Fee-in-Lieu
6.4.   Greenways
6.4.1.   Required Greenway Dedication and Construction
6.4.2.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Greenways
6.4.3.   Greenway Configuration
6.4.4.   Density Credits
6.4.5.   Open Space Set-Aside Credits
6.5.   Owners' Associations
6.5.1.   Purpose
6.5.2.   Applicability
6.5.3.   Creation Required
6.5.4.   Responsibilities of Association
6.5.5.   Procedure for Association Establishment
6.5.6.   Documentation Requirements
6.5.7.   Membership Requirements
6.5.8.   Transfer of Maintenance Responsibility
6.5.9.   Failure to Maintain is a Violation
6.6.   Performance Guarantees
6.6.1.   Purpose and Intent
6.6.2.   Eligible Facilities and Features
6.6.3.   Ineligible Facilities
6.6.4.   Maximum Term of Guarantee
6.6.5.   Form of Guarantee
6.6.6.   Administration of Guarantees
6.6.7.   Amount of Guarantee
6.6.8.   Release or Reduction of Guarantee
6.6.9.   Improper Release of Performance Guarantees
6.6.10.   Forfeiture of Guarantee
6.6.11.   As-Built Plans Required
6.7.   Reservation of Public Lands
6.7.1.   Reservation of School Sites
6.7.2.   Dedication of Land for Public Parks
6.8.   Sidewalks
6.8.1.   Location
6.8.2.   Configuration
6.8.3.   Credit for Trails
6.8.4.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Sidewalks
6.9.   Soil Erosion & Sedimentation
6.9.1.   Natural Drainage System Utilized to the Extent Feasible
6.9.2.   Development Must Drain Properly
6.9.3.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan Required
6.9.4.   Exemptions
6.9.5.   Timing of Review
6.10.   Street   
6.10.1.   Compliance with Guiding Documents
6.10.2.   Street Classification
6.10.3.   Street Rights-Of-Way
6.10.4.   Dedication and Construction
6.10.5.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Road Improvements
6.10.6.   Private Streets
6.10.7.   Street Design
6.10.8.   Street Drainage
6.10.9.   Street Signs
6.10.10.   Traffic Control Signs and Signals
6.10.11.   Street Lights
6.10.12.   Vehicular Gates
6.10.13.   Bridges
6.10.14.   Dams
6.11.   Stormwater
6.11.1.   Generally
6.11.2.   Higher Adjacent Lands
6.11.3.   Lower Adjacent Lands
6.12.   Subdivision Standards
6.12.1.   Subdivision Name
6.12.2.   Reasonable Relationship
6.12.3.   Lot Configuration
6.12.4.   Access to Lots
6.12.5.   Monuments
6.12.6.   Easements
6.12.7.   Cluster Mailboxes
6.12.8.   Building Numbers
6.13.   Transportation Impact Analysis
6.13.1.   Introduction
6.13.2.   Purpose
6.13.3.   Applicability
6.13.4.   Pre-Application Conference
6.13.5.   Memorandum of Understanding
6.13.6.   Period of Validity
6.13.7.   Traffic Impact Analysis Report Elements
6.13.8.   Safety and Operational Analysis
6.13.9.   Deferral of Obligation
6.13.10.   Waiver
6.13.11.   Format and Submittal of Report
6.14.   Utilities and Infrastructure
6.14.1.   Utility Ownership and Easement Rights
6.14.2.   Lots Served by Governmentally Owned Water or Sewer Lines
6.14.3.   Sewage Disposal Facilities Required
6.14.4.   Water Supply System Required
6.14.5.   Electric Power
6.14.6.   Telephone Service
6.14.7.   Underground Utilities
6.14.8.   Utilities to be Consistent with Internal and External Development
6.14.9.   As-Built Drawings Required
6.14.10.   Fire Hydrants
6.1.   INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
6.1.1.   How to Use These Standards
   A.   The standards in this section are applied to applications seeking to
divide land into two or more lots. Some subdivisions of land are exempted from
complying with these requirements (see Section
6.1.4, Exemptions), while others are subject to these standards.
   B.   Any activity, whether associated with a subdivision or a site plan
application, shall be subject to applicable infrastructure standards in this
chapter.
   C.   Any applicant considering a subdivision of land should first determine
if the subdivision is subject to or exempt from these standards. All
subdivisions subject to these standards shall comply with the provisions in
Section
6.12, Subdivision Standards, as well as any of the following applicable
provisions.
   D.   Subdivisions (and site plans) that incorporate or rely on public
infrastructure shall be subject to the various infrastructure-related
provisions in this chapter such as those in Section
6.10, Streets, Section
6.8, Sidewalks, Section
6.14, Utilities and Infrastructure, and Section
6.4, Greenways.
   E.   Lots within a proposed subdivision (or individual structures proposed
as part of a site plan) may not be conveyed or occupied until all required
public infrastructure is installed and accepted by the Town or made subject to
a performance guarantee posted by the applicant as a promise to complete all
required public infrastructure in accordance with Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees.
   F.   Subdivisions (or individual developments established without a prior
subdivision of land) that include land or infrastructure elements to be owned
or operated in common by the owners of the development shall establish and
operate an owner's association in accordance with the standards in Section
6.5, Owners' Associations.
   G.   Where permitted in accordance with this chapter and
Article 3: Districts, subdivisions may be configured as conservation
subdivisions, which are intended to protect open space farmland, natural
resources, and rural character in accordance with Section
6.2, Conservation Subdivision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.2.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the subdivision of
land and extension of public infrastructure in the Town's jurisdiction. More
specifically, this section is intended to:
   A.   Provide for the orderly growth and development of the Town;
   B.   Maintain conditions essential to the public's health, safety, and
welfare;
   C.   Facilitate the further re-subdivision of larger tracts into smaller
parcels of lands and individual lots, where appropriate;
   D.   Coordinate the provision of streets within and contiguous to proposed
subdivisions;
   E.   Provide for the dedication or reservation of rights-of-way, and
easements, in accordance with the Town's adopted policy guidance; and
   F.   Ensure lots and public infrastructure are configured in ways that
ensure public safety, easy maintenance, and good planning practice.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.3.   Applicability
Unless exempted in accordance with Section
6.1.4, Exemptions, any division of land consistent with the definition of a
subdivision in Section
9.4, Definitions, that is located within the Town's jurisdiction shall comply
with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.4.   Exemptions
   The following divisions of land shall be exempt from these subdivision
standards:
   A.   Expedited subdivisions configured in accordance with Section
2.2.9, Expedited Subdivision;
   B.   Subdivisions exempted in accordance with Section 160D-802 of the North
Carolina General Statutes; and
   C.   Court-ordered subdivisions that comply with Chapter 29 of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
6.1.5.   Compliance with Other Standards
Subdivision subject to these standards in accordance with Section
6.1.3, Applicability, shall comply with the standards in this article as well
as the applicable standards in:
   A.   
Article 3: Districts;
   B.   
Article 4: Uses; and
   C.   
Article 5: Development Standards.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.6.   Approval of Subdivision Plats Required
No subdivision of land within the Town's jurisdiction, as defined in Section
9.4, Definitions, shall occur, and no lot or parcel created by such division of
land may be sold or developed unless the division complies with the standards
of this chapter as well as the applicable standards in Section
2.2.14, Preliminary Plat, or Section
2.2.10, Final Plat, as appropriate.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.7.   Recordation of Subdivision Plats Required
   A.   Subdivisions of land subject to these standards shall be recorded in
the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds following approval of the plat
by the Town.
   B.   The owner of land or an authorized agent shall sign a statement on the
plat prior to recordation that states whether or not all the land shown on the
plat is within the Town's jurisdiction.
   C.   No subdivision plat of land within the Town's jurisdiction that is
subject to these standards shall be filed or recorded until it has been
approved by the Town in accordance with Section
2.2.14, Preliminary Plat, or Section
2.2.10, Final Plat, as appropriate.
   D.   The Wake County Register of Deeds shall not file or record a
subdivision plat for land located within the Town's jurisdiction without
evidence that the division has been approved by the Town, or is not subject to
this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.8.   Issuance of Permits Following Plat Approval
No street shall be accepted and maintained by the Town, nor shall any water or
sewer be extended or connected, nor shall any permit be issued for a building
or other improvement, on land where a subdivision plat is required until the
requirements set forth in this article have been complied with.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.1.9.   Subdividing in Violation
   A.   Any owner of land (or their agent) who subdivides land in the Town's
jurisdiction, or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or any
other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been
properly approved under this Ordinance and recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds for Wake County shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor in
accordance with Section 160D-807 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   B.   The selling or transferring of land subject to these subdivision
standards by any document other than a plat prepared subject to this Ordinance
is a Class I misdemeanor in accordance with Section 160D-807 of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   C.   The Town may enjoin any illegal subdivision, transfer, or sale of land
by action for injunction in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
6.2.   CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION
6.2.1.   Purpose and Intent
The purpose and intent of this section is to provide landowners in the rural
and suburban portions of the Town a development option that provides additional
development flexibility to build on smaller lots when additional open space
set-asides are provided, and the development is designed and located in a way
that protects rural character, agricultural activities, or natural and historic
features on the site. This is done in order to:
   A.   Conserve open land, including those areas containing productive
agricultural soils, unique and sensitive natural features such as flood plains,
wetlands, river and stream corridors, areas with mature deciduous trees, and
watersheds;
   B.   Promote existing rural character particularly in areas visible from
major roadways in the Town;
   C.   Retain and protect existing environmental, natural, and cultural
resources;
   D.   Create a linked network of open lands; and
   E.   Provide reasonable economic use of the land.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.2.2.   Applicability
   A.   Type of Development. This conservation subdivision option shall be
limited to development of single-family detached residential dwellings on
individual lots in subdivisions of more than five lots. The conservation
subdivision option shall not be available for any other form of development or
use type.
   B.   Where Allowed. Single-family detached residential subdivisions of more
than five lots in the RLL, R2, and R4 districts may be developed as a
conservation subdivision, in accordance with the standards in this section.
   C.   Where Prohibited. The conservation subdivision option is not available
for use in the R6, RMF, OI, or other commercial districts.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.2.3.   Procedure
Development utilizing the conservation subdivision option shall be approved as
a preliminary plat in accordance with the procedures and standards in Section
2.2.14, Preliminary Plat, after approval of a conservation and development plan
in accordance with this section.
   A.   Conservation and Development Plan. Prior to review of an application
for preliminary plat for a conservation subdivision, an applicant shall have a
conservation and development plan for the land reviewed and approved, or
approved with conditions by the Planning Director in accordance with this
section and the standards of Section
6.2.4, Conservation Subdivision Standards, and Section
6.2.5, Delineation of Conservation and Development Areas.
   B.   Conservation and Development Plan Requirements.
      1.   Step 1 - Site Analysis Map. The applicant shall prepare a site
analysis map that provides information about existing site conditions and
context, and that analyzes existing conditions both on the land proposed for
the development site and on land within 500 feet of the site, and submit the
site analysis map to the Planning Director. It is the intent of this section
that the information required to be presented in the site analysis map be
produced primarily from existing sources, maps, in order to ensure the process
is economical for the applicant.
      2.   Step 2 - Site Inspection. After receipt of the site analysis map,
the Planning Director shall schedule a site inspection of the land with the
applicant. The applicant or the applicant's representative shall attend the
site inspection with a Town staff member. The purpose of this site visit is to:
         a.   Familiarize the staff with the existing site conditions and
natural and historic features of the site;
         b.   Identify potential site development issues, including the best
location for the development to ensure its visibility from surrounding areas
and major roadways is minimized; and
         c.   Provide an opportunity to discuss site development concepts,
including the general layout of conservation areas and potential locations for
proposed structures, utilities, streets, and other development features.
Comments made by the staff during the site inspection shall be interpreted as
being only suggestive. No official decision on the conservation and development
plan shall be made during the site inspection.
      3.   Step 3 - Conservation and Development Areas Map. Based on the site
analysis map and the information obtained during the site inspection, the
applicant shall prepare a conservation and development areas map that
depicts proposed primary conservation areas, secondary conservation areas, and
development areas, in accordance with Section
6.2.5, Delineation of Conservation and Development Areas.
      4.   Step 4 - Conservation and Development Plan. Based on the site
analysis map, the information obtained during the site inspection, and the
conservation and development areas map, the applicant shall prepare and submit
to the Planning Director a conservation and development plan. The conservation
and development plan shall include the following:
         a.   A site analysis map;
         b.   A conservation and development areas map; and
         c.   A preliminary site improvements plan, showing proposed site
development, including utilities, streets, other development features, buffers
(if applicable), and lot lines located in the proposed development area(s).
   C.   Review of Conservation and Development Plan. The Planning Director
shall review the conservation and development plan in accordance with the
procedures and requirements of Section
6.2.4, Conservation Subdivision Standards, and Section
6.2.5, Delineation of Conservation and Development Areas.
   D.   Review and Approval of Conservation Subdivision. Following review and
approval or approval with conditions of the conservation and development plan
by the Planning Director for a preliminary plat of the conservation subdivision
shall be submitted and reviewed in accordance with Section
2.2.14, Preliminary Plat.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.2.4.   Conservation Subdivision Standards
   A conservation subdivision shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Location. Conservation subdivisions shall be configured to minimize
their visibility from adjacent lands and major roadways.
   B.   Minimum Project Size. Consecrations subdivisions shall be at least 10
acres in area.
   C.   Required Conservation Area.
      1.   The required conservation area shall occupy at least 50 percent of
the total acreage of the conservation subdivision site, but nothing shall limit
it from occupying more than 50 percent of a conservation subdivision site.
      2.   The conservation area shall be considered open space set-aside
subject to the applicable standards in Section
5.7, Open Space.
   D.   Maximum Residential Density. A conservation subdivision shall be
limited to the maximum density for a conservation subdivision in the zoning
district in which it is located. Nothing shall prevent a conservation
subdivision from increasing the maximum allowable residential density in
accordance with Section
5.12, Sustain ability Incentives.
   E.   Dimensional Requirements. Conservation subdivision lots shall comply
with the dimensional standards for the zoning district where located.
Conservation subdivisions in a PD district shall comply with the dimensional
requirements specified in the PD Master Plan.
   F.   Setbacks.
      1.   Conservation subdivision lots shall comply with the setback
requirements for the zoning district where located.
      2.   Conservation subdivision lots in the PD district shall comply with
the setback requirements specified in the PD Master Plan.
      3.   Lots in a conservation subdivision shall comply with required
setbacks from streets, wetlands/surface waters, or other protected natural
areas.
   G.   Maximum Lot Coverage.
      1.   Conservation subdivision lots shall comply with the maximum lot
coverage requirements for the zoning district where located.
      2.   Conservation subdivision lots in the PD district shall comply with
the maximum lot coverage requirements specified in the PD Master Plan.
   H.   On-Site Wastewater. With approval from the appropriate county health
department, individual septic systems and drain lines may be located within the
conservation area, provided:
      1.   Easements shall be recorded showing the location of systems within
conservation area;
      2.   Restrictive covenants shall provide for access, maintenance, and
upkeep of systems located in the conservation area; and
      3.   All septic systems shall be operated in compliance with State and
local regulations.
   I.   Grading. In order to promote land development practices that maximize
the preservation of natural vegetation, minimize disturbance to vegetation and
soils, limit alteration of the natural topography, minimize surface water and
ground water runoff and diversion, minimize the need for additional storm
drainage facilities, reduce sedimentation in surrounding waters and promote
land development and site planning practices that are responsive to the town's
scenic character without preventing the reasonable development of land; the
initial clearing and grading of all conservation subdivisions shall be limited
to dedicated public rights-of-way and easements for the installation of
streets, utilities, and other infrastructure. All grading activities shall be
done in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and
regulations, including those pertaining to air and water pollution and noise
control.
      1.   Infrastructure. Grading for infrastructure improvements (streets,
sidewalks, curb, gutter, water, sewer, utilities, stormwater, spoil and borrow
areas, etc.) shall be phased according to the Master Plan. Prior to proceeding
to another phase, the developer shall stabilize the present phase with adequate
ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion and have all infrastructure
installed.
      2.   Lots. Grading of individual lots within any conservation subdivision
shall not begin without having first obtained a building permit from the Town
of Zebulon and shall be limited to those areas comprising the building
footprint, driveway and a minimal area surrounding the building footprint to
accommodate construction equipment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-44, passed 11-2-2020)
6.2.5.   Delineation of Conservation and Development Areas
The conservation area and development area on the conservation and development
areas map shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Primary Conservation Areas.
      1.   Features to be Preserved. The following features shall be located
and delineated on the conservation and development areas map, and shall be
preserved in the following priority order as primary conservation areas:
         a.   Areas with existing mature trees around the perimeter of the
site;
         b.   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers designated 404 wetlands;
         c.   Riparian buffers and other lands within 50 feet of estuarine or
other surface waters;
         d.   Areas with impermeable soils; and
         e.   Habitat utilized by endangered or threatened species or
designated Natural Heritage Areas.
      2.   Amount to be Preserved. All areas occupied by features comprising a
primary conservation area shall be set aside and reserved for conservation
purposes in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   Primary Conservation Area is less than Minimum Required. In cases
where the geographic area occupied by all features comprising the primary
conservation area is less than the minimum required conservation area, then all
lands comprising the primary conservation area shall be set aside.
         b.   Primary Conservation Area Exceeds the Minimum Required.
            i.   In the event the geographic area of all features identified
and prioritized as the primary conservation area results in a primary
conservation area exceeding the conservation area requirement, priority for
retention shall be given to the highest quality portion of the features to be
conserved. (For example, conservation of the first type of prioritized features
constitute 47 percent of a site, and the next prioritized feature consists of
five percent and the minimum required conservation area is 50 percent of the
site area, the applicant may identify which portions of the features exceeding
the 50 percent conservation area requirement will be designated for conversion
to development area).
            ii.   Development on lands made available for conversion to
development area shall be in accordance with the standards in this Ordinance.
      3.   Allowable Uses. Uses located within a primary conservation area
shall be limited to:
         a.   Pervious pedestrian trails, walkways, and boardwalks;
         b.   Above ground and below ground public utilities and associated
easements, provided no feasible alternative exists;
         c.   Street or driveway crossings, provided such crossings do not
violate this Ordinance, or other State or federal laws;
         d.   Stormwater management systems, where no practicable alternative
exists; and
         e.   Docks and other water-dependent features, as allowed in this
Ordinance.
   B.   Secondary Conservation Areas.
      1.   Features to be Preserved. In addition to primary conservation areas,
the conservation and development areas map shall also identify secondary
conservation areas, which shall be preserved in the following priority order:
         a.   Historic, archeological, and cultural resources;
         b.   Prime agricultural lands, including existing pastures (whether in
use or otherwise);
         c.   Existing and mature woodland forests, natural fields, and meadows
(especially those greater than five acres);
         d.   Scenic corridors and views; and
         e.   Areas that could serve to extend existing greenways, trails,
parks, or recreation areas.
      2.   Amount to be Preserved. All areas occupied by features comprising a
secondary conservation area shall be set aside and reserved as a part of the
conservation area in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   Primary Conservation Area Occupies More than that Required. In
the event that the geographic area set aside as the primary conservation area
is more of the required conservation area, no additional lands occupied by
secondary conservation features shall be required to be included in the
conservation area.
         b.   Primary Conservation Area Occupies Less than that Required. In
the event the geographic area set aside as the primary conservation area is
less than the required conservation area, then lands containing secondary
conservation features shall also be set aside as part of the conservation area
in priority order.
      3.   Allowable Uses. Uses located within a secondary conservation area
shall be limited to:
         a.   All uses allowed in a primary conservation area;
         b.   Uses allowed in the Agricultural Use classification in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table;
         c.   Individual water supply and septic systems;
         d.   Stormwater management facilities;
         e.   Required drainage or other utility easements; and
         f.   Mitigation of development activities, including restoration of
disturbed or degraded areas to enhance habitat and scenic value.
   C.   Ownership of Conservation Areas.
      1.   Landowner or Association. A conservation area shall be owned jointly
or in common by the owners of the development or through a recognized
homeowners' or property owners' association, which shall be established in
accordance with Section
6.5, Owners' Associations.
      2.   Nonprofit Organization. The landowners may decide to convey a
conservation area to a nonprofit organization such as a land trust or land
conservancy for management and maintenance if the Town is provided adequate
assurance the area will be properly managed and maintained.
      3.   Dedicated to Town or Other Public Agency. In some cases, certain
lands designated as conservation areas, such as greenways, may be dedicated to
the Town, a nonprofit organization, or other public agency during the
development review process, at the landowner's discretion. If offered by the
landowner, the Town Council shall determine whether that land is appropriate
for dedication to the Town or other public agency.
      4.   Development Areas. After identifying the primary and secondary
conservation areas, the development area shall be identified. It is the area
within which development may occur, and shall include the area within the site
where:
         a.   Any clearing or grading activities will take place in accordance
with Section
6.2.4I;
         b.   Ingress and egress will be located;
         c.   Individual or community wells and septic systems may be located
(if not located within the secondary conservation area);
         d.   Streets, utilities, and other similar structures will be located;
and
         e.   All allowable uses may be located.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-44, passed 11-2-2020)
6.2.6.   Evaluation Criteria for Conservation Subdivision Layout
   Conservation subdivisions shall be configured to:
   A.   Protect and preserve all floodways and wetlands;
   B.   Preserve and maintain mature woodlands, existing fields, pastures,
meadows and orchards and creates sufficient buffer areas to minimize conflicts
between residential and other uses;
   C.   Locate development outside of prime agricultural soils, to the maximum
extent practicable;
   D.   Ensure the appearance of development is minimized, to the maximum
possible extent;
   E.   Design around existing hedgerows and tree lines between fields or
meadows;
   F.   Leave scenic views and vistas unblocked or uninterrupted, particularly
as seen from streets;
   G.   Avoid siting new construction on prominent rises or highly visible
areas by taking advantage of lower topographic features;
   H.   Protect wildlife habitat areas of species listed as endangered,
threatened or of special concern by NCDEQ;
   I.   Preserve sites of historic, archaeological, or cultural value
(including spring houses, barn foundations, cellar holes, earthworks, burial
grounds and similar features);
   J.   Include a pedestrian circulation system designed to assure that
pedestrians can walk safely and easily on the site, between properties and
activities or special features within the neighborhood open space system; and
   K.   Consolidate open space into areas that are contiguous, to the maximum
extent practicable.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.3   FEE-IN-LIEU
6.3.1.   Purpose
The purpose for this section is to establish a procedure and standards for
instances where an applicant and the Town agree that a payment-in-lieu of
dedication or construction of infrastructure by the applicant is appropriate
and in closer alignment with the Town's adopted policy guidance of capital
improvement program.
6.3.2.   Procedure
   A.   Required by Town.
      1.   In cases where the Planning Director determines that installation of
a required sidewalk, greenway, bikeway, or other roadway improvement could
conflict with another Town, State, or federal infrastructure project that is
planned or programmed to begin construction within five years, the applicant or
developer shall be required to submit a fee in-lieu of the required
infrastructure element(s).
      2.   Notification of the requirement for provision of a fee-in-lieu shall
be in writing, and shall be delivered to the applicant or developer prior to
the notice of decision on the associated application.
      3.   Upon receipt of notification, and applicant shall provide the
required fee-in-lieu in accordance with Section
6.3.2.B.4, Acceptance of Fee-in-Lieu.
      4.   In the event the conflict necessitating the fee-in-lieu is
eliminated prior to final approval, the fee-in-lieu shall be refunded and the
applicant or developer
shall be required to dedicate the required land or perform the required
installation. The developer or applicant may request the Town retain the funds
in accordance with Section
6.3.2.B, Requested By Applicant.
   B.   Requested by Applicant. In cases where an applicant or developer
desires to receive final approval of development under this Ordinance without
providing land or infrastructure as required, the process for requesting such
approval shall be in accordance with this section.
      1.   File Request.
         a.   An applicant seeking the ability to provide a fee-in-lieu of
making a required dedication or constructing required infrastructure shall file
a written request with the Planning Director prior to the rendering of a
decision on the associated application by the appropriate review authority (see
Table 2.2, Application Review Procedures).
         b.   The request shall include the reasons for the request, the
rationale why a fee-in-lieu is in closer alignment with the Town's adopted
policy guidance, and the estimated value of the land that would otherwise be
dedicated or the estimated cost of completion of the infrastructure in
question, based on current unit prices.
      2.   Staff Review.
         a.   Upon receipt of the request, the Planning Director shall review
the information and notify the applicant if the information provided is
sufficient.
         b.   The Planning Director shall forward the request along with any
supporting information provided by Town staff to the Technical Review Committee
in the event the TRC wishes to consider the request.
      3.   Decision by Planning Director.
         a.   The Planning Director shall decide the request in accordance with
the Town's adopted policy guidance and Section
6.3.4, Review Standards for Fee-ln-Lieu.
         b.   The decision shall be to either accept the request for provision
of fee-in-lieu as offered, accept a modified request for provision of fee-in-
lieu, or deny the request for provision of fee-in-lieu.
      4.   Acceptance of Fee-in-Lieu.
         a.   In cases where a fee-in-lieu is required by the Town or a request
for provision of a fee-in-lieu is accepted by the Planning Director, payment of
a fee-in-lieu shall take place prior to the approval of a final plat or
issuance of the final approval associated with the subdivision.
         b.   All fees collected by the Town pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in Town's revolving fund for purchase of recreation land,
installation of vegetation, or installation of required infrastructure (whether
streets, sidewalks, bikeways, or other infrastructure, as appropriate).
         c.   Use of funds collected in accordance with this section shall only
take place in the general vicinity of where funds are collected and may only be
used for the purchase of in-kind lands or the same type of infrastructure in
accordance with all applicable State and federal law.
         d.   The Planning Director shall maintain records of the amounts
collected, the timing, and the location, which shall be used by the Town as
part of its capital facilities program.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.3.3.   Amount
   A.   Land.
      1.   The fee-in-lieu shall be calculated based upon the total acreage of
land required for dedication.
      2.   The land's assessed value (as determined by the Wake County Tax
Assessor) following subdivision shall be used to arrive at the required
payment-in-lieu amount.
   B.   Infrastructure.
      1.   The amount of fee-in-lieu shall be based on an estimate by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina.
      2.   The estimate shall include the cost of all materials and labor based
on current unit prices.
      3.   Nothing shall prevent the Planning Director from acquiring an
additional estimate for the same infrastructure from another professional
engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina.
      4.   The Planning Director may select the estimate that will form the
basis for the fee-in-lieu payment.
   C.   Vegetation. In cases where a fee-in-lieu is proposed for the
installation of vegetation, the fee amount shall be based upon the unit price
of the vegetation along with all associated labor, transportation, and
incidental costs such as ground cover, staking, and fertilizer, but not
irrigation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.3.4.   Review Standards for Fee-in-Lieu
In determining whether to accept a request for payment of fee-in-lieu, the
Planning Director may rely on any of the following review criteria.
   A.   Park Land.
      1.   There is sufficient public park land in proximity to the proposed
development based on a review of the Town's adopted policy guidance and
information from Town staff;
      2.   Private common open space resources provided on the subject site
will be available for public use and will mitigate park land needs created by
the proposed development;
      3.   Collected funds could be utilized to further improve an existing
park facility in a proximate location;
      4.   The topography or other natural conditions of the site do not
provide adequate opportunities for on-site recreation and park areas;
      5.   The amount of park land to be dedicated is too small to provide
adequate recreation and park opportunities or to be efficiently maintained;
      6.   The intended location of the park land is too far from existing
recreation and park areas to be efficiently maintained; or
      7.   Adequate access is not available to the proposed park land.
   B.   Greenway Land.
      1.   The conditions on the land make installation or operation of a
greenway segment impossible or cost prohibitive for the Town;
      2.   The potential for the connection of a proposed greenway segment to
the Town's greenway network is unlikely within the foreseeable future, in the
opinion of Town staff; or
      3.   There are suitable alternatives to a greenway segment, such as a
multi-purpose trail, in close proximity to the proposed site.
   C.   Streets.
      1.   The proposed street alignment creates a unacceptable environmental
impact; or
      2.   The proposed street is impossible or impractical to build based on
topography, slope, soil conditions, or development patterns on adjacent lands.
   D.   Sidewalks.
      1.   The potential for the connection of a proposed sidewalk segment to
the Town's sidewalk network is unlikely within the foreseeable future, in the
opinion of Town staff; or
      2.   There are suitable alternatives to a sidewalk, such as a greenway,
in close proximity to the proposed site.
   E.   Vegetation.
      1.   The proposed location of vegetation will not support healthy
vegetation due to shading or topographic conditions
      2.   The site where vegetation is proposed is incapable of supporting
additional vegetation due to the presence of exiting vegetation, buildings, or
impervious surfaces.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.4.   GREENWAYS
6.4.1.   Required Greenway Dedication and Construction
   A.   Whenever a tract of land included within any proposed subdivision, site
plan, or planned development master plan includes any part of a greenway
designated in the Town's Greenway Plan or other adopted policy guidance, the
greenway shall be platted and dedicated to the Town as a greenway easement.
   B.   Greenways shall be constructed as part of the required infrastructure
serving a site or a subdivision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.4.2.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Greenways
Only proposed greenways that may cause conflicts with other Town, State, or
federal infrastructure projects may be subject to the requirements for fee-in-
lieu provision in accordance with Section
6.3, Fee-in-Lieu.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.4.3.   Greenway Configuration
Greenways shall be configured in accordance with the Greenway Plan and the
Standard Specifications Manual.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.4.4.   Density Credits
Land that is dedicated in fee-simple interest to and accepted by the Town for
the expressed purpose of establishing a public greenway shall be credited
toward the donating parcel, lot, or tract area for the purpose of calculating
the density of development and area coverage calculations though no longer part
of the parcel.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.4.5.   Open Space Set-Aside Credits
Land area dedicated to the Town for use as a greenway shall be credited towards
applicable active, passive, and urban open space set-aside requirements in
Section
5.7, Open Space.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5   OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION
6.5.1.   Purpose
The purpose of this section is to set out the requirements for establishment of
a homeowners' or property owners' association (hereinafter "association") that
shall be responsible for the long-term maintenance of common areas, common
features, and private infrastructure in a subdivision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.2.   Applicability
The standards in this section shall apply to subdivisions with open space set-
aside(s), lands held under common ownership, or shared responsibility for
common infrastructure where the subdivider or developer will not remain
responsible for maintenance of any of the following lands or infrastructure:
   A.   Stormwater control mechanisms;
   B.   Private potable water systems;
   C.   Private sewage system features (such as pump stations serving only the
development where located);
   D.   Cluster mailbox units;
   E.   Commonly-held off-street parking facilities; and
   F.   Open space set-asides.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.3.   Creation Required
   A.   In cases where a landowner or subdivider will not retain maintenance
responsibility of all lands and site features in a development, a homeowners'
or property owners' association shall be established in areas that have private
open space set-asides or shared private infrastructure.
   B.   Associations established in accordance with these provisions are
required to accept ownership and maintenance responsibility of all open space
set-aside(s), shared infrastructure, or common areas within a development.
   C.   The association shall be in legal existence prior to the transfer of
maintenance responsibility.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.4.   Responsibilities of Association
Upon transfer of maintenance responsibility, the association shall be
responsible for:
   A.   Liability insurance and payment of premiums for liability insurance and
local taxes;
   B.   Maintenance of all common elements including, but not limited to,
private utilities, private drives, private sidewalks and trails, private
streetlights, and private common recreation facilities shown on the preliminary
and final plats;
   C.   Maintenance of public streets until such time as the Town or NCDOT
agrees to accept the responsibility for street maintenance; and
   D.   Maintenance of a fund intended for the maintenance and repair of
community facilities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.5.   Procedure for Association Establishment
   A.   Documents for the creation of the association shall be submitted to the
Town for review and approval prior to approval of the final plat (see Section
2.2.10, Final Plat). Documentation shall include, but not be limited to the
information in Section
6.5.6, Documentation Requirements.
   B.   The association shall be established by the subdivider prior to
transfer of maintenance responsibility.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.6.   Documentation Requirements
   A.   The association documents submitted to the Town for review and approval
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A declaration of all restrictive covenants, if proposed;
      2.   A declaration of all deed restrictions, if proposed;
      3.   A declaration that the association is responsible for liability
insurance and all applicable taxes;
      4.   A declaration of common ownership and maintenance responsibilities
of all on-site improvements not dedicated to a local or state agency, including
but not limited to drainage systems, wastewater systems, open space set-aside
areas, recreational facilities, and private infrastructure;
      5.   A description of the structural organization and operating
procedures of the association;
      6.   Association by-laws;
      7.   A legal description of all open space set-asides and other lands
owned in common;
      8.   Provisions establishing the legal authority of the association to
maintain control over all common areas, common features, and private
infrastructure in the subdivision, following transfer of control by the
subdivider;
      9.   Provisions authorizing the association to compel contributions from
owners in the development to cover their proportionate share of maintenance
costs associated with common areas, common features, and private
infrastructure;
      10.   Provisions authorizing the association to increase the amount of
mandatory fees or assessments, when necessary, for the continued maintenance of
common areas, common features, or private infrastructure;
      11.   Provisions authorizing the association to convert any member's
unpaid assessments into a lien on the real property; and
      12.   Evidence related to the establishment of a fund to support the
continued maintenance and upkeep of common areas, common features, and private
infrastructure.
   B.   Following approval of the required documentation by the Town, the
subdivider shall record all required documentation with the Wake County
Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.7.   Membership Requirements
   A.   Following establishment of the association by the subdivider,
membership in the association shall be automatic and mandatory for all
purchasers of land within the subdivision and their successors in title.
   B.   All members of an association shall be responsible for contributions to
the association's reserve fund to cover their proportionate share of
maintenance costs associated with common areas, common features, and private
infrastructure.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.8.   Transfer of Maintenance Responsibility
The subdivider shall be responsible for maintenance of all common areas, common
features, and private infrastructure until maintenance responsibility is
transferred to the association in accordance with the standards in this
section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.5.9.   Failure to Maintain is a Violation
Failure to maintain common areas, common features, or infrastructure is a
violation of this Ordinance and is subject to the penalties and remedies in
Article 8: Enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
6.6.1.   Purpose and Intent 
These standards create the additional flexibility necessary for development to
be occupied or for lots in a subdivision to be conveyed prior to completion of
all required infrastructure or site improvements, provided funds have been
reserved for completion of these features. These provisions ensure that funds
are available for the Town's use to complete required pubic infrastructure or
private site features in the event an applicant or developer is unable to do
so.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.2.   Eligible Facilities and Features
   A.   The following facilities and site features may be eligible for
performance guarantees at the discretion of the Town:
      1.   Public Facilities. The following forms of public infrastructure may
be completed subject to a performance guarantee:
         a.   Sidewalks;
         b.   Greenways;
         c.   Multi-use paths; or
         d.   The final lift of asphalt on a street.
      2.   Private Site Features.
         a.   The following forms of private site features may be completed
subject to a performance guarantee:
            i.   Required landscaping;
            ii.   Private stormwater management facilities; and
            iii.   Reforestation activity (see Section
5.9.4.B, Reforestation Standards).
         b.   All other required site features shall be completed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the development.
   B.   Performance guarantees shall be configured and managed in accordance
with the standards in this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.3.   Ineligible Facilities
The following infrastructure facilities are not eligible for performance
guarantees, and shall be completed and dedicated to the Town prior to approval
of the final plat:
   A.   Potable water;
   B.   Sanitary sewer;
   C.   Public stormwater management facilities;
   D.   Curb and gutter;
   E.   Street signs, traffic control signals, and
   F.   Street lights.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.4.   Maximum Term of Guarantee
Performance guarantees associated with landscaping or reforestation shall have
a maximum term of one year, otherwise there shall be no maximum term or
expiration for other performance guarantees.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.5.   Form of Guarantee
   A.   The applicant shall determine the form(s) of the performance guarantee,
which shall be provided in one or more of the following forms:
      1.   Cash or Irrevocable (Evergreen) Letter of Credit.
         a.   The developer shall deposit cash or an irrevocable (or
"evergreen") letter of credit either with the Town or in escrow with a North
Carolina financial institution.
         b.   If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with a
financial institution, an agreement between the financial institution and the
developer shall be filed with the Town guaranteeing the following:
            i.   That the escrow account shall be held in trust until released
by the Town and may not be used or pledged by the developer for any other
matter during the term of the escrow; and
            ii.   That in case of a failure on the part of the developer to
complete or repair the improvements, the financial institution shall, upon
notification by the Town, immediately pay the funds deemed necessary by the
Town to complete or repair the improvements up to the full balance of the
escrow account, or deliver to the Town any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the Town.
            iii.   The financial institution holding the cash or other
instrument shall indicate to the Town its notification requirements for release
or payment of funds.
      2.   Surety Bond.
         a.   The developer shall obtain a surety bond from a surety bonding
company authorized to issue surety bonds in North Carolina.
         b.   The bond shall be payable to the Town and shall be in an amount
as required by this subsection.
      3.   Other Guarantee. The developer may provide another form of guarantee
that provides equivalent security to a surety bond or letter of credit, as
determined by the Town Attorney.
   B.   The performance guarantee shall distinguish between the portion of the
guarantee provided for public infrastructure improvements as well as the
portion of the guarantee provided for private site improvements, if applicable.
   C.   The performance guarantee shall be conditioned on the performance of
all work necessary to complete the installation of the required improvements
within the term of the guarantee.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.6.   Administration of Guarantees
   A.   Guarantees Associated with Reforestation or Landscaping. The Planning
Director shall process, review, and decide performance guarantee requests
associated with reforestation or landscaping.
   B.   Guarantees Associated with Public Infrastructure. The Town Engineer
shall process, review, and decide performance guarantee requests associated
with public infrastructure.
   C.   Guarantees Associated with Stormwater. The Stormwater Administrator
shall process, review, and decide performance guarantee requests associated
with stormwater-related provisions.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.7.   Amount of Guarantee
   A.   Generally. Performance guarantees shall be in an amount equal to 125
percent of the estimated cost of completing the installation of the required
improvements, including the costs of materials, labor, and project management.
   B.   Estimated Costs. Estimated costs of completing installation of required
public improvements, landscaping or reforestation, or stormwater measures shall
be itemized by improvement type and certified by the developer's licensed
professional engineer that is consistent with the NCDOT Bid Tab Average for the
year in which the guarantee is requested, and is subject to approval in
accordance with Section
6.6.6, Administration of Guarantees.
   C.   Renewal. If a performance guarantee is renewed, the appropriate Town
official (see Section
6.6.6, Administration of Guarantees) may require the amount of the performance
guarantee be updated to reflect changes in cost over time.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.8.   Release or Reduction of Guarantee
   A.   Release Requested. The appropriate Town official (see Section
6.6.6, Administration of Guarantees) shall release or reduce a performance
guarantee only after:
      1.   The owner or developer has submitted to the Town a written request
for a release or reduction of the performance guarantee that includes
certification by the owner's or developer's engineer or contractor, whichever
is appropriate, that installation of the guaranteed improvements has been
completed in accordance with approved plans and specifications, and as-builts
(if applicable);
      2.   Town staff has performed an inspection of the improvements and
certified in writing that installation of the guaranteed improvements is
completed in accordance with approved plans and specifications; and
      3.   No release or reduction in performance guarantee amounts will be
considered until more than 25 percent of the work is in place and approved.
   B.   Acceptance shall be Documented. The appropriate Town official (see
Section
6.6.6, Administration of Guarantees) shall provide written notice of the Town's
final acceptance of the improvements subject to performance guarantees.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.9.   Improper Release of Performance Guarantees
If the Town releases a performance guarantee through error, the error shall not
release the developer from responsibility for the completion of all
improvements in accordance with this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.10.   Forfeiture of Guarantee
   A.   Notice of Failure to Install or Complete Improvements. If the owner or
developer fails to complete installation of the guaranteed improvements within
the term of the performance guarantee (as may be extended), the appropriate
Town official (see Section
6.6.6, Administration of Guarantees) shall give the owner or developer 30 day's
written notice of the scope and degree of the default, by certified mail.
   B.   Town Completion of Improvements. After the 30-day notice period
expires, the Town may draw on the guarantee and use the funds to perform the
work necessary to complete installation of the guaranteed improvements. After
completing such work, the Town shall provide a complete accounting of the
expenditures to the owner or developer. In the event of a default triggering
the use of the performance guarantee, the Town shall return any of the unused
deposited cash funds or other security.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.6.11.   As-Built Plans Required
   A.   Public Improvements. Upon completion of a public infrastructure
project, the developer shall certify to the Town Engineer that the completed
project has been constructed in accordance with the approved plans and shall
submit actual "as built" plans for all public improvements after final
construction is completed.
   B.   Stormwater Management Facilities. Upon completion of a private
stormwater management facility, the developer shall certify to the Stormwater
Administrator that the completed project is in accordance with the approved
plans and shall submit actual "as built" plans after final construction is
completed. The plans shall show the final design specifications for all
improvements and the field location, size, depth, and related measures,
controls and devices, as installed. The designer shall certify, under seal,
that the as-built design, measures, controls, and devices are in compliance
with the approved plans and with the requirements of this Ordinance.
   C.   Inspection Required. A final inspection and approval by the appropriate
Town official (see Section
6.6.6, Administration of Guarantees) shall occur before the release of the
performance guarantee.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.7.   RESERVATION OF PUBLIC LANDS
6.7.1.   Reservation of School Sites
   A.   If a proposed subdivision of 40 or more lots includes a school site
that is designated in the Land Use Plan (in accordance with Section 160D-804 of
the North Carolina General Statutes) or some other long range document adopted
by the Board of Commissioners, the Town shall immediately notify the Wake
County Board of Educatio
   B.   If the Board of Education determines the school site does not need to
be reserved, it shall not be required as part of the subdivision.
   C.   If the Board of Education determines the school site needs to be
reserved to accommodate a new school, the subdivision shall not be approved
without reservation of the school site. If the school site is reserved, the
Board of Education must acquire the site within 18 months after the date the
site is reserved, or the subdivider may treat the reservation as null and void
as authorized by Section 160D-804 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.7.2.   Dedication of Land for Public Parks
Subdivisions of land for 30 or more single-family residential lots shall be
required to dedicate a portion of land, or pay a fee-in-lieu thereof, for
public parkland, in accordance with the standards of this section.
   A.   Dedication Amount.
      1.   Single-family residential subdivisions of 30 or more lots shall
dedicate 1,000 square feet of land per residential lot to the Town for its use
in developing public parkland.
      2.   No credit towards required parkland dedication is given for 404
wetlands or other lands mandated for preservation by federal or state
requirements.
      3.   No more than 25 percent of the total dedication requirement may be
met through dedication of water areas.
   B.   Procedure for Dedication or Payment.
      1.   The developer shall identify land proposed for dedication on the
preliminary plat, or propose payment of an in-lieu fee as part of the
application for approval of a preliminary plat.
      2.   The Board of Commissioners shall review the proposed application and
determine if it complies with the standards in Section
6.7.2.C, Nature of Area to be Dedicated, or Section
6.3, Fee-in-Lieu, as appropriate. The decision to accept dedication or payment-
in-lieu is up to the sole discretion of the Board of Commissioners.
      3.   Land shall be dedicated prior to recording the first final plat for
the subdivision, or the payment-in-lieu shall be paid prior to recording the
first final plat for the subdivision for which the payment-in-lieu is paid.
   C.   Nature of Area to be Dedicated. All lands proposed for dedication as
recreation and park areas shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Unity. The dedicated land shall be a single parcel of land, whether
the subdivision is developed in phases or sections, except where it is
determined by the BOC that multiple parcels would better serve Town residents.
      2.   Usability. Public parkland must be flat, well-drained, usable land
for a park, as determined by the BOC. In cases where dedication includes an
area of water, public access to all portions of a water feature shall be
provided and maintained, regardless of water feature's size.
      3.   Shape. The dedicated land shall be of a shape that supports
gathering and recreation activities.
      4.   Location.
         a.   The dedicated parkland shall be located so it can reasonably
serve the park needs of the residents of the subdivision and immediate area.
         b.   The BOC may require that the land dedicated be located on the
periphery of the development in order to allow enlargement by combining the
recreation and park area with adjacent development or park facilities, existing
or planned.
      5.   Access.
         a.   All dwelling units in the subdivision and residents in the
immediate area shall have access to and from the parkland provided by means of
streets and public walkways or trails.
         b.   Rights-of-way for this access shall be shown on the preliminary
and final plats.
         c.   All dedicated lands shall have access by way of a street. Such
access can be provided when the dedicated land is adjacent to existing or
proposed public parkland with street access.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.8.   SIDEWALKS
Sidewalks shall be configured in accordance with the following standards:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.8.1.   Location
Sidewalks are required in accordance with the Town's Pedestrian Plan and the
following standards:
   A.   Both sides of the street.
      1.   Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of all streets in the
residential, mixed-use, and NC, GC, and HC districts.
      2.   Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of all principal or
minor arterial streets, regardless of the zoning district where located.
   B.   One side of the street.
      1.   Sidewalks, at a minimum, shall be required on one side of the street
in the LI, IC, and HI districts.
      2.   When sidewalks are required on one side of the street, they shall
generally be located on the side of the street to best continue existing
sidewalk networks, if present.
      3.   On local streets within a conservation subdivision;
      4.   Where there is no clear preferable street side for the placement of
a sidewalk, the sidewalk shall be placed on the street side where it is least
likely to have a negative impact on stormwater management, in the opinion of
the Planning Director.
   C.   No sidewalks required. No sidewalks shall be required in the following
locations:
      1.   In the R1 district;
      2.   Along alleys and accessways to individual lots not served by a
street;
      3.   Where an existing or proposed all-weather surface trail or
pedestrian pathway can provide an equivalent level of pedestrian circulation;
and
      4.   In cases where environmental or topographic conditions make required
sidewalk provision impossible, an alternative design shall be considered by the
Planning Director.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-45, passed 11-2-2020)
6.8.2.   Configuration
   A.   Sidewalks shall be at least four feet in width and configured in
accordance with the Town of Zebulon's specifications.
   B.   Sidewalks and pedestrian pathways shall connect with existing or
planned sidewalks at property boundaries.
   C.   New nonresidential, mixed-use, and multi-family development shall
provide at least one on-site improved connection between the development and
the adjacent public sidewalk system (planned or existing).
   D.   Whenever curb and gutter construction is used on public streets,
wheelchair ramps for the disabled, configured in accordance with Town or NCDOT
standards, as applicable, shall be provided at intersections and other major
points of pedestrian flow in accordance with Section 136-44.14 of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.8.3.   Credit for Trails
Hard-surfaced, ADA-accessible trails within open space set-asides shall be
credited towards these sidewalk requirements when trails connect developments
or connect open space set-asides to schools, shopping areas, or other
recreation areas.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.8.4.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Sidewalks
Only those proposed sidewalks that may cause conflicts with other Town, State,
or federal infrastructure projects may be subject to the requirements for fee-
in-lieu provision in accordance with Section
6.3, Fee-in-Lieu.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.9.   SOIL EROSION & SEDIMENTATION
6.9.1.   Natural Drainage System Utilized to the Extent Feasible
   A.   To the extent practicable, all development shall conform to the natural
contours of the land and natural and preexisting human-made drainage ways shall
remain undisturbed.
   B.   To the extent practicable, lot boundaries shall be made to coincide
with natural and preexisting human-made drainage ways within subdivisions to
avoid creation of lots that can be built upon only by altering the drainage
ways.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.9.2.   Development must Drain Properly
   A.   All development shall be provided with a drainage system that is
adequate to prevent the undue retention of surface water on the development
site. Surface water shall not be regarded as unduly retained if:
      1.   The retention results from a technique, practice or device
deliberately installed as part of an approved sedimentation or storm water
runoff control plan; or
      2.   The retention is not substantially different in location or degree
than that experienced by the development site in its pre-development stage,
unless the retention presents a danger to health or safety.
   B.   No surface water may be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer.
   C.   Whenever practicable, the drainage system of a development shall
coordinate with and connect to the drainage systems or drainage ways on
surrounding properties or streets.
   D.   Use of drainage swales rather than curb and gutter and storm sewers in
subdivisions is provided elsewhere. Private roads and access ways within
unsubdivided developments shall utilize curb and gutter and storm drains to
provide adequate drainage if the grade of the roads or access ways is too steep
to provide drainage in another manner or if other sufficient reasons exist to
require the construction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.9.3.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan Required
Any development subject to a site plan, preliminary plat, or final plat that
requires land disturbing activity of one acre in area or more shall require
prior approval of an erosion and sedimentation control plan by the Wake County
Inspections Division in accordance with The Wake County Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Ordinance and Section 113A-57(4) of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.9.4.   Exemptions
Section
6.9.3, Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan Required, shall not apply in
cases where the Wake County Inspections Division or the State Sedimentation
Control Commission has certified to the Town that:
   A.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan for the associated project
has already been submitted to and approved by the County or the Commission; or
   B.   The Wake County Inspections Department or the State Sedimentation
Control Commission has examined the preliminary plans for the development and
it reasonably appears that an erosion and sedimentation control plan can be
approved upon submission by the developer of more detailed construction or
design drawings. However, in this case, construction of the development may not
begin (and no building permits may be issued) until the County or the
Commission approves the erosion and sedimentation control plan.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.9.5.   Timing of Review
An applicant for development subject to this section shall submit proof of an
approved erosion and sedimentation control plan prior to issuance of a grading
permit, building permit, or final plat, as appropriate.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.   STREETS
6.10.1.   Compliance with Guiding Documents
   A.   All streets and street-related infrastructure in the Town's
jurisdiction shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the Town's
adopted policy guidance, including, but not limited to the following:
      1.   The Comprehensive Transportation Plan;
      2.   The Functional Classification Map, as amended;
      3.   The Town of Zebulon's Engineering Specifications and Standard
Details Manual; and
      4.   Any applicable North Carolina Department of Transportation
requirements.
   B.   All streets and rights-of-way shall be constructed in accordance with
the standards established for the particular type of street in question by the
Town of Zebulon, unless a higher or more restrictive standard is established by
NCDOT, in which case the street shall meet that higher or more restrictive
standard.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.2.   Street Classification
   A.   All streets dedicated to public use shall be classified in accordance
with
Table 6.10.2: Street Classification:
TABLE 6.10.2: STREET CLASSIFICATION
Street Type [1] [2] Description
TABLE 6.10.2: STREET CLASSIFICATION
Street Type [1] [2] Description
                    Interstates are the highest classification of arterials
                    streets and are designed and are constructed with mobility
                    and long distance travel in mind. Access is controlled,
                    intersections are grade-separated, and roadways are
Interstate          designed for high-speed travel. Roadways in this functional
                    classification category connect the Town to other
                    destinations in the State and connect major activity
                    centers in the Town to one another. Interstates carry the
                    highest traffic volumes.
                    These streets provide a high degree of mobility both within
                    the Town's urban areas as well as through neighboring rural
                    areas. While principal arterials do provide direct access
                    to adjacent land uses along their alignments, their primary
                    function is to facilitate the movement of vehicles from one
                    part of the Town's jurisdiction to another. Principal
                    arterials are found in the most urban or intense parts of
Principal Arterial  the Town and are generally not located within residential
                    neighborhoods, office centers, or industrial parks.
                    Vehicles move at moderate speeds and four-way intersections
                    are often signal-controlled. These streets include at-grade
                    intersections with other streets, but driveways to
                    individual lots are kept to a minimum. The average number
                    of vehicles trips can vary widely based on the urban or
                    rural location of an arterial street.
                    Minor arterial streets connect principal arterial streets
                    to one another and provide for vehicle trips of moderate
                    length within geographic areas smaller than those served by
Minor Arterial      principal arterials. Minor arterials help to distribute
                    vehicle trips across the Town and provide much more direct
                    access to individual lots and land uses via driveways.
                    Normally, the spacing of arterial streets should not exceed
                    one mile in fully developed areas.
                    Major collector streets gather traffic from local streets
                    and funnel it to the arterial street network. They serve as
                    traffic circulators as well as facilitators of direct
                    vehicular access to individual land uses such as multi-
                    family residential, commercial, and industrial
                    developments. Major collector streets may also serve larger
                    single-family residential neighborhoods. Most vehicular
Major Collector     trips on a major collector street are longer than three-
                    quarters of a mile. Collector streets accommodate higher
                    vehicle speeds than local streets and often have a blend of
                    signalized and non-signalized intersections in addition to
                    individual driveways for larger developments. In rural
                    areas, major collectors often facilitate intra-county
                    travel of distances shorter than those typical to an
                    arterial street.
                    Minor collectors also gather or collect traffic from local
                    streets and connect it with the larger arterial street
                    network. Most vehicular trips on minor collector streets
                    are less than three-quarters of a mile. Typically, minor
                    collector streets are shorter than major collectors, have
Minor Collector     fewer travel lanes, have a lower density of individual
                    driveway access points, are designed for lower traffic
                    speeds, and are spaced at greater intervals than major
                    collectors. At the same time, the total lane mileage of
                    minor collector streets in a community is greater than the
                    total mileage of major collector streets.
                    Local streets occupy the largest percentage of lane miles
                    across all types of streets and primarily provide direct
                    access to individual lots. Local streets are often
Local               configured to discourage through traffic, though local
                    streets can also effectively disperse local traffic when
                    configured as part of a highly connected network offering
                    multiple routes.
Cul-de-Sac          A dead-end local street that terminates in a vehicular
                    turnaround.
                    A secondary street that provides direct access to a limited
Alley               number of individual lots or land uses. In most cases,
                    access is provided to the side or rear of the lot served by
                    the alley.
Notes:
[1] The classification shall be based upon the function of the street and
projected volume of traffic to be carried by the street, stated in terms of the
number of trips per day.
[2] The types of streets and their general locations are depicted on the NC
Capital Area Metropolitan Planning Organization's Functional Classification
Map, as amended.
 
   B.   New streets constructed in the Town's jurisdiction shall be designated
in accordance with
Table 6.10.2: Street Classification.
   C.   Whenever a street within a new development continues an existing street
that formerly terminated outside the development or it is expected that a new
street will be continued beyond the development at some future time, the
classification of the street will be based upon the street in its entirety,
both within and outside of the development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.3.   Street Rights-of-Way
All new streets established in the Town's jurisdiction after November 1, 2019,
shall include a minimum street right-of-way configured in accordance with the
Town of Zebulon's Engineering Specifications and Standard Details Manual, and
Table 6.10.3: Minimum Street Right-of-Way Requirements.
Table 6.10.3: Minimum Street Right-of-way Requirements
Street Type Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet) [1] [2]
Table 6.10.3: Minimum Street Right-of-way Requirements
Street Type        Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet) [1] [2]
Principal Arterial 80
Minor Arterial     70
Major Collector    60
Minor Collector    60
Local              50
Cul-de-Sac         50
Alley              20
NOTES:
[1] The street right-of-way shall include curb and gutter, sidewalks, multi-
use paths, bicycle lanes (where indicated), and associated utility strips.
[2] Minimum rights-of-way may need to be wider to accommodate all forms of
planned infrastructure in accordance with the Town's adopted policy guidance.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.4.   Dedication and Construction
   A.   All lands associated with a street right-of-way shall be dedicated to
the Town or the State as a part of the development process in accordance with
Section 136-66.10 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   B.   The subdivider or developer shall be responsible for the construction
and installation of all streets and infrastructure in accordance with the
applicable development approval, NCDOT standards, the standards in this
Ordinance, and any applicable state or federal requirements.
   C.   No road construction or improvements shall commence until a plan
showing the proposed roadway improvements is approved by the TRC in writing and
a construction plan is approved by the Town Engineer.
   D.   All streets shall be improved to the full width, cross section, and
profile, including paving, curb and gutter, and related improvements as
specified in the development approval, this Ordinance, the Town's adopted
policy guidance, State or federal law, and any other applicable provisions.
   E.   Land associated with a street right-of-way shall not be credited
towards allowable residential density in accordance with Section
9.3.6, Residential Density.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.5.   Payment In-Lieu of Providing Road Improvements
Only those proposed streets, bikeways, or other road improvements that may
cause conflicts with other Town, State, or federal infrastructure projects may
be subject to the requirements for fee-in-lieu provision in accordance with
Section
6.3, Fee-in-Lieu.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.6.   Private Streets
   A.   New Streets. All streets constructed, extended, or modified after
January 1, 2020, shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in accordance
with the standards for public streets. Private streets shall not be constructed
as part of development within the Town's planning jurisdiction.
   B.   Existing Streets.
      1.   Neither the Town of Zebulon or NCDOT shall be responsible for
maintenance of private streets existing on or after January 1, 2020.
      2.   Private streets may be marked with signage indicating where Town or
State maintenance responsibility stops.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.7.   Street Design
   A.   General Layout.
      1.   The layout, arrangement, width, grade, character, and location of
streets shall conform to the Town's adopted policy guidance, topographic
conditions, natural features, and drainage systems.
      2.   When a development abuts or contains an existing or proposed
interstate or arterial, the TRC may require frontage streets, reverse frontage
with landscape plantings, or other treatment as may be necessary for adequate
protection of residential properties and to ensure separation of through and
local traffic.
      3.   Reserve strips or parcels controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited, except where required as part of development on a double-frontage
lot.
   B.   Compliance with Access and Circulation Standards. New streets and
changes to existing streets located within a single lot or tract shall also be
subject to the standards in Section
5.1, Access and Circulation.
   C.   Compliance with Transportation Impact Analysis Findings. In cases where
new development is subject to a requirement to prepare a transportation impact
analysis in accordance with Section
6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, all streets and street-related
infrastructure shall comply with the findings of the analysis.
   D.   Street Intersections. Street intersections shall be configured in
accordance with the following standards (see
Figure 6.10.7.D: Street Intersections):
      1.   Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one point unless
the Town or NCDOT certifies that such an intersection can be constructed with
no extraordinary danger to public safety.
      2.   Streets shall intersect at right angles to the maximum extent
practicable, and no two streets shall intersect at less than 60 degrees.
      3.   Whenever possible, proposed intersections along one side of a street
shall coincide with existing or proposed intersections on the opposite side of
the street.
      4.   Where a street center line offset (jog) occurs at an intersection,
the distance between centerlines of the intersecting streets shall be not less
than 125 feet.
      5.   Except when no other alternative is practicable or legally possible,
no two streets may intersect with any other street on the same side at a
distance of less than 200 feet measured from centerline to centerline of the
intersecting street. When the intersected street is an arterial, the distance
between intersecting streets shall be at least 1,000 feet, unless no other
alternative is practicable.
      6.   Property lines at street intersections shall be shown as a chord
connecting points not less than 15 feet back from the street intersection along
each street right-of-way line. Longer setbacks for chord connections for
property lines may be required by the TRC as needed for public safety.
      7.   In commercial developments the Town may assign traffic control to
thru traffic within 500 feet of the point of access to the public right-of-way.
      8.   Alleys are required to provide a vehicular turn-around or connect to
another street or alley.
Figure 6.10.7.D: Street Intersections
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-442.jpg]
   E.   Block Length and Width.
      1.   Block Length. Except for arterial streets, or where otherwise
required by the NCDOT, intersecting streets shall be laid out at such intervals
that block lengths do not exceed 700 linear feet.
      2.   Block Width.
         a.   The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to allow two
tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
         b.   Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be of such
width as to be considered most suitable for their respective use, including
adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries (see
Figure 6.10.7.E: Block Configuration).
Figure 6.10.7.E: Block Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-444.jpg]
   F.   Street Grade. Street grades shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Streets and their associated gutters shall maintain grade levels in
accordance with
Table 6.10.7.F: Maximum and Minimum Street Grade.
 
Table 6.10.7.F: Maximum and Minimum Street Grade
Street Type                   Maximum Grade Minimum Grade
Principal and Minor Arterials 6%            Not less than 1%
Major and Minor Collectors    8%
Local Streets                 12%           Not less than 1%
 
      2.   Street and intersection approaches shall not have grades in excess
of three percent for a distance of 100 feet from the intersection of center
lines in all directions for all streets.
      3.   All changes in grades for local streets and collectors shall be
connected by a vertical curve of a minimum length of 40 times the algebraic
difference in the percents of grade ("k" value). Stop conditions shall have a
minimum "k" value of 14 times the algebraic difference of the percents of
grade. "k" values for arterials shall be per the AASHTO Geometric Design of
Highways and Streets based on design speed.
      4.   The Town Engineer may consider deviations from these standards based
on topographic conditions or public safety concerns.
   G.   Street Curves. Street curves shall maintain the minimum radii
established in
Table 6.10.7.G: Minimum Curve Radii and Tangents:
 
TABLE 6.10.7.G: MINIMUM CURVE RADII AND TANGENTS
                                                Minimum Tangent Distance
Street Type                Minimum Radii (Feet) Between Reverse Curves on the
                                                Same Street (Feet)
Principal and Minor        600                  150
Arterials
Major and Minor Collectors 400                  100
Local Streets              150                  0
 
   H.   Street Connectivity.
      1.   The arrangement of streets in a development shall provide for the
alignment and continuation of existing or proposed streets into adjoining lands
in those cases in which the adjoining lands are undeveloped and deemed
appropriate by the Planning Director for future development or in which the
adjoining lands are developed and include opportunities for such connections.
      2.   Street rights-of-way shall be extended to or along adjoining
property boundaries such that a roadway connection or street stub shall be
provided for development where practicable and feasible in each direction
(north, south, east, and west) for development which abuts vacant lands.
      3.   Arterial and collector streets shall intersect with surrounding
collector or arterial streets at safe and convenient locations, as determined
by the NCDOT and Planning Director.
      4.   At all locations where streets terminate with no street connection,
but a future connection is planned or accommodated, a sign shall be installed
at the location with the words "FUTURE ROAD CONNECTION" to inform property
owners.
      5.   The final plat shall identify all stub streets and include a
notation that all street stubs are intended for connection with future streets
on adjoining undeveloped or underdeveloped lands.
      6.   The use of residential strips of land in order to prevent the
extension of proposed or existing streets or access thereto is prohibited.
      7.   Where access to a subdivision site is by a street that does not meet
State standards, that street shall be improved by the developer in order to
meet current State standards.
   I.   Development Entry Points.
      1.   Unless exempted in accordance with subsection (4) below, all
subdivisions shall provide streets from the development to the street system
outside the development in accordance with
Table 6.10.7.I: Required Points of Access:
Table 6.10.7.I: Required Points of Access
                                                     Minimum Number of
Type of Development       Development Size           Vehicular Access Points
                                                     [2]
                          50 or fewer lots           l
Residential and Mixed-Use 51 to 200                  2
Development               201 or more                2 + 1 per every additional
                                                     100 lots
Non-Residential           Less than 5 acres or fewer 1
Development, other than   then 10 lots
Industrial                More than 5 acres          2
NOTES:
[1] Points of access shall refer to streets, not driveways.
[2] Additional vehicular access points may be required where determined
necessary by the Town.
 
      2.   Nothing in this section shall limit the total number of streets
providing access to the street system outside a development, or exempt a
development from meeting all applicable street connectivity standards.
      3.   Street stubs shall be credited as an access point when all ingress
or egress to a development is only available from a single arterial or
collector street.
      4.   Development shall be exempted from these standards if it is
demonstrated the following conditions apply:
         a.   A transportation impact analysis allows a deviation;
         b.   No other street access points can be located due to existing lot
configurations, absence of connecting streets, environmental, or topographic
constraints;
         c.   NCDOT will not authorize the required number of entrances; or
         d.   Alternative access can be provided in a manner acceptable to the
Town that is supported by a transportation impact analysis.
   J.   Cul-de-Sac Design.
      1.   Cul-de-sac length that shall be in accordance with the standards in
Table 6.10.7J: Maximum Cul-de-Sac Length:
TABLE 6.10.7.J: MAXIMUM CUL-DE-SAC LENGTH
Zoning District     Maximum Cul-de-Sac Length (linear feet) [1]
R1 & R2             1,000
R4                  800
R6 & RMF            200
DTP                 500
All Other Districts 800
NOTES:
[1] In cases where a cul-de-sac street segment cross more than one zoning
district, the more restrictive length standard shall apply.
 
      2.   All permanent cul-de-sacs or other dead-end streets shall be
provided at the closed end with a turn-around configured in accordance with the
Town of Zebulon's specifications.
      3.   Dead-end streets intended to be continued at a later time shall be
provided with a turnaround as required for a dead-end street when required by
the Planning Director.
      4.   Only that portion to be required as right-of-way when the street is
continued shall be dedicated and made a public street.
   K.   Street Knuckles or Bulb-Outs. If knuckles or bulb outs are provided as
a part of new development, they shall comply with all applicable Town
requirements.
   L.   Half Streets. Half streets along property lines shall be prohibited
except that whenever a half street already exists adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within the tract to
be subdivided.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-1-2020)
6.10.8.   Street Drainage
   A.   All required drainage facilities shall be constructed prior to
consideration of a final plat.
   B.   Storm sewers, drains, and structures installed by the subdivider shall
be installed of a size, type, and in locations as approved by the Planning
Director or NCDOT, as appropriate.
   C.   Street drainage facilities located outside the street right-of-way
shall be maintained by the developer, the landowner, or an owners' association,
and maintenance responsibility shall be noted on the final plat.
   D.   The Town shall not be responsible for any private or commonly-held
subdivision drainage infrastructure connected to publically-maintained drainage
facilities, streams, or other outlets having constant flow.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.9.   Street Signs
   A.   The Town shall install standard street signs as part of new
development.
   B.   In cases where decorative street signs are proposed, the developer or
subdivider shall be responsible for the cost of the decorative street signs.
   C.   Decorative street signs shall be approved as to form and content by the
Town prior to installation.
   D.   Street name signs shall conform to Town and NCDOT standards.
   E.   At least two street name signs shall be placed at each four-way street
intersection and at least one at each "T" intersection.
   F.   Street signs shall be installed on the northwest and southeast corners
of every four-way intersection.
   G.   Signs shall be installed free of visual obstruction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.10.   Traffic Control Signs and Signals
   A.   If deemed necessary by the Town or by NCDOT, signals shall be installed
by the developer at each street intersection within the subdivision and at each
intersection of a subdivision street and a state-maintained road or access
road.
   B.   Signs and signals shall comply with NCDOT regulations with regards to
size, shape, color, location and information contained thereon.
   C.   At least two or more traffic-control signs shall be placed at each
four-way street intersection and at least one at each "T" intersection.
   D.   Signs and signals shall be installed free of visual obstruction.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.11.   Street Lights
   A.   Streets and sidewalks shall be illuminated with street lights or
pedestrian lighting for security and safety, in accordance with Town, utility
company, and NCDOT standards.
   B.   Areas adjacent to the vehicular entrances for non-residential, mixed-
use, and multi-family residential developments containing more than four
dwelling units shall be adequately lighted to ensure the safety of persons and
the security of the buildings.
   C.   Exterior lighting located outside of a street right-of-way shall be
configured in accordance with the standards in Section
5.4, Exterior Lighting.
   D.   Illumination requirements must be met prior to issuance of an occupancy
permit.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.12.   Vehicular Gates
   A.   Gates to private property shall conform to Town requirements for
emergency access and be served by a vehicular turnaround.
   B.   Proposed gates shall be reviewed and decided by the Planning Director.
   C.   All bridges shall be designed by a professional engineer licensed by
the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.10.13.   Bridges
All bridges shall be designed by a professional engineer licensed by the State
of North Carolina.
6.10.14.   Dams
   A.   Public streets that traverse a dam shall be approved by the Planning
Director and construction plans for the street shall be approved by the
applicable state review agency.
   B.   Maintenance of a dam structure shall be the responsibility of the
developer or an owners' association.
   C.   The party responsible for dam maintenance shall provide a performance
guarantee for the dam's maintenance in perpetuity in accordance with the
standards in Section
6.6, Performance Guarantees.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.11.   STORMWATER
6.11.1.   Generally
All developments shall be constructed and maintained so that adjacent
properties are not unreasonable burdened with surface waters as a result of
development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.11.2.   Higher Adjacent Lands
No development shall be constructed or maintained in ways that unreasonably
impedes the natural flow of water from higher adjacent lands across the
development, thereby causing substantial damage to those higher adjacent
properties.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.11.3.   Lower Adjacent Lands
No development shall be constructed or maintained so that surface waters from
the development are unreasonably collected and then channeled into lower
adjacent properties at location or volumes so as to cause substantial damage to
those lower adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.   SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
6.12.1.   Subdivision Name
Every subdivision shall be given a name that shall not duplicate or be similar
to that of any other subdivision existing or previously planned within the
Town's planning jurisdiction or Wake County.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.2.   Reasonable Relationship
All required improvements, easements, and rights-of-way (other than required
reservations) shall substantially benefit the development or bear a reasonable
relationship to the need for public facilities attributable to the new
development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.3.   Lot Configuration
   A.   Dimensional Requirements.
      1.   The size, width, depth, shape, orientation, and minimum setback
lines of lots shall be as required for the zoning district where located in
accordance with the standards in
Article 3: Districts.
      2.   All lots created after January 1, 2020, shall have sufficient area,
dimensions, and access to allow a principal building to be erected on it in
compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
      3.   Lots intended for non-residential development shall be of an
adequate size and shape to accommodate required off-street parking, loading,
and on-site circulation features.
   B.   Side Lot Lines. Side lines of lots should be at or near right angles or
radial to street lines.
   C.   Flag Lots. New flag lots may be established, subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   No more than two flag lots may be created from a parent parcel after
January 1, 2020.
      2.   New flag lots may only be established along existing streets.
      3.   The "pole," arm," or "pan handle" portion of a flag lot shall
maintain a minimum width of at least 30 feet.
      4.   Use of a single driveway to serve an adjoining lot is encouraged.
Wherever possible, the shared driveway shall be on the flag lot.
      5.   In no case shall flag lots be configured to have two "poles,"
"arms," or "pan handles" adjacent to one another.
   D.   Double-Frontage Lots.
      1.   Double frontage (or "through" lots) shall be prohibited except where
essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific challenges of topography and orientation.
      2.   In cases where a double frontage lot abuts an arterial or collector
street, access to the lot shall be provided from the street with the lowest
average daily trips. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Director in
cases where compliance with this standard will likely result in dramatic
increases in traffic within residential areas.
      3.   A double frontage lot shall include an easement of at least ten feet
in width across the rear of the lot which shall prohibit access to the abutting
street.
   E.   Corner Lots. Corner lots shall be of sufficient size to ensure
development may be configured in accordance with the standards in Section
5.1.7, Sight Distance Triangles.
   F.   Lots Served by Private Water or Wastewater Systems.
      1.   Wake County Environmental Health shall evaluate proposed or existing
sewer facilities on lots ten acres or less that are not served by governmental
water and/or sewerage systems in accordance with the following:
         a.   New subdivision lots without existing sewer systems shall be
evaluated by current state and county health department regulations.
         b.   New subdivision lots with existing sewer systems shall be
evaluated for visual malfunctioning by the appropriate county health
department. Malfunctioning systems shall be repaired prior to subdivision plat
approval. New property lines shall meet current minimum setback requirements or
an easement for the sewer facilities must be shown on the plat.
      2.   Lots that are located within 1,000 linear feet of an existing public
potable water or public sanitary sewer line shall connect to these existing
systems.
         a.   If the potable water system will not generate water pressure that
is equal to the average of connected customers within a quarter-mile radius of
the owner’s point of connection (as determined by a licensed professional
engineer), then connection to the water system is not required.
         b.   If the cost to connect to the sewer system is greater than the
cost to install an on-site wastewater system (as determined by a licensed soil
scientist, on-site wastewater contractor, or licensed plumbing contractor),
then connection to sewer system is not required.
   G.   Lots Served by Private Water or Wastewater Systems in Watershed Areas.
Lots in watershed areas that must have an individual (on site) water supply and
sewage disposal system shall be evaluated by current State and county health
department regulations and/or other requirements governing the protection of
public water supplies.
   H.   Drainage and Flood Prevention. New subdivisions shall comply with the
applicable requirements for drainage in Section
6.9, Soil Erosion & Sedimentation, stormwater management in Section
6.11, Stormwater, and flood prevention in Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
6.12.4.   Access to Lots
   A.   All lots subdivided after January 1, 2020, shall be provided with
access to an existing street that has been accepted for maintenance by the
State of North Carolina or the Town of Zebulon.
   B.   Streets providing access to lots shall be constructed in conformance
with the standards and specifications of the Town's construction standards and
details and/or the North Carolina Department of Transportation and dedicated in
accordance with this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.5.   Monuments
Monuments shall be included as part of any subdivision, and shall be configured
in accordance The Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina,
as adopted by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors, and the following:
   A.   Markers shall be set at all lot corners, points of curvature, points of
tangency, and at all points with a change in bearings.
   B.   The location and type of all markers used shall be indicated on the
final plat.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.6.   Easements
Easements for drainage or utilities may be required where necessary, and shall
be provided in accordance with the following:
   A.   Locations.
      1.   Such easements shall be placed along side or rear property lines
where practicable.
      2.   Easements shall center along or be adjacent to a common property
line where practicable.
      3.   Redesign of the lot arrangements may be required to meet extreme
conditions.
   B.   Utilities.
      1.   Power or Communications. Where alleys are not provided, easements
(of not less than ten feet in width) shall be provided adjacent to public
rights-of-way or in such other locations as may be directed by the Planning
Department for poles, wires, or conduits for electrical utilities, natural gas
service, or telephone services.
      2.   Potable Water. Easements of at least 20 feet in width, as centered
on the pipe, shall be provided for public potable water supply systems in
locations as may be directed by the Planning Department for water distribution
lines, water meters, and access points.
      3.   Sanitary Sewer. Easements of at least 30 feet in width, as centered
on the pipe, shall be provided for public sanitary sewer systems in locations
as may be directed by the Planning Department for sewer collection lines and
access points.
      4.   Easement Upsizing. The Planning Director may increase the easement
widths for public water and sewer services based on the size of the line, the
required depth of the line, or the need to remain clear of other utilities.
   C.   Drainage.
      1.   Provision of drainage facilities to maintain the established flow of
off-site water through any property to be subdivided shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider.
      2.   No subdivision shall block or obstruct the natural drainage of an
adjoining area.
      3.   Easements, when required for drainage of the area to be subdivided,
shall be of such width as is necessary to permit proper construction and
maintenance of the drainage facilities required to drain the area properly.
      4.   Open channel drainage easements shall be of a minimum width of 10
feet.
      5.   Drainage easements containing piped stormwater facilities shall be
at least 20 feet in width.
      6.   The Planning Director may require drainage easements up to 50 feet
in width as necessary in the public interest.
      7.   Easements of greater width may be required along the lines of or
across lots where necessary for storm drainage, channels, surface overflow or
for the extension of main sewers or similar utilities and when necessary for
adequate separation of specific utilities.
      8.   Existing natural drainage shall be retained or adequately relocated.
   D.   Maintenance.
      1.   All easements for drainage or utilities shall be cleared of
undergrowth, trees, and other obstructions prior to approval of the final plat
unless Planning Director certifies in writing that such clearance is
unnecessary.
      2.   Clearance is not required for easements that are provided for
possible future use.
      3.   Easements for stormwater management facilities and stormwater
drainage systems located outside the street right-of-way shall be maintained by
an owners' association, and maintenance responsibility for these features shall
be indicated on the final plat.
   E.   Identification. All easements shall be granted in favor of the Town of
Zebulon, the State of North Carolina, the appropriate utility provider, an
owners' association, as appropriate, and shall be shown and clearly labeled on
the final plat.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.7.   Cluster Mailboxes
When cluster mailbox units are required by the US Postal Service, they shall be
configured in accordance with the following:
   A.   Cluster mailbox units shall be configured in accordance with all
applicable USPS standards.
   B.   Cluster mailbox units shall be served by a sidewalk connected to the
larger pedestrian network in the development, or shall provide at least two
designated parking spaces that provide safe an unobstructed access to the
mailbox unit.
   C.   Cluster mailboxes shall be covered to protect pedestrians from
inclement weather while accessing their individual mailbox.
   D.   Cluster mailboxes shall be served by exterior illumination of at least
2 footcandles to ensure safety during night time hours.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.12.8.   Building Numbers
Building numbers shall be assigned by the Town in accordance with the following
standards:
   A.   Road address numbers must be clearly displayed so that the location can
be identified easily from the road.
   B.   The official address number must be displayed on the front of a
building or at the entrance to a building which is most clearly visible from
the street or road during both day and night.
   C.   If a building is more than 75 feet from any road, the address number
shall be displayed at the end of the driveway or easement nearest the road
which provides access to the building.
   D.   Numerals indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least four inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the road.
   E.   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings shall
be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road.
   F.   Numerals must be of contrasting color to the background.
   G.   Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout the
park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The address number
of each lot must be clearly displayed on the lot so as to be legible from the
road rather than mounted on the mobile home unit.
   H.   Owners or occupants of buildings already constructed which do not
comply with this section will be notified and requested to meet these
requirements within 60 days from the date of notification. If the owner or
occupant fails to comply with this request within the specified period of time,
the Planning Director may revoke any of the penalties or remedies available in
this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.   TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
6.13.1.   Introduction
The Town of Zebulon requires that the traffic and circulation impacts of
proposed development projects be analyzed. The traffic impacts of proposed
developments are to be analyzed through the preparation of a traffic impact
analysis (TIA) prepared in conformance with the Town of Zebulon requirements.
The TIA must be prepared, signed and sealed by a traffic engineer or a civil
engineer registered in the State of North Carolina, qualified to practice
traffic engineering. This section identifies the required format and
methodology that is generally required to be utilized in the study preparation,
subject to the review and approval of the Town of Zebulon.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.2.   Purpose
The purpose of the TIA is to identify the impacts on capacity, level of service
(LOS), and safety, which are likely to be created by a proposed development. A
TIA report should identify the improvements needed to:
   A.   Ensure safe ingress to and egress from a site;
   B.   Maintain adequate street capacity on adjacent public streets;
   C.   Ensure safe and reasonable traffic operating conditions on streets and
at intersections in the vicinity of a proposed development;
   D.   Avoid creation of or mitigate existing hazardous traffic conditions;
   E.   Minimize the impact of nonresidential traffic on residential
neighborhoods in the community; and
   F.   Protect the substantial public investment in the existing street
system.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.3.   Applicability
   A.   A TIA shall be required for any new development projects utilizing a
development plan, site plan, and preliminary plat that can be anticipated to
generate at least 50 vehicle trips in either the a.m. or p.m. peak hour, or
exceeding 150 average daily trips (as determined by Institute of Transportation
Engineers Standards).
   B.   Any redevelopment projects to an existing building that involve a
rezoning of the property or a special use permit shall be required to provide a
TIA if the projects are anticipated to generate at least 50 vehicle trips in
either the a.m. or p.m. peak hour (as determined by Institute of Transportation
Engineers Standards).
   C.   A TIA shall be required for any new school development or school
redevelopment projects utilizing a development plan, site plan, and preliminary
plat that can be anticipated to generate at least 100 vehicle trips in either
the a.m. or p.m. peak hour. Trip generation calculations shall be determined
using the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) Municipal and
School Transportation Assistance (MSTA) Traffic Calculator. Final approval of
such developments may require comments, recommendations, and approval from the
NCDOT Division Office based on an analysis and evaluation of the capacity and
efficiency of the anticipated development's roadway network. Any roadway
modifications or improvements necessitated by the proposed development should
be designed and constructed in conformance with the current NCDOT design and
construction guidelines.
   D.   Town staff reserves the right to require a TIA if operational or safety
concerns exist. Some additional factors for determination may include any
nonresidential use meeting one or more of the following:
      1.   covering more than two (2) acres;
      2.   including more than three (3) building lots;
      3.   providing an assembly area for more than four hundred (400) persons;
      4.   involving office or sales floor area over twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet;
      5.   within one hundred fifty (150) lineal feet of any intersection of
two (2) designated Thoroughfares;
      6.   within five hundred (500) lineal feet of any public road
intersection currently operating as a Level of Service D, E or F;
      7.   and/or involving service or delivery vehicles in excess of one (1)
ton.
   E.   Whenever a TIA is required and meets the standards set forth in this
section pursuant to division A, B, C, or D above, the TIA report shall be
incorporated and included as part of the Technical Review Committee (TRC)
submittal packet.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-38, passed 5-1-2023)
6.13.4.   Pre-Application Conference
The applicant shall schedule a pre-application meeting with the Planning
Director to discuss procedures, standards, and regulations required for TIA
submittal and approval.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.5.   Memorandum of Understanding
The traffic engineer shall submit a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to the
Planning Director to document the agreements made during the pre-application
conference which discusses the criteria used in the analysis of the TIA. The
MOU may be received by the town via email, fax, or mail. The traffic engineer
shall not begin work on the TIA until the Town has approved the MOU.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.6.   Period of Validity
A TIA report and traffic counts shall be valid for a specific site for no more
than one year, so long as no significant modifications to the development
proposed for the site that substantially increase the traffic impact are made.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.7.   Traffic Impact Analysis Report Elements
The TIA shall follow standard transportation engineering processes for
determining trip generation and distribution including trip generation
category, diversion assumptions, distribution assumptions, the adequacy of the
road network to serve the proposed development, and whether off-site road
dedication and improvements should be made to mitigate the effects of the
development proposed in the application. The data and methods used in the TIA
shall be based upon the latest editions of Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE) manuals. A TIA shall address the factors listed below:
   A.   Executive Summary. At the beginning of the TIA, the executive summary
shall summarize the analysis and conclusions and identify recommended
transportation improvements.
   B.   Site Description. The TIA shall contain reports, graphics,
illustrations, narratives, and a site plan that describe the characteristics of
the site and adjacent land uses as well as expected development in the vicinity
that will influence future traffic conditions. A description of potential uses
and traffic generation to be evaluated shall be provided. A description of the
proposed development, including access plans, staging plans, and an indication
of land use and intensity, shall be provided.
   C.   Study Area. The study area shall include all proposed access points,
all signalized intersections and all non-signalized intersections having side-
street average daily traffic counts of 2,000 vehicles per day or more within
one-half mile of the property lines on all streets adjoining the site in
accordance with
Table 6.13.7.C: Study Area Boundaries. If the estimated trip generation for the
project is over 2,500 trips per day, then the study area shall include all
proposed access points, all signalized intersections, and all non-signalized
intersections having side-street average daily traffic counts of 2,000 vehicles
per day or more within one mile of the property lines on all adjoining streets.
The potential traffic from any approved project shall be considered in the
study as determined by the Planning Director. The Planning Director has the
right to add or subtract study area intersections based on specific study area
characteristics, and local traffic patterns.
 
TABLE 6.13.7.C: STUDY AREA BOUNDARIES
Element                             < 2,500 Trips Per Day > 2,500 Trips Per Day
All proposed access points          Yes                   Yes
All signalized intersections within Yes                   Yes
1/2 mile
All signalized intersections more
than 1/2 mile but within one mile   No                    Yes
of site
All non-signalized intersections
within 1/2 mile of the site with at Yes                   Yes
least 2,500 average daily trips
All non-signalized intersections
more than 1/2 mile but within one   No                    Yes
mile of the site with at least
2,500 average daily trip
 
   D.   Intersections Shall be Analyzed under Four Scenarios.
      1.   Existing.
      2.   No-build: (existing + annual growth + approved developments).
      3.   Build: (existing + annual growth + approved developments + site
traffic).
      4.   Build improved: (existing + annual growth + approved developments +
site traffic + necessary improvements).
      5.   Scenario 4 may be eliminated if improvements are not necessary to
satisfy any queuing problems or the LOS criteria listed herein. Overall LOS and
delay must be provided for all signalized intersections and worst movement LOS
and delay must be provided for all unsignalized intersections. Intersection
analysis shall include queue analysis. The analysis year for all future
scenarios is one year following the development's scheduled completion year
(build + 1).
   E.   Existing Traffic Conditions. The TIA shall contain a summary of the
data utilized in the study and an analysis of existing traffic conditions,
including:
      1.   Traffic count and turning movement information, including the source
of and date when traffic count information was collected;
      2.   Correction factors that were used to convert collected traffic data
into representative design-hour traffic volumes;
      3.   Roadway characteristics, including the design configuration of
existing or proposed roadways, existing traffic control measures (e.g., speed
limits and traffic signals), and existing driveways and turning movement
conflicts in the vicinity of the site; and
      4.   Identification of the existing level of service for roadways and
intersections without project development traffic using accepted methods of
evaluation. Level of service should be calculated for the weekday peak hour
and, in the case of uses generating high levels of weekend traffic, the
Saturday peak hour.
   F.   Level of Service. For corridors, including mainline, merging areas, and
ramp junctions, a LOS C shall be maintained on any expressway, freeway, or
arterial, and an LOS D on any other designated nonlocal street on the
thoroughfare plan. At all intersections, an LOS C shall be maintained on any
arterial or higher-order street and an LOS D on any other nonresidential
street. Where the existing level of service is below these standards, the
traffic impact analysis report shall identify those improvements or
transportation demand management techniques needed to maintain the existing
level of service, and what additional improvements would be needed to raise the
level of service to the standards indicated.
   G.   Number of Access Points. The number of access points provided shall be
the minimum needed to provide adequate access capacity for the site. Evidence
of LOS D operations for individual public street movements at access locations
is a primary indication of the need for additional access points. However, the
spacing and geometric design of all access points shall be consistent with the
access management criteria of the ordinance.
   H.   Traffic Flow and Progression. The location of new traffic signals or
proposed changes to cycle lengths or timing patterns of existing signals to
meet level of service standards shall not interfere with the goal of achieving
adequate traffic progression on major public streets in the vicinity of the
development.
   I.   Vehicle Storage. The capacity of storage bays and auxiliary lanes for
turning traffic shall be adequate to ensure that turning traffic will not
interfere with through traffic flows on any public street.
   J.   Internal Circulation. On-site vehicle circulation and parking patterns
shall be designed so as not to interfere with the flow of traffic on any public
street and shall accommodate all anticipated types of site traffic.
   K.   Safety. Access points shall be designed to provide for adequate sight
distance and appropriate facilities to accommodate acceleration and
deceleration of site traffic. Where traffic from the proposed development will
impact any location with an incidence of high accident frequency (defined as
one of the five to ten highest accident locations in the area), the accident
history should be evaluated and a determination made that the proposed site
access or additional site traffic will not further aggravate the situation.
   L.   Horizon Year(s) and Background Traffic Growth. The TIA shall identify
the horizon year(s) that were analyzed in the study, the background traffic
growth factors for each horizon year, and the method and assumptions used to
develop the background traffic growth. Background growth rates should be
developed using historical traffic counts and/or population and employment
growth in the area, with a maximum of 6% per year. Unless otherwise approved by
the Planning Director, the impact of development shall be analyzed for the
build out year plus one year into the future after the development is
completed.
   M.   Time Periods to be Analyzed. For each defined horizon year, specific
time periods are to be analyzed. For most land uses, this time period will be
the average peak hour a.m. and p.m. However, certain uses (e.g., major retail
centers, schools, or recreational uses) will have characteristic peak hours
different than that found for adjacent streets, and these unique peak hours may
need to be analyzed to determine factors, such as proper site access and turn
lane storage requirements.
   N.   Trip Generation, Reduction, and Distribution. The TIA shall summarize
the projected peak hour and average daily trip generation for the proposed
development and illustrate the projected trip distribution of trips to and from
the site, and should identify the basis of the trip generation, reduction, and
distribution factors used in the study. Trip distribution assumptions should be
based on existing traffic patterns and employment and population centers in the
area.
   O.   Traffic Assignment. The TIA shall identify projected design-hour
traffic volumes for roadway segments, intersections, or driveways in the study
area, with and without the proposed development, for the horizon year(s) of the
study.
   P.   Impact Analysis. The TIA shall address the impact of traffic volumes of
the projected horizon year(s) relative to each of the applicable traffic
service standards and shall identify the methodology utilized to evaluate the
impact. The weekday a.m. and p.m. peak hour impact shall be evaluated as well
as the Saturday peak hour for those uses exhibiting high levels of weekend
traffic generation.
   Q.   Mitigation/Alternatives. In situations where the traffic levels of
service standards are exceeded, the traffic impact report shall evaluate each
of the following alternatives for achieving the traffic service standards by:
      1.   Identifying where additional rights-of-way are needed to implement
mitigation strategies; and
      2.   Identifying suggested phasing of improvements where needed to
maintain compliance with traffic service standards.
   R.   Recommendations. The TIA shall clearly state the mitigation measures
recommended by the analysis and shall summarize how the recommended mitigations
are roughly proportional to the identified impacts. The recommended street and
highway mitigation measures shall be shown on a drawing that depicts existing
and recommended improvements.
   S.   Other. Other items may be required at the discretion of the Town
Manager, Planning Director, or Public Works Director depending upon the type
and scale of the project. These may include, but are not limited to: queue
length analysis, pedestrian counts, accident data, traffic speeds, stopping
sight distances, and signal warrant analyses.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-38, passed 5-1-2023)
6.13.8.   Safety and Operational Analysis.
The TIA shall examine existing roadway conditions to determine if safety and/or
operational improvements are necessary due to increase in traffic from the
project or cumulative projects. The types of improvements to be identified may
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Need for turning lanes;
   B.   Intersections needing sight distance studies;
   C.   Parking restrictions;
   D.   Measures to reduce cut-through project traffic in adjacent residential
areas;
   E.   Potential impacts to adjacent schools;
   F.   Queue lengths and impacts to adjacent intersections;
   G.   Need for signal interconnect systems.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.9.   Deferral of Obligation
Upon request of the applicant or property owner to the hearing body, the
obligation to dedicate or improve thoroughfare rights-of-way or to make
intersection improvements imposed on an application may be deferred to a later
stage of the development process. As a condition of deferring the obligation to
dedicate rights-of-way for or to improve thoroughfares, which deferral shall be
in the sole discretion of the town, the town shall require the developer to
execute a subdivision or site development improvement agreement specifying the
amount and timing of the rights-of-way dedication or improvements to
thoroughfares, including the posting or depositing of a bond, letter of credit,
or other fiscal surety, in a form and under terms acceptable to the town, in
advance of approval of the development application.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.10.   Waiver
   A.   The Board of Commissioners is empowered to hear and decide waiver
exemptions from the terms of this section. A request for a waiver shall be
heard at a quasi-judicial hearing. All appropriate fees shall be paid at the
time of application for a waiver.
   B.   The Board of Commissioners may waive the requirements for a TIA if a
previously prepared traffic study or transportation plan, not older than ten
years clearly shows that no capacity or safety issues exist that might be
compounded as a result of the proposed development, and thereby, no adverse
impacts of unsafe or hazardous conditions would be created on the
transportation system.
   C.   Developments in the central business districts that are not required to
provide on-site or off-street parking are exempt from the requirements of this
section.
   D.   After completion of the TIA, the Board of Commissioners may waive
suggested improvements upon determining the spirit and intent of this section
will still be met through alternative standards.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.13.11.   Format and Submittal of Report
   A.   Five copies of the final printed report must be bound and submitted to
the Planning Department.
   B.   The report should contain discussion of all of the major facets of the
study including background data, traffic data collected, trip generation, trip
distribution and assignment, analysis of conditions with and without the
proposed project, recommended mitigation measures, and appendices with
pertinent data.
   C.   Renderings of the proposed development are recommended for inclusion in
the report.
   D.   If necessary, copies relating to projects impacting state roads should
be submitted to the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
District Office as well as the NCDOT Traffic Engineering Branch.
   E.   The report must be signed and sealed by a traffic engineer registered
in the State of North Carolina on the cover or table of contents page.
   F.   The report shall include a graphic map with aerial photo of the studied
intersections with labels showing the different LOS scenarios listed in
subsection D above and a list of recommended improvements.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-38, passed 5-1-2023)
6.14.   UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
6.14.1.   Utility Ownership and Easement Rights
In any case in which a developer installs or causes the installation of water,
sewer, electrical power, telephone or cable television facilities and intends
that the facilities shall be owned, operated or maintained by a public utility
or any entity other than the developer, the developer shall transfer to the
utility or entity the necessary ownership or easement rights to enable the
utility or entity to operate and maintain the facilities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.2.   Lots Served by Governmentally Owned Water or Sewer Lines
   A.   Whenever it is legally possible and practicable in terms of topography
to connect a lot with a Town water or sewer line by running a connection line
not more than 200 feet from the lot to the line, then no use requiring water or
sewage disposal service may be made of the lot unless connection is made to the
line.
   B.   Connection to the water or sewer is not legally possible if, in order
to make connection with the line by a connecting line that does not exceed 200
feet in length, it is necessary to run the connecting line over property not
owned by the owner of the property to be served by the connection and, after
diligent effort, the easement necessary to run the connecting line cannot
reasonably be obtained.
   C.   For purposes of this article, a lot is served by a Town-owned water or
sewer line if connection is required by this section, with the exception of:
      a.   If the potable water system will not generate water pressure that is
equal to the average of connected customers within a quarter-mile radium of the
owner’s point of connection (as determined by a licensed professional
engineer), then connection to the water system is not required.
      b.   If the cost to connect to the sewer system is greater than the cost
to install an on-site wastewater system (as determined by a licensed soil
scientist, on-site wastewater contractor, or licensed plumbing contractor),
then connection to sewer system is not required.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passed 10-7-2024)
6.14.3.   Sewage Disposal Facilities Required
   A.   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall be served
by a sewage disposal system that is adequate to accommodate the reasonable
needs of the use or subdivision lot and that complies with all applicable
health regulations.
   B.   Primary responsibility for determining whether a proposed development
will comply with these standards typically lies with a county or state agency
rather than the Town, and the developer must comply with the detailed standards
and specifications of another agency.
   C.   Whenever applicable the developer must present the Planning Director
with certification from the appropriate agency which regulate the type of
sewage disposal facility being proposed that the facility complies with all
standards and requirements. If a permit is required, the developer must present
the Planning Director with a copy of the permit as well as any detailed
drawings which were required prior to its issuance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.4.   Water Supply System Required
   A.   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall be served
by a water supply system that is adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs
of the use or subdivision lot and that complies with all applicable health
regulations.
   B.   Primary responsibility for determining whether a proposed development
will comply with these standards typically lies with a county or state agency
rather than the Town, and the developer must comply with the detailed standards
and specifications of such other agency.
   C.   Whenever applicable the developer must present the Planning Director
with certification from the appropriate agency which regulate the type of
sewage disposal facility being proposed that the facility complies with all
standards and requirements. If a permit is required, the developer must present
the Planning Director with a copy of the permit as well as any detailed
drawings which were required prior to its issuance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.5.   Electric Power
   A.   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall have
available to it a source of electric power adequate to accommodate the
reasonable needs of the use and every lot within the subdivision. Compliance
with this requirement shall be determined as follows:
   B.   If the use is not a subdivision and is located on a lot that is served
by an existing power line and the use can be served by a simple connection to
the power line, then no further certification is needed; and
   C.   If the use is a subdivision or is not located on a lot served by an
existing power line or a substantial internal distribution system will be
necessary, then the electric utility service provider must review the proposed
plans and certify to the Town that it can provide service that is adequate to
meet the needs of the proposed use and every lot within the proposed
subdivision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.6.   Telephone Service
   A.   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall have
available to it a telephone service cable adequate to accommodate the
reasonable needs of the use and every lot within the subdivision. Compliance
with this requirement shall be determined as follows:
   B.   If the use is not a subdivision and is located on a lot that is served
by an existing telephone line and the use can be served by a simple connection
to the power line, then no further certification is needed; and
   C.   If the use is a subdivision or is not located on a lot served by an
existing telephone line or a substantial internal distribution system will be
necessary, then the telephone utility company provider must review the proposed
plans and certify to the town that it can provide service that is adequate to
meet the needs of the proposed use and every lot within the proposed
subdivision.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.7.   Underground Utilities
   A.   All electric power lines, not to include transformers or enclosures
containing electrical equipment including, but not limited to, switches, meter
or capacitors which may be pad mounted, telephone, gas distribution and cable
television lines in subdivisions constructed after the effective date of this
chapter shall be placed underground in accordance with the specifications and
policies of the respective utility service and subject to approval by the town.
   B.   Whenever an unsubdivided development is hereafter constructed on a lot
that is undeveloped on the effective date of this Ordinance, then all electric
power, telephone, gas distribution and cable television lines installed to
serve the development that are located on the development site outside of a
previously existing public street right-of-way shall be placed underground in
accordance with the specifications and policies of the respective utility
companies and subject to approval by the town.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.8.   Utilities to be Consistent with Internal and External Development
   A.   Whenever it can reasonably be anticipated that utility facilities
constructed in one development will be extended to serve other adjacent or
nearby developments, the utility facilities shall be located and constructed so
that extensions can be made conveniently and without undue burden or expense or
unnecessary duplication of service.
   B.   All utility facilities shall be constructed in such a manner as to
minimize interference with pedestrian or vehicular traffic and to facilitate
maintenance without undue damage to improvements or facilities located within
the development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.9.   As-Built Drawings Required
   A.   Whenever a developer installs or causes to be installed any utility
line in any public right-of-way, the developer shall, as soon as practicable
after installation is complete, and before acceptance of any water or sewer
line, furnish the city with a copy of a drawing that shows the exact location
of the utility lines.
   B.   The drawings must be verified as accurate by the utility service
provider. Compliance with this requirement shall be a condition of the
continued validity of the permit authorizing the development.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
6.14.10.   Fire Hydrants
   A.   Water System.
      1.   Every development that is served by a public water system shall
include a system of fire hydrants sufficient to provide adequate fire
protection for the buildings located or intended to be located within the
development.
      2.   Refer to the City of Raleigh Public Utilities Department current
handbook for all water design standards.
   B.   Sprinklers.
      1.   Where automatic sprinkler systems are used, a fire department
connection, five-inch storz with 30-degree elbow, shall be provided on the
building or at a location approved by the local fire code official.
      2.   Where a single riser serves more than one occupancy, or building
tenant, an approved indicating shut off valve must be provided for each
occupancy and supervised in accordance with the current North Carolina Fire
Prevention Code.
      3.   Where automatic sprinkler systems are used, a Fire Department
connection shall be provided on the building. The Fire Department connection
shall be located within 100 feet of a hydrant.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 7 - NONCONFORMITIES
Article 7 - Nonconformities
7:   Nonconformities
7.1.   General Applicability
7.1.1.   Purpose and Intent
7.1.2.   Determination of Nonconformity Status
7.1.3.   Continuation, Minor Repairs, and Maintenance Allowed
7.1.4.   Change of Tenancy or Ownership
7.2.   Nonconforming Lots of Record
7.2.1.   Applicability
7.2.2.   Nonconforming Lot Width or Area
7.2.3.   Nonconformity Affects Required Setbacks
7.2.4.   Expansion or Enlargement
7.2.5.   Governmental Acquisition of Land
7.3.   Nonconforming Signs
7.3.1.   General
7.3.2.   Prohibited Actions
7.3.3.   Maintenance of Nonconforming Signage Allowed
7.3.4.   Replacement of Nonconforming Signage
7.3.5.   Discontinuance of Business Activity
7.4.   Nonconforming Sites
7.4.1.   Applicability
7.4.2.   Changes of Use
7.4.3.   Determination of Cost and Assessed Value
7.4.4.   Expansion of Buildings or Structures
7.4.5.   Physically Constrained Properties - Comply to Maximum Extent
Practicable
7.5.   Nonconforming Structures
7.5.1.   Applicability
7.5.2.   Continuation and Replacement
7.5.3.   Alteration and Expansion
7.5.4.   Cessation
7.6.   Nonconforming Uses
7.6.1.   Declared Incompatible
7.6.2.   Increasing Elevation
7.6.3.   Extension or Expansion
7.6.4.   Renovation
7.6.5.   Conversion to Another Nonconforming Use
7.6.6.   Restoration Following Casualty Damage
7.6.7.   Cessation
7.1.   GENERAL APPLICABILITY
7.1.1   Purpose and Intent
There are existing structures, uses of land, and lots of record that were
lawfully established before the effective date of this Ordinance or a
subsequent amendment thereto, that now do not conform to standards and
requirements of this Ordinance. Such uses, structures, and lots are
collectively referred to as "nonconformities." The purpose and intent of this
chapter is to allow nonconformities to continue to exist, but to regulate and
limit their continued existence and expansion so as to bring them into
conformity to the extent that is reasonably practicable.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.1.2.   Determination of Nonconformity Status
In all cases, the burden of establishing that a nonconformity lawfully exists
shall be the responsibility of the landowner of the land on which the alleged
nonconformity is located.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.1.3.   Continuation, Minor Repairs, and Maintenance Allowed
   A.   Continuation. Nonconformities are allowed to continue in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Completion. Nonconforming projects incomplete as of before January 1,
2020 shall only be completed in accordance with this chapter and Section
1.10, Transitional Provisions. Nothing in these standards shall require a
change in approved plans or approved uses for development upon which
construction was lawfully commenced prior to before January 1, 2020. For the
purposes of this section, commencement of construction shall mean excavation or
demolition, permanent placement of construction materials on site, or the
permanent fastening of building materials.
   C.   Maintenance Allowed. Nonconformities are allowed and encouraged to
receive minor repairs and routine maintenance that are necessary to maintain
the nonconformity and its surroundings in a safe condition and to protect
against health hazards.
   D.   Strengthening Allowed. Nothing in this Ordinance shall prevent the
strengthening or restoration to a safe or lawful condition of any part of any
building or structure declared unsafe or unlawful by a duly authorized Town
official.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.1.4.   Change of Tenancy or Ownership
No change in tenancy or ownership of land shall limit the continuance of a
lawfully established nonconformity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.2.   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD
7.2.1.   Applicability
Lawfully established nonconforming lots of record may be developed in
accordance with the standards in this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.2.2.   Nonconforming Lot Width or Area
   A.   Lots with Contiguous Frontage in One Ownership. When two or more
adjoining lots with contiguous frontage are under common ownership and one or
more of the lots are nonconforming in terms of width or area, such lots shall
be combined to create one or more lots, each of which conforms to the
applicable dimensional requirements of the district prior to the commencement
of development.
   B.   Single Lot of Record in a Residential District. When a lot in a
residential zoning district has an area or width which does not conform to the
dimensional requirements of the district where it is located, but was lawfully
established on or before January 1, 2020, then a single-family detached
dwelling may be built on the lot, subject to compliance with setback standards.
   C.   Single Lot of Record in a Nonresidential District. When a lot in a
nonresidential district has an area or width which does not conform to the
dimensional requirements of the district where it is located, but was lawfully
established on or before January 1, 2020, then development on the lot may be
permitted, subject to compliance with all required dimensional and development
standards, and all other applicable development and design standards.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.2.3.   Nonconformity Affects Required Setbacks
In cases where the size or shape of a nonconforming lot inhibits the ability of
a use to comply with required setbacks, an applicant may apply to reduce the
setback requirements the minimum amount necessary in accordance with the
standards and requirements in Section
2.2.1, Administrative Adjustment.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.2.4.   Expansion or Enlargement
The boundaries, shape, or size of a nonconforming lot may be modified through a
lot line adjustment, boundary adjustment, recombination, or consolidation,
provided it reduces the extent of the nonconformity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.2.5.   Governmental Acquisition of Land
Conforming lots subject to governmental acquisition of a portion of the lot for
a public purpose that results in the lot becoming nonconforming because it no
longer complies with lot area, width, or depth standards of the district shall
be deemed conforming provided the development complies with the following:
   A.   Complies with Use Table. The development proposed complies with the
requirements in
Table 4.2.3, Principal Use Table; and
   B.   Complies with Dimensional Standards. With the exception of the lot area
requirements for the district where located, the development proposed shall
comply with all other dimensional standards and other requirements of the
district where located.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.3.   NONCONFORMING SIGNS
7.3.1.   General
A sign that was legally in existence on before January 1, 2020, and was
constructed in accordance with the applicable laws and ordinances in effect on
the date of construction, but by reason of its size, height, location, design,
or construction is no longer in compliance with the requirements of the
Ordinance, shall be deemed a nonconforming sign subject to the standards in
this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.3.2.   Prohibited Actions
The following actions associated with a nonconforming sign shall be prohibited:
   A.   Enlargement or Alteration. Structural alteration, enlargement, or
extension of a nonconforming sign or sign structure shall not be permitted,
however, nothing shall limit the ability to modernize a billboard in accordance
with Section
136.131.2 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   B.   Relocation. Relocation of a nonconforming sign upon the premises,
unless the relocation meets the requirements of this Ordinance, however,
nothing shall limit the ability to modernize a billboard in accordance with
Section
136.131.2 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.3.3.   Maintenance of Nonconforming Signage Allowed
A nonconforming sign may remain in place and be maintained, subject to the
following standards:
   A.   Maintenance Actions. Normal maintenance of a nonconforming sign shall
be allowed, and shall be limited to the following:
      1.   Nonstructural repairs, such as repainting or electrical repairs;
      2.   Incidental alterations which do not increase the degree or extent of
the nonconformity; and
      3.   Changing of copy, as provided in this section.
   B.   Change of Sign Copy. Nonconforming signs may change copy in the form of
replacement panels or replacement lettering.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.3.4.   Replacement of Nonconforming Signage
   A.   Removal. Any nonconforming sign that is removed for any reason shall
only be replaced with a sign that complies with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
   B.   Damage.
      1.   If damage to a nonconforming sign from any cause is less than 50
percent of its replacement value, the sign may be rebuilt or repaired to its
original condition in its original location and may continue to be displayed.
      2.   If damage from any cause to a nonconforming sign equals or exceeds
50 percent of its replacement value, the nonconforming sign, including sign
supports and mounting hardware, may only be replaced with a sign that complies
with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.3.5.   Discontinuance of Business Activity
   A.   Discontinued for less than 180 Days. If the business activity on the
premises where a nonconforming sign is located is discontinued for a continuous
period of less than 180 days, then the nonconforming sign may remain.
   B.   Discontinued for 180 Days or More.
      1.   If the business activity on the premises where a nonconforming sign
is located is discontinued for a continuous period of 180 days or more, then
the nonconforming sign must be removed or replaced by a sign conforming to the
standards of this Ordinance within 30 days of notice by the Planning Director.
      2.   In cases where the sign is nonconforming due to its height, face
area, or location, then the sign, including the sign supports, shall be
modified or removed as necessary in order to conform with the applicable
requirements of this Ordinance.
      3.   No nonconforming portion of a sign or portion of a sign that would
result in replacement sign face area that is nonconforming shall be retained
following discontinuance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.4.   NONCONFORMING SITES
7.4.1.   Applicability
   A.   For purposes of this section, the term "nonconforming site features"
includes the following:
      1.   Nonconforming off-street parking;
      2.   Nonconforming landscaping;
      3.   Nonconforming screening;
      4.   Nonconforming walls or fences; and
      5.   Nonconforming exterior lighting.
   B.   If an application is filed for a building permit (including mechanical,
electrical, HVAC, or other typical permit) for the expansion of a structure and
the development site contains one or more nonconforming site features, and the
value of the proposed improvements totals at least 25 percent of the assessed
value of the existing structure, the applicant shall be required to address the
nonconforming site feature as provided in this section.
   C.   Town staff may develop administrative guidelines to assist in the
implementation of this section, including guidelines for the resolution of
conflicts when it may not be possible for one or more types of nonconforming
site features to be brought into compliance with the requirements of this
Ordinance because of particular site constraints or impacts on adjacent sites.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.4.2.   Changes of Use
Changes in use shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   In cases where an existing use is replaced by another use type of the
same or lesser intensity (as measured by number of vehicular trips generated,
hours of operation, number of on-site visitors, or other metric as determined
by the Planning Director), then compliance with site features requirements
shall be in accordance with the standards in Section
7.4.4, Expansion of Buildings or Structures.
   B.   In cases where an existing use is replaced by a more intense use type
(as measured by number of vehicular trips generated, hours of operation, number
of on-site visitors, or other metric as determined by the Planning Director)
full compliance with all applicable provisions in this Ordinance is required.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.4.3.   Determination of Cost and Assessed Value
   A.   For purposes of determining if upgrading of nonconforming site features
is required by this subsection, the cost of the expansion shall be as shown on
the approved building permit application.
   B.   Assessed value shall be based on the most recently available tax
records from the county where the development is located.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.4.4.   Expansion of Buildings or Structures
If a building permit is required for expansion of the building or structure,
the expansion shall require correction of existing on-site nonconforming off-
street parking, landscaping, screening, wall or fencing, and exterior lighting
in accordance with this section.
   A.   25 Percent or less of Structure Value. Expansions in any continuous
one-year period that costs 25 percent or less of the current assessed value of
the structure shall not require any correction to nonconforming site aspects.
   B.   More than 25 Percent but less than 75 Percent of Structure Value.
Expansions in any continuous one-year period that costs more than 25 percent
but less than 75 percent of the current assessed value of the structure shall
require that a corresponding percentage of the off-street parking, landscaping,
screening, wall or fencing, and exterior lighting standards of this Ordinance
be installed or upgraded on the site, until the site achieves 100 percent
compliance. Example: A hypothetical building is required to provide at least 40
off-street parking spaces, but the building site only includes 20 spaces. If
the building is remodeled such that the cost of remodeling equals 30 percent of
the building's assessed value, the remodeling project must add 12 parking
spaces (30% x 40 required spaces). This increases the development's degree of
compliance with off-street parking standards from 50 percent (20 of 40 required
spaces) to 80 percent (32 of 40 required spaces).
   C.   75 Percent or More of Structure Value. Expansion projects that cost 75
percent or more of the current assessed value of the structure shall require
100 percent compliance with the off-street parking, landscaping, screening,
wall or fencing, and exterior lighting standards of this Ordinance.
   D.   Two or Fewer Additional Parking Spaces. When two or fewer additional
off-street parking spaces are required under this subsection as a result of an
expansion project, such additional off-street parking is not required to be
installed, but the applicant may install a comparable number of bicycle parking
spaces.
   E.   Addition of Outdoor Storage Area Only. When only outdoor operations/
storage/display areas are being added or increased on a site, the percentage
increase in outdoor operations area shall require a corresponding percentage
increase in perimeter buffers and screening. Perimeter buffer and screening
augmentation shall be located so as to achieve the performance objectives in
Section
5.6, Landscaping, with priority given to screening the impacts of outdoor
operations.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.4.5.   Physically Constrained Properties - Comply to Maximum Extent
Practicable
Lands that are physically constrained due to limited size, topography, or other
environmental considerations may seek a reduction to these standards in
accordance with Section
2.2.1, Administrative Adjustment, or Section
2.2.21, Variance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.5.   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
   7.5.1   Applicability
Nonconforming principal and accessory structures shall be subject to the
standards in this section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.5.2.   Continuation and Replacement
   A.   Continuation. A nonconforming structure may be continued in accordance
with Section
7.1.3, Continuation, Minor Repairs, and Maintenance Allowed.
   B.   Replacement.
      1.   Nonconforming manufactured or mobile homes may be replaced in
accordance with the standards in Section
7.6.3.B, Manufactured or Mobile Homes.
      2.   Nothing shall limit activities that increase habitable space of a
nonconforming residential structure to a height above the regulatory flood
elevation.
   C.   Relocation. A nonconforming structure shall not be moved, in whole or
in part, to another location on the parcel of land on which it is located,
unless the relocation removes the nonconformity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.5.3.   Alteration and Expansion
No nonconforming structure may be altered in any way which increases the
nonconformity; however, any nonconforming structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease the degree of nonconformity. Nothing shall limit the
elevation of a residential structure as necessary to ensure habitable floor
area is outside the regulatory flood elevation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.5.4.   Cessation
A nonconforming structure shall not be modified or altered in any way that
increases the amount of nonconformity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.   NONCONFORMING USES
The lawful nonconforming use of a structure, land, or water existing as of
January 1, 2020, may only be continued in accordance with the following
standards:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.1.   Declared Incompatible
All nonconforming uses are hereby declared generally incompatible with the
permitted uses in the district in which they are located and with the
provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.2.   Increasing Elevation
Nothing in this section shall limit the increase in elevation of an existing or
damaged building or structure in the FHO to a height above the regulatory flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.3.   Extension or Expansion
A nonconforming use shall not be extended or expanded to occupy more space or
altered in any way that increases the degree of nonconformity, except in
accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings. Except for manufactured or mobile
homes, a nonconforming residential use may not be extended, expanded, enlarged,
or altered in any way that increases the degree of nonconformity.
   B.   Manufactured or Mobile Homes. An existing nonconforming manufactured or
mobile home may be replaced with another nonconforming manufactured or mobile
home provided the replacement mobile or manufactured home:
      1.   Is sixteen feet wide or wider;
      2.   Is in place within 60 days of the removal of the prior nonconforming
mobile or manufactured home;
      3.   Is connected to the public sewer system, or has all the necessary
permits from the county health department pertaining to wastewater treatment;
and
      4.   Is surrounded by underpinning comprised of an all-weather base
material.
   C.   All Other Uses. A nonconforming use may not be extended, expanded,
enlarged, or altered in any way that increases the degree of nonconformity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.4.   Renovation
Except for manufactured or mobile homes, a nonconforming use may be renovated
provided the renovation does not extend, expand, or enlarge the nonconformity
or create a new nonconforming use. Nonconforming manufactured or mobile homes
may be renovated in accordance with Section
7.6.3.B, Manufactured or Mobile Homes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.5.   Conversion to Another Nonconforming Use
No nonconforming use shall be converted to another nonconforming use.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.6.   Restoration Following Casualty Damage
   A.   Significant Damage.
      1.   Except for manufactured or mobile homes, a nonconforming use that is
damaged by fire, explosion, flood, or other calamity in an amount equal to 51
percent or more of the use's current assessed value or square footage may not
be restored or reconstructed except as a conforming use.
      2.   Nonconforming manufactured or mobile homes damaged by fire,
explosion, flood, or other calamity in an amount equal to 51 percent or more of
the use's current assessed value or square footage may be restored or
reconstructed only in accordance with the standards in Section
7.6.3.B, Manufactured or Mobile Homes.
   B.   Insignificant Damage. If a nonconforming use is damaged by fire,
explosion, flood, or other calamity to an extent less than 51 percent of its
current assessed value or square footage, it may be restored to its pre-damage
condition, provided the degree of nonconformity is not extended, expanded,
enlarged, or altered in any way that increases the degree of nonconformity.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
7.6.7.   Cessation
   A.   In the event a nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for a
period of more than 180 consecutive days, the nonconforming use may only be
replaced by a use permitted in the district where located.
   B.   Cessation shall specifically include the completion or termination of
site activity by the prime tenant of a nonconforming use, site, or structure.
   C.   Any time a nonconforming use is converted to a conforming use, the
conforming use shall not revert to the former nonconforming use or any other
nonconforming use.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 8 - ENFORCEMENT
Article 8 - Enforcement
8: Enforcement
8.1.   Purpose
8.2.   Compliance Required
8.3.   Statute of Limitations
8.4.   Violations
8.4.1.   Development without Authorization
8.4.2.   Development Inconsistent with Authorization
8.4.3.   Violation by Act or Omission
8.4.4.   Use in Violation
8.4.5.   Subdivide in Violation
8.4.6.   Violation of Environmental Regulations
8.5.   Responsible Persons
8.5.1.   General
8.5.2.   Failure by Town Does Not Relieve Individual
8.6.   Enforcement Responsibilities
8.6.1.   Investigations
8.6.2.   Inspections
8.6.3.   Supporting Documentation
8.7.   Enforcement Procedure
8.7.1.   Written Notice of Violation
8.7.2.   Delivery of Written Notice
8.7.3.   Remedy upon Notice
8.7.4.   Failure to Comply With Order
8.7.5.   Each Day a Separate Violation
8.8.   Remedies
8.8.1.   Civil Penalties
8.8.2.   Denial of Permit or Certificate
8.8.3.   Conditional Permit or Temporary Certificate
8.8.4.   Stop Work Orders
8.8.5.   Revocation of Permits
8.8.6.   Criminal Penalties
8.8.7.   Injunctive Relief
8.8.8.   Order of Abatement
8.8.9.   Equitable Remedy
8.8.10.   State and Common Law Remedies
8.8.11.   Previous Enforcement
8.8.12.   Remedies; Cumulative and Continuous
8.9.   Assessment of Civil Penalties
8.9.1.   Responsible Parties
8.9.2.   Notice
8.9.3.   Continuing Violation
8.9.4.   Demand for Payment
8.9.5.   Nonpayment
8.9.6.   Penalties
8.9.7.   Civil Penalties in the R1 District
8.10.   Enforcement Provisions for Violations in the FHO District
8.10.1.   Violations to be Corrected
8.10.2.   Inspections of Work in Progress
8.10.3.   Stop-Work Orders
8.10.4.   Revocation of Permits
8.10.5.   Periodic Inspections
8.10.6.   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action
8.10.7.   Order to Take Corrective Action
8.10.8.   Appeal
8.10.9.   Failure to Comply with Order
8.1.   PURPOSE
This section establishes procedures through which the Town seeks to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance and obtain corrections for
Ordinance violations. It also sets forth the remedies and penalties that apply
to violations of this Ordinance. The provisions of this section are intended to
encourage the voluntary correction of violations, where possible.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.2.   COMPLIANCE REQUIRED
Compliance with all the procedures, standards, and other provisions of this
Ordinance is required by all persons owning, developing, managing, using, or
occupying land or structures in the Town.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.3.   STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
Enforcement of violations of this Ordinance shall be in accordance with Section
1-49(3) and Section 1-51 (5) of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.   VIOLATIONS
Any of the following shall be a violation of this Ordinance and shall be
subject to the remedies and penalties provided by this Ordinance and by State
law:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.1.   Development without Authorization
Engaging in any development, use, construction, land disturbance, or other
activity of any nature upon land or improvements thereon subject to the
jurisdiction of this Ordinance without all required plans, permits,
certificates, or other forms of authorization as set forth in this Ordinance;
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.2.   Development Inconsistent with Authorization
Engaging in any development, use, construction, land disturbance, or other
activity of any nature in any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit,
certificate, or other form of authorization granted for such activity;
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.3.   Violation by Act or Omission
Violating, by act or omission, any term, variance, modification, adjustment,
condition, or qualification placed upon any required plan, permit, certificate,
or other form of authorization for the development, use, construction, land
disturbance, or other activity upon land or improvements thereon;
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.4.   Use in Violation
Erecting, constructing, altering, repairing, maintaining, or using any building
or structure, or use of any land in violation of this Ordinance or any
regulation made under the authority conferred thereby;
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.5.   Subdivide in Violation
Subdividing land in violation of this Ordinance, or transferring land by
reference to a plat or map showing a subdivision of land before the plat or map
has been properly approved under this Ordinance and recorded in the office of
the Wake County Register of Deeds; and
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.4.6.   Violation of Environmental Regulations
Failing to follow or violating the rules or regulations of Section
6.11, Stormwater, Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, or Section
6.9, Soil Erosion & Sedimentation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.5.   RESPONSIBLE PERSONS
8.5.1.   General
For the purposes of this article, "responsible persons" shall mean the
landowner, tenant, or other occupant of any land or structure and an architect,
engineer, builder, contractor, agent, or any other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains a situation that constitutes a
violation of this Ordinance may be held responsible for the violation and is
subject to the remedies and penalties set forth in this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.5.2.   Failure by Town Does Not Relieve Individual
Failure of a Town official charged with enforcement responsibility to observe
or recognize conditions which violate the intent and purpose of this section of
the Ordinance, or to deny the issuance of a development permit, shall not
relieve the responsible party from responsibility for compliance with the
condition or for any damages that may result, and shall not result in the Town,
its officers, or agents being responsible for conditions or damages.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.6. ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
The Planning Director shall have responsibility for enforcement of this
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.6.1.   Investigations
The Planning Director shall have the power to conduct such investigation as may
be deemed necessary to carry out their duties as prescribed in this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.6.2.   Inspections
   A.   The Planning Director shall have the right, upon receipt of permission
from a responsible person, to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting locations subject to any
complaints or alleged violations, or determination of compliance or other
enforcement action of this Ordinance.
   B.   If any person charged with enforcing this Ordinance cannot obtain
permission to enter from a responsible person, the Town shall obtain an
administrative search warrant prior to entering the property.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.6.3.   Supporting Documentation
The Planning Director shall have the power to compel a person responsible for
an alleged violation to provide written statements, certificates,
certifications, or reports relating to complaints or alleged violations of this
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.7.   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
When the Planning Director finds a violation of this Ordinance, they shall
notify the responsible person (s) of the violation in accordance with the
following:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.7.1.   Written Notice of Violation
A written notice of violation shall be prepared and shall include all of
following:
   A.   Violation Exists. That the land, building, structure, sign, or use is
in violation of this Ordinance;
   B.   Nature of the Violation. The nature of the violation, and citation of
the section(s) of this Ordinance violated;
   C.   Remedy. The measures necessary to remedy the violation;
   D.   Allowable Time Period. The time period in which the violation must be
corrected;
   E.   Penalties That may be Assessed. That penalties or remedies may be
assessed; and
   F.   Appeal. That the party cited has the right to appeal the notice in
accordance with Section
2.2.3, Appeal.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.7.2.   Delivery of Written Notice
Written notice of violation shall be provided to the owner of record on any
parties in interest by any of the following means:
   A.   Certified mail;
   B.   Registered mail to their last known address;
   C.   Personal service;
   D.   Posting notice conspicuously on the property; or
   E.   In any matter permitted by Section 1A-1, Rule 4(j) of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.7.3.   Remedy upon Notice
Upon delivery of a written notice of a violation, the landowner or any other
responsible person shall remedy the violation within the allowable time period.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.7.4.   Failure to Comply with Order
If the landowner, occupant, or any other responsible person fails to comply
with a notice of violation from which no appeal has been taken, or a final
decision by the BOA following an appeal, the landowner or occupant shall be
subject to such remedies and penalties as may be provided for by State law or
Section
8.8, Remedies.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.7.5.   Each Day a Separate Violation
Each day a violation continues following notice or failure to comply is
considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.   REMEDIES
8.8.1.   Civil Penalties
Any responsible person who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be
subject to the assessment of a civil penalty of $100.00 per day under the
procedures provided in Section
8.9, Assessment of Civil Penalties.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.2.   Denial of Permit or Certificate
As appropriate, any of the review authorities listed in this section may
withhold or deny a permit, certificate, or other authorization for the same
land, subdivision, building, structure, sign, use, or development activity in
which there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of this Ordinance, or of
a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, or other authorization
previously granted.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.3.   Conditional Permit or Temporary Certificate
   A.   The Planning Director may condition the authorization of any permit,
certificate, or other approval for land, subdivision, building, structure,
sign, use, or development activity with a violation or outstanding enforcement
action upon the correction of the violation, payment of civil penalties within
a specified time, or the posting of a compliance security approved by
appropriate governmental authority.
   B.   In no instance shall the Planning Director condition the authorization
of any permit, certificate, or approval for one property with a violation or
outstanding enforcement action upon the correction of the violation, payment of
civil penalties within a specified time, or the posting of a compliance
security for a different property.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.4.   Stop Work Orders
   A.   General. Whenever a review authority listed in this section determines
that a person is engaged in doing work that constitutes, creates, or results in
a violation of this Ordinance and that irreparable injury will occur if the
violation is not terminated immediately, the review authority may order the
specific part of the work that constitutes, creates, or results in a violation
of this Ordinance to be immediately stopped.
   B.   Order in Writing. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed
to the landowner, and the occupant or person doing the work in a manner
consistent with applicable law. The stop work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions
under which the work may be resumed.
   C.   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the issuance of a stop work order may
appeal the issuance of the order to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
Section
2.2.3, Appeal. An appeal shall not stay the stop work order unless the BOA
fails to hear the appeal within 60 days of receipt of the notice of appeal. If
the BOA fails to hear the appeal within 60 days, the stop work order shall be
stayed until the BOA acts on the appeal.
   D.   Compliance Required. Neither the responsible person nor a landowner
upon whom a stop work order is served shall continue with work in violation of
the stop work order while it remains in effect, unless the order is stayed in
accordance with subsection (C) above.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.5.   Revocation of Permits
   A.   The Planning Director may revoke and require the return of a permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
   B.   Permits or certificates may be revoked, in accordance with Section
160D-403(f) of the North Carolina General Statutes, for any of the following:
      1.   Any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications;
      2.   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of State or local
laws; or
      3.   For making false statements or misrepresentations in securing the
permit, certificate, or approval.
      4.   Any permit or certificate mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable State or Town law may also be revoked.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019 ; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
8.8.6.   Criminal Penalties
   A.   Violation of Erosion and Sedimentation Control. Any person who
knowingly or willfully violates any soil erosion and sedimentation control
provision of this Ordinance, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to the
soil erosion and sedimentation control provisions of this Ordinance, or who
knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land-disturbing activity for
which a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan is required, except in
accordance with the terms, conditions, and provisions of an approved plan,
shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor that may include a fine not to exceed
five thousand dollars ($5,000).
   B.   All Other Violations. Any violation of this Ordinance may be enforced
as a Class 3 misdemeanor as provided for by Sections 14-4 and 160A-175 of the
North Carolina General Statutes, subject to a maximum fine of $500.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.7.   Injunctive Relief
   A.   Action by Board of Commissioners. Whenever the Board of Commissioners
has reasonable cause to believe that any person is violating or threatening to
violate this Ordinance, or any rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
Ordinance, or any term, condition, or provision of an approved development
plan, or soil erosion and sedimentation control plan, it may, either before or
after the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this
Ordinance, institute a civil action in the name of the Town, for injunctive
relief to restrain, correct, abate, mandate, or enjoin the violation or
threatened violation.
   B.   Superior Court. The action shall be brought in the Superior Court of
the appropriate county. Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation
is occurring or is threatened, it shall enter such orders or judgments as are
necessary to abate the violation or to prevent the threatened violation.
   C.   No Relief from Criminal Penalties. The institution of an action for
injunctive relief under this section shall not relieve any party to such
proceedings from any civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of
this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.8.   Order of Abatement
In addition to an injunction, the Town may apply for and the court may enter an
Order of Abatement as part of the judgment in the case. An Order of Abatement
may direct any of the following actions:
   A.   That buildings or other structures on the property be closed,
demolished, or removed;
   B.   That fixtures, furniture, or other moveable property be moved or
removed entirely;
   C.   That improvements, alterations, modifications, or repairs be made; or
   D.   That any other action be taken as necessary to bring the property into
compliance with this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.9.   Equitable Remedy
The Town may apply to a court of law for any appropriate equitable remedy to
enforce the provisions of this Ordinance. The fact that other remedies are
provided under general law of this Ordinance shall not be used by a violator as
a defense to the Town's application for equitable relief.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.10.   State and Common Law Remedies
In addition to other enforcement provisions contained in this section, the
Board of Commissioners may exercise any and all enforcement powers granted to
it by state law or common law.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.11.   Previous Enforcement
Nothing in this Ordinance shall prohibit the continuation of previous
enforcement actions.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.8.12.   Remedies; Cumulative and Continuous
All such remedies provided herein shall be cumulative. To the extent that North
Carolina law may limit the availability of a particular remedy set forth herein
for a certain violation or a part thereof, such remedy shall remain available
for other violations or other parts of the same violation.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.   ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES
8.9.1.   Responsible Parties
Any person who violates any provision of this Ordinance, including the owner or
occupant of any land, building, structure, sign, use of land, or part thereof,
may be held responsible for the violation and subject to the penalties and
remedies provided in this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.2.   Notice
   A.   Notification Required. Civil penalties may not be assessed until the
responsible person in violation has been notified in accordance with Section
8.7, Enforcement Procedure.
   B.   Civil Penalty Imposed. If after receiving a written notice of violation
under Section
8.7, Enforcement Procedure, the person fails to take corrective action or file
an appeal, a civil penalty may be imposed in accordance with this section.
   C.   Notice of Penalty Assessment. Notice of the civil penalty assessment
shall be served in the same manner as a notice of violation.
   D.   Assessment Contents. The assessment notice shall state the nature of
the violation, the civil penalty to be imposed upon the violator, and shall
direct the violator to pay the civil penalty within 30 days of the date of the
notice.
   E.   Separate Notices. Separate notices must be provided for the first or
second violations. The Town may, in its discretion, treat the first notice for
a violation as the final notice for chronic violators.
   F.   Assessment until Compliance. Civil penalties may be assessed until
compliance is achieved.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.3.   Continuing Violation
For each day the violation is not corrected, the violator will be guilty of an
additional and separate offense and subject to additional civil penalty.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.4.   Demand for Payment
If compliance is not achieved, then the Planning Director shall make written
demand for payment of penalties that have accrued while the property has been
in violation. The demand for payment shall be sent to the responsible person in
violation and must include a description of the violation for which the civil
penalties have been imposed.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.5.   Nonpayment
If payment is not received or equitable settlement reached within 30 days after
demand for payment is made, the Town may recover any unpaid civil penalty by
filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.6.   Penalties
Any person who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be subject to
assessment of a civil penalty for each succeeding violation over the course of
a calendar year.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.9.7.   Civil Penalties in the R1 District
In addition to the remedies available in Section
8.8, Remedies, and the standards related to the assessment of civil penalties
in this section, the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission may
also assess civil penalties for violation of the R1 district standards in
accordance with Section 143-215.6A of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.   ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS FOR VIOLATIONS IN THE FHO DISTRICT
This section sets out the standards pertaining to violations of Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.1.   Violations to Be Corrected
When the Floodplain Administrator finds violations of applicable state and
local laws, it shall be their duty to notify the owner or occupant of the
building of the violation. The owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each
of the violations of law cited in the notification.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.2.   Inspections of Work in Progress
   A.   As the work pursuant to a permit progresses, the Floodplain
Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to
ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of this
Ordinance and the terms of the permit.
   B.   In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.3.   Stop-Work Orders
   A.   Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed,
reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this Ordinance, the
Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped.
   B.   The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing the work in a manner consistent with applicable law. The stop-work order
shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons for the
stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
   C.   Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.4.   Revocation of Permits
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
for the revocation.
   B.   Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
   C.   Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.5.   Periodic Inspections
The Floodplain Administrator shall have a right upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the Town's planning jurisdiction
at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement
action.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.6.   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action
If the owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective
action, the Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by
certified or registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal
service, stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of this Ordinance;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, demolish the building, remove fill, or take such
actions as necessary to comply with applicable laws.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.7.   Order to Take Corrective Action
   A.   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the
Floodplain Administrator shall find that the building or development is in
violation of this Ordinance, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner,
requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not
less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days.
   B.   Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger
to life or other property, they may order that corrective action be taken in a
lesser period as may be feasible.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.8.   Appeal
   A.   Any landowner who has received an order to take corrective action may
appeal the order to the BOA body by giving notice of appeal in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator within ten days following issuance of the final order.
   B.   The BOA shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm or revoke the order.
   C.   In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator
shall be final.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
8.10.9.   Failure to Comply with Order
If the owner of a building or property fails to comply with an order to take
corrective action for which no appeal has been made or fails to comply with an
order of the governing body following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
ARTICLE 9 - MEASUREMENTS AND DEFINITIONS
Article 9 - Measurements and Definitions
9:   Measurement and Definitions
9.1.   Rules of Language Construction
9.1.1.   Meanings and Intent
9.1.2.   Headings, Illustrations, and Text
9.1.3.   Lists and Examples
9.1.4.   Computation of Time
9.1.5.   Time-Related Language
9.1.6.   References to this Ordinance
9.1.7.   References to Other Regulations or Publications
9.1.8.   References to North Carolina General Statutes
9.1.9.   Delegation of Authority
9.1.10.   Joint Authority
9.1.11.   Technical and Non-Technical Terms
9.1.12.   Public Officials and Agencies
9.1.13.   Mandatory and Discretionary Terms
9.1.14.   Conjunctions
9.1.15.   Tenses, Plurals, and Gender of Words
9.1.16.   Oath
9.1.17.   Term Not Defined
9.2.   Table of Abbreviations
9.3.   Rules of Measurement
9.3.1.   Purpose
9.3.2.   Measurements, Generally
9.3.3.   Lot Dimensions
9.3.4.   Setbacks
9.3.5.   Setback Encroachments
9.3.6.   Residential Density
9.3.7.   Gross Floor Area (GFA)
9.3.8.   Height
9.3.9.   Lot Coverage
9.3.10.   Slope and Elevation
9.3.11.   Parking Space Computation
9.3.12.   Landscaping
9.3.13.   Signage Measurement
9.3.14.   Exterior Lighting
9.3.15.   Fence and Wall Height
9.4.   Definitions
9.1.   RULES OF LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTION
The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the terms and
provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.1   Meanings and Intent
   A.   All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this
Ordinance shall be interpreted in accordance with the general purposes set
forth in Section
1.4, Purpose and Intent, and the specific purpose statements set forth
throughout this Ordinance.
   B.   When a specific section of these regulations gives a different meaning
than the general definition provided in Section
9.4, Definitions, the specific section's meaning and application of the term
shall control.
   C.   Terms that are not defined are subject to their common or customary
meaning.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.2.   Headings, Illustrations, and Text
   A.   In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the text of this
Ordinance and any heading, caption, figure, illustration, table, or map, the
text shall control.
   B.   Graphics and other illustrations are provided for informational
purposes only and should not be relied upon as a complete and accurate
description of all applicable regulations or requirements.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.3.   Lists and Examples
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items, or examples that use
terms like "for example," "including," and "such as," or similar language are
intended to provide examples and are not exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.4.   Computation of Time
The time in which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day. If a deadline or required date of action falls
on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the town, the deadline or
required date of action shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday,
or holiday observed by the town.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.5.   Time-Related Language
   A.   Time Standard. Whenever certain hours are named, they shall mean
standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use by the town.
   B.   Day. The term "day" means a calendar day, or any day during a week,
including business days and weekend days.
   C.   Holiday. The term "holiday" means a legal holiday recognized by the
Town.
   D.   Week. The term "week" means five business days and two weekend days.
Weeks commence on a Monday.
   E.   Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
   F.   Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
   G.   Temporary. The term "temporary" shall mean a condition lasting for only
a limited period of time; not permanent.
   H.   Fiscal Year. The term "fiscal year" shall mean 12 consecutive months
ending on the last day of any month except December.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.6.   References to this Ordinance
A reference to an article, section, subsection, or paragraph means an article,
section, subsection, or paragraph of this Ordinance, unless otherwise
specified.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.7.   References to Other Regulations or Publications
Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or
document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of
such regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document,
unless otherwise specifically stated.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.8.   References to North Carolina General Statutes
Whenever any provision of this Ordinance refers to or cites a section of the
North Carolina General Statutes and that section is later amended or
superseded, this Ordinance shall be construed to refer to the amended section.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.9.   Delegation of Authority
Whenever a provision of this Ordinance requires or authorizes an officer or
employee of the town to do some act or perform some duty, the officer or
employee may designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the act
or duty unless the terms of the provision specifically provide otherwise.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.10.   Joint Authority
All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall
be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or
officers.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.11.   Technical and Non-Technical Terms
Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage
of the language, but technical words and phrases that may have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.12.   Public Officials and Agencies
All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which references are made are
those of the Town of Zebulon, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.13.   Mandatory and Discretionary Terms
The words "shall," "must," and "will" are mandatory in nature, establishing an
obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision. The words "may,"
"can," and "should" are permissive in nature.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.14.   Conjunctions
Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply.
   B.   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events apply.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.15.   Tenses, Plurals, and Gender of Words
   A.   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future tense
as well as the past and present.
   B.   Number. Words used in the singular number include the plural number and
the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.16.   Oath
The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in
which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases
the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and
"affirmed."
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.1.17.   Term Not Defined
If a term used in any article of this Ordinance is not defined, the Planning
Director is authorized to interpret the term in accordance with Section
2.2.12, Interpretation, based upon the definitions used in professionally
accepted sources.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
TABLE 9.2:   TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS
Table 9.2: Abbreviations, is a summary table of abbreviations used in this
Ordinance.
TABLE 9.2: ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviation Term
TABLE 9.2: ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviation Term
BFE          Base Flood Elevation
BMP          Best Management Practice
BOA          Board of Adjustment
CG           Commercial General
CI           Commercial Intense
CN           Commercial Neighborhood
CO           Certificate of Occupancy
DTC          Downtown Core
DTP          Downtown Periphery
ETJ          Extra Territorial Jurisdiction
FIRM         Flood Insurance Rate Map
FIS          Flood Insurance Study
IL           Industrial Light
IC           Industrial Campus
IH           Industrial Heavy
NC           North Carolina
NCAC         North Carolina Administrative Code
NCDEQ        North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality
NCDOT        North Carolina Department of Transportation
 
TABLE 9.2: ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviation Term
NCGS         North Carolina General Statutes
NFIP         National Flood Insurance Program
OI           Office Institutional
PD           Planned Development
PIN          Parcel Identification Number
R1           Residential Rural
R2           Residential Suburban
R4           Residential Neighborhood
R6           Residential Urban
ROW          Right-of-Way
TIA          Transportation Impact Analysis
TRC          Technical Review Committee
UDO          Unified Development Ordinance
BA           Watershed Balance
CA           Watershed Critical Area
WSW          Water Supply Watershed
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.   RULES OF MEASUREMENT
9.3.1.   Purpose
The purpose of this section is to clarify the rules of measurement and
exemptions that apply to all principal and accessory uses allowed in this
Ordinance. These standards may be modified by other applicable sections of this
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.2.   Measurements, Generally
   A.   Straight Lines. Unless otherwise stated in this Ordinance, distances
specified in this Ordinance are to be measured as the length of an imaginary
straight line joining two points.
   B.   Rounding. All calculations that result in a fractional unit or part of
a whole number, the number shall be rounded up to the next highest whole
number, unless otherwise provided in this section or elsewhere in this
Ordinance.
   C.   Irregular Shapes. In cases where an irregular shape complicates the
application of these standards, the Planning Director shall determine the
applicable dimensional, setback, or bulk standards in accordance with the
standards in this section and Section
2.2.12, Interpretation.
   D.   Separation.
      1.   Lot to Lot. When the provisions of this Ordinance require separation
between two or more lots, or a lot and another feature, separation shall be
measured by drawing straight lines from the nearest point of one lot line to
the nearest point of the lot line subject to the separation requirement (see
Figure 9.3.2.D: Separation).
      2.   Use Type to Use Type. When the provisions of this Ordinance require
one use type to be separated from another use type, separation shall be
measured by drawing straight lines from the nearest point of the wall of one
existing or proposed principal structure to the nearest point of the wall of
another existing or proposed structure subject to the separation requirement.
Figure 9.3.2.D: Separation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-446.jpg]
   E.   Abutting Versus Adjacent.
      1.   Abutting. The term abutting describes a condition where two or more
features (a lot line, building, driveway, etc.) are immediately beside or next
to one another either on the same lot or on different lots sharing a common lot
line.
      2.   Adjacent. The term adjacent describes a condition where two or more
similar features (a lot line, building, use type, structure, site feature,
etc.) are proximate to one another, but are separated by some form of
intervening feature, such as a street, alley, water feature, railroad, lot or
property under separate ownership, or natural feature of sufficient size so as
to prevent direct site or impede the movement of sound from one feature to
another.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.3.   Lot Dimensions
   A.   Lot Measurements.
      1.   Acreage. The total number or gross number of acres on a tract or
site.
      2.   Lot Depth. The dimension measured from the front of the lot to the
extreme rear line of the lot. In case of irregularly shaped lots, the mean
depth shall be taken.
      3.   Lot Width. The width of a lot is measured at right angles to its
depth at the edge of the street setback or at a proposed building setback line,
whichever is further from the street right-of-way.
      4.   Minimum Lot Area. The minimum amount of required land area, measured
horizontally, that must be included within the lines of a lot (see
Figure 9.3.3.A: Lot Measurement). Lands located within any private easements
shall be included within the lot area.
      5.   Street Frontage. The length of the lot line of a single lot abutting
a public or existing private street right-of-way.
Figure 9.3.3.A: Lot Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-448.jpg]
   B.   Lot Lines. A lot line is a line of record bounding a lot which
separates one lot from another lot or separates that lot from a public or
private street or any other public space (see
Figure 9.3.3.B: Lot Lines). The following terms describe differing types of lot
lines:
      1.   Front Lot Line. The lot line connecting the two side lot lines along
the edge of the street that provides a lot's street address or that opposes the
primary entrance of a building.
      2.   Rear Lot Line. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front
lot line.
      3.   Side Lot Line. The lot line connecting the front and rear lot lines
regardless of whether it abuts a right-of-way or another lot line.
Figure 9.3.3.B: Lot Lines
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-450.jpg]
   C.   Lot Types.
      1.   Corner Lot. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two street lines or a single street which make(s) an angle of
more than 45 degrees and less than 135 degrees. The front of the lot is the lot
line adjacent to the street from which the lot obtains its street address.
      2.   Flag Lot. A lot having shape and configuration so that it connects
to street frontage by an extension and/or arm of the main portion of the lot.
      3.   Interior Lot. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      4.   Lot of Record. A lot that is a part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds, as
appropriate or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which
has been recorded with the Wake County Register of Deeds, as appropriate.
      5.   Through Lot (Double Frontage Lot). A lot which fronts upon two
parallel streets, and/or which fronts upon two streets which do not intersect
at the boundaries of the lot.
Figure 9.3.3.C: Lot Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-452.jpg]
   D.   Lots Serving Condominium Use Types. Individual condominium uses,
whether residential or nonresidential, are exempted from minimum lot area
requirements in this Ordinance, but shall be located on a larger site or parent
tract that meets the standards for the zoning district where located.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.4.   Setbacks
A setback is the horizontal distance from a lot line or street right-of-way
line to the nearest part of the applicable building, structure, sign, or
activity, measured perpendicularly to the line.
   A.   Perimeter Setback. Setbacks applied to multiple building developments
or multiple lot developments that apply only to the outermost buildings along
the perimeter of a development. A perimeter setback does not apply along
streets.
   B.   Rear Setback. A setback from an interior lot line lying on the opposite
side of the lot from the front setback.
   C.   Side Setback. Any interior property line setback other than a rear
setback.
   D.   Setbacks from Railroads or Sidings. Lots in business or special
district abutting a railroad or railroading siding are not required to provide
a side or rear setback from the railroad or siding.
   E.   Street Setback.
      1.   A setback measured from the right-of-way edge associated with a
public or existing private street.
      2.   The street setback is a minimum setback, and nothing shall prohibit
a building from being located farther from the street right-of-way.
      3.   In cases where the street right-of-way edge is not readily
identifiable, the location of the right-of-way edge shall be determined by
measuring outwards from the street centerline one-half of the total right-of-
way width. The right-of-way edge location shall be certified by a professional
engineer or land surveyor licensed by the State of North Carolina.
      4.   Lots shall provide a street setback from all lot lines abutting a
street (excluding alleys).
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.5.   Setback Encroachments
Table 9.3.5: Allowable Encroachment into Required Setbacks, sets out the kinds
of features that are permitted to encroach within a required setback, provided
they do not obstruct visibility for motorists at any street intersection (see
Figure 9.3.5: Setback Encroachments).
TABLE 9.3.5: ALLOWABLE ENCROACHMENT INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS
Feature Maximum Allowable Encroachment Distance into a Required Setback
TABLE 9.3.5: ALLOWABLE ENCROACHMENT INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS
Feature                                 Maximum Allowable Encroachment Distance
                                        into a Required Setback
                                        May encroach into any setback up to
                                        eight feet, but shall maintain a
Awnings                                 minimum height of at least nine feet
                                        above a sidewalk or other pedestrian
                                        access
                                        May extend up to four feet into any
Balcony or Bay Window                   required setback within a residential
                                        zoning district, but shall be no closer
                                        than three feet from any lot line
                                        Allowed within a setback, but no closer
Bicycle Parking Facilities              than five feet to the edge of the
                                        pavement of a street
                                        May encroach into any setback up to
                                        three feet, but shall maintain a
                                        minimum height of at least nine feet
Canopy, Attached                        above a sidewalk or other pedestrian
                                        access. In the CBD district, a canopy
                                        shall maintain a minimum distance of at
                                        least two feet from the back of the
                                        curb
                                        May be located in a setback provided no
Canopy, Freestanding                    portion is closer than 15 feet to a
                                        street right-of-way
Chimneys, Fireplaces, Outdoor Kitchens, May extend up to four feet into any
or Steps                                setback, but shall be no closer than
                                        three feet from any lot line
Cornice, Beltcourse, or Sill            May extend up to one-and-one-half feet
                                        into any required setback
Decks, Covered                          Subject to the setbacks applied to
                                        principal structures
Decks, Uncovered                        Subject to the setbacks applied to
                                        principal structures
Decks, Uncovered -Within Six Inches of  May extend up to four feet into a
Grade                                   required side yard or ten feet into a
                                        required front or rear yard
Driveways                               May be located in any required setback
Elevators and Similar Mechanical        May encroach into side setbacks no more
Devices                                 than 18 inches and rear setbacks no
                                        more than 36 inches
                                        May be located in any required setback,
Fences or Walls, Excluding Retaining    subject to the limitations in Section
Walls                                   5.5, Fences and Walls, but shall not be
                                        located within a required sight
                                        distance triangle
 
TABLE 9.3.5: ALLOWABLE ENCROACHMENT INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS
Feature                                 Maximum Allowable Encroachment Distance
                                        into a Required Setback
Flagpoles, Mailboxes, Lamp and Address  May be located in any required setback
Posts
                                        May be located within rear yard,
Garage                                  provided the structure is more than 10
                                        feet from the principal dwelling
Gazebo or Garden Structure              May not be located within a street
                                        setback
                                        May be located in any required setback
Handicap Ramps                          provided it does not unduly obstruct
                                        pedestrian or vehicular access
Outdoor Equipment (e.g., HVAC           May extend up to four feet into any
condenser, water heater, etc.) Serving  required setback
Single-Family Detached Residential Use
Outdoor Equipment Serving a Use Other   May encroach into a required setback
than Single-Family Detached Residential except when the required setback is
                                        five feet or less
Outdoor Seating Areas Serving a         May encroach into a setback up to eight
Nonresidential Use                      feet
Outdoor Storage                         May not encroach into a required
                                        setback
Patio, Covered                          Subject to the setbacks applied to
                                        principal structures
                                        May extend up to four feet into a
Patio, Uncovered                        required side yard or ten feet into a
                                        required front or rear yard
Pet Shelters                            Subject to the setbacks applied to
                                        principal structures
                                        When located ten or more feet from the
Playground Equipment Accessory to a     principal structure, may be located
Residential Use                         within five feet of a side or rear lot
                                        line, but shall not be located within a
                                        required street setback
 
TABLE 9.3.5: ALLOWABLE ENCROACHMENT INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS
Feature                                Maximum Allowable Encroachment Distance
                                       into a Required Setback
Retaining Walls                        May encroach into a required setback
Roof Eaves, Rakes, and Overhangs       May extend up to four feet into any
                                       required setback
                                       May extend into any required setback in
Signs                                  accordance with Section
                                       5.11, Signage
                                       May extend into a required side or rear
Swimming Pool (including all ancillary setback, but shall be no closer than
appurtenances)                         five feet to a lot line or ten feet from
                                       the principal structure
Underground Structures (including
septic systems but excluding swimming  May be located in any required setback
pools)
Vegetation and Landscaping Features    May be located in any required setback
                                       May be located in any required setback
Vehicular Off-Street Parking Area      provided that no parking area is located
                                       within five feet of the street right-of-
                                       way
                                       May be located in any required setback,
Well House (functional or aesthetic)   but shall be no closer than eight feet
                                       from a right-of-way
 
Figure 9.3.5: Setback Encroachments
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-454.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.6.   Residential Density
Residential density is the maximum allowable number of residential dwelling
units permitted on a particular site, tract, lot, or other unit of land area,
typically expressed as a maximum number of residential units per acre.
   A.   Calculation.
      1.   Maximum residential density is calculated by dividing the square
footage of a lot by the number of square feet in an acre (43,560), then
multiplying the maximum number dwelling units allowed in the zoning district,
and rounding the product downwards to remove any fractions.
         Example:
         Lot size: 52,000 square feet / 43,560 = 1.19 acres.
Zoning district maximum density is 1.08 units per acre: 1.19 x 1.08 = 1.28.
Maximum number of residential units = 1 (fractions are rounded downwards).
      2.   Land area associated with floodplains and riparian buffers may be
included in the calculation of the square footage of a tract or site for the
purposes of determining the maximum residential density.
      3.   Land area located within a right-of-way shall not be included in the
calculation of allowable density.
      4.   Maximum residential density in a particular zoning district may be
increased beyond the amount stated in
Article 3: Districts, in accordance with the standards in Section
5.12, Sustainability Incentives.
   B.   Density Equivalence.
      1.   Accessory dwelling units associated with a single-family residential
principal use shall not be counted towards the maximum allowable residential
density.
      2.   When calculating the density for a private dormitory associated with
an educational use, two bedrooms in a private dormitory shall be equivalent to
one regular dwelling unit.
      3.   Maximum density amounts do not apply to student housing or lodging
on college or university campuses when the housing is owned or operated by the
college or university. In these instances, residential land uses are considered
as an accessory to the college or university principal use.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.7.   Gross Floor Area (GFA)
Gross floor area (GFA) shall be defined as the sum in square feet of all floors
of the building measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls. The
gross floor area shall include or exclude areas as indicated below:
   A.   Areas Included in Gross Floor Area.
      1.   All enclosed habitable space.
      2.   Elevators, hallways, and stairwells on stories containing habitable
space.
   B.   Areas Excluded from Gross Floor Area.
      1.   Unenclosed porches or decks.
      2.   Off-street parking areas, including the elevators, hallways,
mechanical equipment, and stairwells on stories containing off-street parking.
      3.   Utility services areas devoted to the electric service, the potable
water service, the wastewater system, the telephone service, the cable service,
or to a backup generator.
      4.   Mechanical areas and uninhabited enclosed spaces on tops of roofs
not intended for general storage.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.8.   Height
   A.   Measurement. Building height shall be measured from the finished or
established grade elevation following any land disturbing activities.
   B.   Maximum Height. Building height is the vertical distance from a point
established as the mean elevation of the finished grade along the front facade
of a building to any of the following points (see
Figure 9.3.8: Building Height):
      1.   The highest point of a flat roof (excluding coping or parapet walls
shorter than five feet above the roof deck);
      2.   The deck line of a mansard roof;
      3.   The mid-point of the roof between the ridge and the eaves for a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof; or
      4.   To the highest point of a dome, shed, or cricket-style roof.
   C.   Story. A building story is the portion of a building where all rooms
share the same floor and ceiling level.
      1.   A crawlspace or basement with an average ceiling height of less than
seven feet is not considered as a story.
      2.   An attic with an average ceiling height of less than six feet is not
considered a story.
Figure 9.3.8: Building Height
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-456.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.9.   Lot Coverage
   A.   Lot coverage is the percentage of a lot or development site that is
covered by impervious, or built-upon area.
   B.   Built-upon area includes buildings, structures, pavement, and site
features that are impervious or partially impervious to rain or stormwater
runoff.
   C.   The following features are not considered impervious, and as a result
are not included within the built-upon area:
      1.   A slatted deck or walkway;
      2.   The water area of a swimming pool;
      3.   A surface covered by number 57 stone, as designated by the American
Society for Testing and Materials, laid at least four inches thick over a
geotextile fabric;
      4.   A trail as defined in Section 143B-139.4 of the North Carolina
General Statutes that is either unpaved or paved as long as the pavement is
porous with a hydraulic conductivity greater than 0.001 centimeters per second
(1.41 inches per hour); or
      5.   Landscaping material, including, but not limited to, gravel, mulch,
sand, and vegetation, placed on areas that receive pedestrian or bicycle
traffic or on portions of driveways and parking areas that will not be
compacted by the weight of a vehicle, such as the area between sections of
pavement that support the weight of a vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.10.   Slope and Elevation
   A.   Slope. The degree of deviation of the ground surface from a flat,
horizontal elevation, usually expressed in percent or degrees of deviation from
horizontal.
   B.   Base Flood Elevation (BFE). A determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When
the BFE has not been provided for land within the FHO, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, State, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation establishes the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation.
   C.   Finished Grade. The established grade following grading, excavation, or
other land-disturbing activity.
   D.   Natural Grade. The level of the ground elevation prior to the
commencement of development or land disturbing activity (see
Figure 9.3.10: Grade Determination).
   E.   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation. The minimum height allowable for
lowest structural member comprising habitable space within a building. This is
a height equivalent to two linear feet in elevation above the base flood
elevation.
Figure 9.3.10: Grade Determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-458.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.11.   Parking Space Computation
   A.   Rounding. When computation of the number of required parking spaces
results in a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded downwards to the previous
whole number.
   B.   Multiple and Mixed Uses. Unless otherwise approved, development
containing more than one principal use shall provide off-street parking in an
amount equal to the total requirements of all individual uses, unless the
Planning Director determines that a lower standard would be adequate because of
differences in peak operating hours.
   C.   Seat Based Standards. Where the minimum number of off-street parking
spaces is based on the number of seats, all computations shall be based on the
number of seats provided, including outdoor and waiting areas.
   D.   Employee Based Standards. When the minimum number of off-street parking
spaces is based on the number of employees, the computations shall be based on
the number of employees on the largest shift.
   E.   Floor-Area Based Standards. Here the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces is based on square feet of floor area, all computations shall be
based on gross floor area. The square footage shall include outdoor use area.
   F.   Parking Space and Access Aisle Dimensions.
Figure 9.3.11.F, Parking Space and Access Aisle Dimensions, sets out the
minimum off-street parking space dimensions and minimum widths of access
aisles.
Figure 9.3.11.F: Parking Space and Aisle Dimensions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1971.png]
(Ord. 2020-36, passe d 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-11, passe d 10-7-2024)
9.3.12.   Landscaping
   A.   Determining Tree Size at Time of Planting.
      1.   Trees under Four Inches in Caliper. Minimum size at time of planting
shall be determined by taking a measurement of the girth or circumference of
the tree trunk, in inches, at a height of six inches above the bole, or the
location where tree trunk meets the soil it is planted in.
      2.   Trees over Four, but less than Twelve Inches, in Caliper. Minimum
size at time of planting shall be determined by taking a measurement of the
girth or circumference of the tree trunk, in inches, at a height of 12 inches
above the bole, or the location where tree trunk meets the soil it is planted
in.
Figure 9.3.12: Plant Size Determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-462.jpg]
   B.   Determining Tree Size of Existing Trees.
      1.   Existing tree size shall be determined by taking a measurement of
the girth or circumference of the tree trunk, in inches, at a height of four-
and-one-half feet above the bole, or the location where tree trunk meets the
soil it is planted in.
      2.   In the case of a multi-stemmed tree, the cumulative DBH shall be the
square root of the sum of all the individual stem diameters squared. As an
alternative, the tree's basal area is the sum of the diameters of all tree
stems.
   C.   Rounding. When computation of the amount of landscaping material to be
provided results in a fraction, the minimum number of shrubs or trees to be
provided shall be rounded upwards to the next highest whole number.
   D.   Calculation of Required Landscaping Yard or Area Distances.
      1.   In cases where a driveway, sidewalk, or greenway trail intersects a
required landscaping area or yard, the width of these features shall be
subtracted from the yard or area distance.
      2.   In cases where an easement that prohibits the placement of
landscaping material intersects a required landscaping yard or area, the width
of the easement shall not be subtracted from the required yard or area
distance. Required plant material shall be located outside the easement but
within the required landscaping area or yard.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.13.   Signage Measurement
   A.   Sign Area Determination.
      1.   The surface area of a sign is computed as including the entire area
within a parallelogram, triangle, circle, semi-circle, or other regular
geometric figure, including all of the elements of the display, including
incidental or changeable copy signage, frames, display of identification or
licensing officially required by any governmental body, and structural
elements.
      2.   The supporting structure for a projecting sign shall not be included
within the calculation of the surface area of a sign.
      3.   In the case of signs mounted back-to-back, only one side of the sign
is to be included in the calculation of sign face area. Otherwise, the surface
area of each sign is to be separately computed.
      4.   When two identical sign faces are placed back to back so that both
faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign
faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches
apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
      5.   For multi-faced signs, the sign area shall be computed by including
all sign faces visible from any one point.
      6.   In the case of cylindrical signs, signs in the shape of cubes, or
other signs, which are substantially three-dimensional with respect to their
display surfaces, the entire display surface or surfaces, is included in
computations of area.
      7.   Embellishments such as display portions of signs extending outside
the general display area, incidental signage, changeable copy, or supplemental
signage affixed to or included on a sign or sign support structure shall be
computed as part of the total surface area of the sign.
      8.   If a sign is attached to an entrance wall or fence, only that
portion of that wall or fence on which the sign face or letters are placed
shall be calculated in the sign area.
Figure 9.3.13.A: Sign Face Area Determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-464.jpg]
   B.   Sign Height Determination.
      1.   Sign height shall be computed as the distance from the base of the
sign at the finished grade or from the nearest adjacent street grade to which
the sign is oriented and on which the lot has frontage, whichever is higher, to
the top of the highest component of the sign.
      2.   Finished grade shall be the grade after construction, exclusive of
any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of
locating the sign.
Figure 9.3.13.B: Sign Height Determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-466.jpg]
   C.   Wall Area (For the Purposes of Sign Area Measurement). For the purposes
of determining allowable sign area, a wall is the vertical exterior surface of
a building, the area of which shall be determined as follows:
      1.   The area of all parallel vertical surfaces along a single building
elevation regardless of offsets shall be counted as one wall.
      2.   The front of each unit of a multiple tenant commercial building
shall be counted as a separate wall.
      3.   The area of an angled wall surface shall be counted as part of
whichever adjoining wall surface it is most parallel with.
      4.   A 45-degree angled wall may be counted as part of the area of either
adjoining wall, but not as a part of both.
Figure 9.3.13.C: Wall Sign Determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-468.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.14.   Exterior Lighting
   A.   Measured at the Lot Line. Light level measurements shall be made at the
lot line of the land upon which light to be measured is being generated. If
measurement on private property is not possible or practical, light level
measurements may be made at the boundary of the public street right-of-way that
adjoins the land.
   B.   Measured at Finished Grade. Measurements shall be made at finished
grade (ground level), with the light-registering portion of the meter held
parallel to the ground pointing up. The meter shall have cosine and color
correction and have an accuracy tolerance of no greater than plus or minus five
percent.
   C.   Measurement Device. Measurements shall be taken with a light meter that
has been calibrated within two years.
Figure 9.3.14: Lighting Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-470.jpg]
(Ord.2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.3.15.   Fence and Wall Height
   A.   Measurement Location.
      1.   In cases where a fence or wall is located within a required setback
or required yard, fence height shall be determined along the grade of the
adjacent lot or street.
      2.   In cases where a fence or wall is located outside a required setback
or yard, the height shall be determined based on the finished grade.
      3.   In cases where a fence or wall is placed on a berm, the maximum
fence or wall height shall include the height of the berm, as measured from the
toe of the slope.
      4.   Fence height shall be measured at the highest point above grade (not
including columns or fence posts) on the portion of the fence nearest an
abutting or adjacent lot or street right-of-way.
   B.   Column and Post Height. Columns or posts shall not exceed a height 18
inches above the built height of the fence.
   C.   Railings Not Included. Safety railings required by the North Carolina
Building Code shall not be included in wall height measurements.
Figure 9.3.15: Fence and Wall Height Determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2495b05de12b236a14759a1c64ca1c1b1104f32d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-472.jpg]
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
9.4.   DEFINITIONS
This section includes definitions of terms used throughout this Ordinance.
DEFINITIONS
A
Abandonment    The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the principal and any
               accessory uses of the property for a continuous period.
               The condition of two parcels of land having a common property line or
Abutting       boundary, including cases where two or more parcels of land adjoin at a
               corner, but not including cases where parcels of land are separated by a
               street, water body, or right-of-way.
Accent         The use of an alternate material or color to a detail that is emphasized by
               contrasting with its surroundings.
Access         An easement which grants the right to cross land.
Easement
Accessible     An off-street parking space provided for the exclusive use of vehicles serving
Parking Space  disabled persons.
Accessory      See "Accessory Structure."
Building
Accessory      A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction with and clearly
Dwelling Unit  subordinate to a principal dwelling unit, whether part of the same structure
               as the principal dwelling unit or as a detached structure on the same lot.
Accessory      A detached subordinate or incidental structure, the use of which is incidental
Structure      to the principal structure and which is located on the same lot as the
               principal structure.
Accessory Use  A use that is incidental and subordinate to the principal use of land or
               buildings and located on the same lot.
Accessway      A paved or unpaved travelway intended to serve vehicles for the purposes of
               obtaining ingress, egress, or circulation around a lot or site.
Acquisition    Act or process of acquiring fee title of real property (including the
               acquisition of development rights or remainder interest).
Active Open    Land set aside for the residents or a development and under common ownership
Space Set-     that is configured for active forms of recreation. Active open space typically
Aside          includes playgrounds, athletic fields and courts, and similar features devoted
               to movement, activity, or sports pursuits.
Active         Uses or structures intended for specific active recreational uses such as play
Recreation     grounds, ball fields, tennis courts and other similar uses typically located
Uses           in open space set-aside areas or parks.
               An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or
               structure.
Addition (to   For the purposes of Section
an existing    3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Any walled and roofed expansion to
building)      the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common
               load-bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which
               is connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
               bearing walls is new construction.
               A parcel of land or development that shares all or part of a common lot line
Adjacent       or boundary with another parcel of land, or a parcel of land that would abut
               another parcel of land, but for the fact a street, water body, or right-of-way
               divides the parcels.
Administrative A request by an applicant to deviate from a specified numerical standard of
Adjustment     this UDO by a specified percentage, subject to consistency with applicable
               review criteria.
               The combined future land-use policy guidance provided by the adopted
Adopted Policy comprehensive plan, area or corridor plans prepared for specific parts of the
Guidance       Town, system plans related to the town's infrastructure systems, and other
               plans.
               Also known as Sexually Oriented Business.
               Any place defined as an Adult Establishment as defined by G.S. § 14-202.10 as
Adult Business the statute may be amended time to time, including adult cabarets and except
               the definitions of Massage Business shall not include any establishment or
               business where massage is practiced that is a health club, exercise studio,
               hospital, physical therapy business or other similar health related business.
               Sexually Oriented Business specifically includes, however, any massage
               business where massages are rendered by any person exhibiting specific
              anatomical areas and/or where massages are performed on any client's specific
               anatomical areas. Specific Anatomical Areas are those defined by G.S. § 14-
               202.10 as the statute may be amended from time to time.
               A program operated in a structure other than a single-family dwelling that
Adult Day Care provides group care and supervision on a less than 24-hour basis, and in a
Center         place other than their usual place of residence, to adults 18 years or older
               who may be physically or mentally disabled, and which is certified or approved
               to operate by the State of North Carolina.
               Owners of land adjoining the land subject to an application and any other
Affected Party person who could suffer an adverse effect to a property interest from a
               proposed development.
               Commercial establishments engaged in the sales, repair, rental, and storage of
Agricultural   tools, equipment, supplies, and machinery in support of farms, farming,
Support        agriculture, or horticulture. Uses also include sales of products grown on a
Services       farm, provision of farm-related experiences (e.g., immersion farming or pick-
               your-own establishments), wineries, and agritourism.
               The cultivation and production of orchard, garden, or nursery crops on a small
Agriculture    or large scale, the production of field grown crops, specialty crops, flowers,
and            fruit, market gardening, nuts, ornamental plants, sod, vegetables, and similar
Horticulture   horticultural uses. Uses also include agronomy, aquaculture, fisheries,
               apiculture, silviculture, plant nurseries, and similar uses.
Aircraft
Parts, Sales   The use of land for the display and sale of, or general repair, rebuilding, or
and            reconditioning of any contrivance used for navigation of or flight in the air.
Maintenance
Airport and    Any area of land or water designed and set aside for the landing and take-off
Related        of aircraft, including all necessary facilities for the housing, fueling, and
Facilities     maintenance of aircraft.
Alley          See "Street, Alley."
               Any change because of construction, repair, maintenance or otherwise to
Alteration     buildings located within a historic district or designated as a historic
               property.
               A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel alignment,
Alteration of  channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the channel or the
Watercourse    channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may alter, impede,
               retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine flow of water
               during conditions of the base flood.
Alternative    A document prepared by an applicant that proposes an alternative means of
Landscape Plan compliance with the standards in Section
               5.6, Landscaping.
Alternative    A document prepared by an applicant that proposes an alternative means of
Parking Plan   compliance with the standards in Section
               5.8, Parking and Loading.
               Equipment, including antennas, transmitters, and antenna support structures
Amateur Ham    used by a non-professional person in the transmittal of messages and
Radio          information within the radio frequency portion of the electro-magnetic
               spectrum.
               A commercial establishment providing socialization, training, or housing, in
Animal Day     the absence of the owner, for less than 24 hours for pets owned by the general
Care/Grooming  public; or where animals are bathed, clipped, or combed for the purpose of
               enhancing their aesthetic value and/or health, and for which a fee is charged.
               The commercial and non-commercial propagation, rearing, exercising, feeding,
               milking, housing, controlling, handling, or general care of living animals and
               livestock. Examples include, but are not limited to the raising and production
Animal         of cattle (beef and dairy), pigs, mules, ducks, horses, goats, poultry, sheep,
Husbandry      fish, and similar livestock or domesticated animals, and equestrian
               facilities. Concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs) are industrial
               uses. Breeding and rearing of animals typically thought of as household pets
               (e.g., dogs, cats, small rodents, etc.) is not animal husbandry.
               A facility used to house and care for stray, homeless, abandoned, or neglected
Animal Shelter animals and that is owned, operated, or maintained by a public body, an
               established humane society, or other private or nonprofit organization.
               Communications equipment that transmits and/or receives electromagnetic radio
Antenna        signals used in the provision of all types of wireless telecommunications
               services.
               The placement, installation, modification, or replacement of antenna and
               related wireless telecommunications equipment on a building's roof, on a
Antenna        building's wall, on a vertical projection not constructed for the provision of
Collocation,   wireless telecommunications services, or on a telecommunications tower where
Major          the collocation requires "substantial modifications" to the telecommunications
               tower, as defined in this Ordinance and Section 160D-931 of the North Carolina
               General Statutes.
               The placement, installation, modification, or replacement of antenna and
Antenna        related wireless telecommunications equipment on a telecommunications tower
Collocation,   that does not require "substantial modifications" and that meets the
Minor          definition of an "eligible facility request" as defined in this Ordinance and
               Section 160D-931 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
Antenna        The frame, bracket, or other mechanical device, including mounting hardware
Support        such as bolts, screws, or other fasteners used to affix an antenna to a
Structure      telecommunications tower, building, utility pole, or other vertical
               projection.
               A request for a review of an interpretation, decision, or the application of
               any provision of this Ordinance.
Appeal         For the purposes of Section
               3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: A request for a review of the
               local administrator's interpretation of any provision of this part.
               For the purposes of the standards in Section
               4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Applicable Codes means the
Applicable     North Carolina State Building Code(s), this Ordinance, the Town Code of
Codes          Ordinances, and any other uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
               mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization together
               with state or Town amendments to those codes.
Applicant      A person who has submitted a development application for review under
               applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
               The completed form or forms and all accompanying documents, exhibits, and fees
Application    required of an applicant by the appropriate town department or board as part
               of the development review processes.
Arbor          A structure with an open roof system providing partial shading and which may
               also have non-opaque fencing on the outside perimeter.
Arboretum or   A place where trees, shrubs, or other woody plants are grown, exhibited or
Formal Garden  labeled for scientific, educational, or passive recreational purposes, not
               including the harvest of plants or their produce.
Arcade         A series of arches supported by piers or columns. It is typical for an arcade
               to have habitable floor space directly above it.
Arch or        A curved, semicircular opening in a wall.
Archway
Area of        A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
Shallow        with base flood depths from one to three feet where a clearly defined channel
Flooding       does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate,
               and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of
Special Flood  See “Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)”.
Hazard
Art Gallery    A space or series of spaces dedicated towards the display, exhibition, and
               sale of works of art.
               Three-dimensional art (such as sculpture, painting, or other physical form of
Art            expression) that is created, constructed, and installed on the site where it
Installation   is displayed for the purposes of expressing an idea, feeling, or desire to
               evoke a reaction from the viewer.
Arterial       See "Street, Arterial."
Street
Articulation   The presence or projections, recesses, or other architectural features along a
               building facade.
               A space dedicated towards the production and sale of works of art. This may
Artisan Studio include mixed or various media including but not limited to paint, wood, wax,
               metal, paper, plastic, film or similar materials.
As-Built Plans A set of engineering or site drawings that delineate the specific permitted
               development as actually constructed.
               An industrial establishment engaged in the production of asphalt, macadam,
Asphalt or     blacktop, concrete, or mortar for use in the construction and repair of
Concrete Plant buildings, roadways, and vehicular use areas. The use involves the stockpiling
               of sand, binder and filler, as well as a heater to mix the ingredients, and
               trucks to deliver products to the site of installation.
               A residential facility with support and supervisory personnel for the elderly
Assisted       or infirm that provide rooms, meals, personal care, and supervision of self-
Living         administered medication. They may provide other services such as recreational
Facility       and social activities, financial services, transportation, laundry, and other
               services appropriate for the residents and designed to provide a relatively
               independent lifestyle.
Auction House  A commercial establishment engaged in the re-sale of objects, artifacts, or
               products. Such uses may also include facilities for storage and shipping.
               A building or structure designed or intended for use for spectator sports,
               entertainment events, expositions, conferences, seminars, product displays,
Auditorium     recreation activities, and other public gatherings, all occurring inside a
               structure typically limited to a capacity of 500 or fewer seats, along with
               accessory functions including temporary outdoor displays, and food and
               beverage preparation and service for on-premise consumption.
Authorized     A person with express written legal consent to act upon another's behalf.
Agent
               An automated mechanized consumer banking device operated by a financial
Automated      institution for the convenience of its customers, whether inside or outside of
Teller Machine a financial institution, or located in a structure unrelated to the financial
               institution operating it. Such uses may not serve as the principal use of a
               parcel of land or site.
Automobile     Repair of automobiles, vehicles, or trailers, including bodywork, framework,
Painting/Body  welding, and major painting service.
Shop
Automobile     The on-site sale and subsequent installation of various automobile parts and
Parts and      accessories, including but not limited to bed liners, toolboxes, truck tops,
Accessories    or audio systems. Such uses do not include the sale of gasoline or other
Sales          fuels.
Automobile
Repair and     General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, or
Servicing      trailers, not including bodywork, framework, welding, and major painting
(without       service.
painting/
bodywork)
Automobile     Premises on which new or used passenger automobiles, trailers, recreational
Sales and      vehicles, or light trucks in operating condition are displayed for sale,
Rentals        lease, or rental.
               An establishment operated for the purpose of temporary storage on-site of no
               more than nine wrecked or inoperable vehicles for a period no longer than 90
Automotive     days. If an establishment has ten or more inoperable vehicles located on-site,
Wrecker Yard   stores inoperable vehicles for more than 90 days, stacks vehicles, or portions
               of the vehicles are dismantled or removed for sale, it shall be considered a
               salvage and junkyard.
Awning         A plastic, canvas, or metal porch or shade supported by a frame and often
               foldable that is placed over a storefront, doorway, or window.
 
DEFINITIONS
B
Balance of    The entire land area within a water supply watershed contributing surface
Watershed     drainage to a specific point, the public water supply intake, minus the
              watershed critical area.
              A platform on the outside of a building that is accessible from an upper-story
Balcony       door or window and bounded by a building wall on at least one side, with its
              open sides surrounded by a railing.
              A sign of lightweight fabric or similar material which is rigidly mounted to a
Banner        pole or a building by a rigid frame at two or more opposite sides. Flags are
              mounted along one side and shall not be considered banners.
              An establishment having as its principal or predominant use the serving of beer,
              wine, or liquor for consumption on the premises, and which sets a minimum age
Bar, Cocktail requirement for entrance, consistent with state law. The primary source of
Lounge, or    revenue for such use is derived from alcohol sales, and the secondary source
Private Club  from the serving of food. Such uses may also provide on-site entertainment in
              the form of live performances, dancing, billiards, or other entertainment
              activities.
Base Flood    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
              given year.
Base Flood    A determination of the water surface elevations of the base flood as published
Elevation     in the flood insurance study.
Basement      That lowest level or story which has its floor subgrade on all sides.
Bay Window    A window, typically with two or more sides that is built to project outward from
              an outside wall.
Bed and       A private residence, generally a single-family residence, engaged in renting one
Breakfast     or more dwelling rooms on a daily basis to tourists, vacationers, and business
              people, where provision of meals is limited to breakfast for guests only.
Berm          An elongated earthen mound typically designed or constructed on a site to
              separate, screen, or buffer adjacent uses or site features.
Best          A structural or nonstructural management-based practice used singularly or in
Management    combination to reduce non-point source inputs to receiving waters in order to
Practice      achieve water quality protection goals.
(BMP)
Bicycle Lane  A portion of a street designated solely for use by bicyclists.
Bicycle       Land and facilities used for the parking of bicycles, including a mechanism for
Parking Space securing a parked bicycle.
              A stormwater infiltration device consisting of an excavated basin that is
Bio-Retention refilled with engineered soil and mulch that allows stormwater run-off to
Cell or       collect and percolate through the engineered soil where it is treated prior to
Device        infiltrating into the surrounding undisturbed soil. Also known as a rain garden
              or bio-cell.
Block         The land lying within an area bounded on all sides by streets.
              The lands abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two nearest
Block Face    intersecting or intercepting streets, railroad right-of-way, watercourse, or un-
              subdivided land.
              A facility where blood or related materials are either withdrawn or collected
              from patients or assembled after being withdrawn or collected elsewhere from
Blood/Tissue  patients for subsequent delivery to a clinical laboratory for examination. A
Collection    collection facility is maintained at a separate physical location not on the
              grounds or premises of the main licensed laboratory or institution which
              performs the testing.
Board of      A quasi-judicial decision-making body responsible for hearing appeals and
Adjustment    variance requests in Zebulon, North Carolina.
Board of      The Board of Commissioners of Zebulon, North Carolina.
Commissioners
              A residential dwelling that offers sleeping rooms for rent by lodgers staying
Boarding/     one or more nights. The dwelling contains a single common kitchen and may
Rooming House include other common areas for dining, laundry, and congregating. Boarding
              houses are not intended as group homes or halfway houses.
Boat and
Marine        Premises on which new or used boats and other marine vessels are displayed for
Rental,       sale, lease, or rental. On-site repair and service to boats is also provided.
Sales, and
Service
              Any tract or tracts of land used for farm purposes, including the production and
              activities relating or incidental to the production of crops, fruits,
              vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry, and all
              other forms of agriculture as defined in Section 106-581.1 of the North Carolina
              General Statutes. In addition, the production of a nonfarm product that the
              Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services recognizes as a "Goodness Grows
              in North Carolina" product that is produced on a farm subject to a conservation
              agreement under Section 106-743.2 of the North Carolina General Statutes is a
Bona Fide     bona fide farm purpose.
Farm          Any of the following shall constitute sufficient evidence that the property is
              being used for bona fide farm purposes:
              1.   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department of Revenue.
              2.   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is eligible
              for participation in the present use value program pursuant to Section 105-277.3
              of the North Carolina General Statutes.
              3.   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule f from the owner's or
              operator's most recent federal income tax return.
              4.   A forest management plan.
Bottle Shop   A commercial establishment engaged in the retail sale of beer, wine, or liquor
(with on      in sealed containers offered for sale to an individual solely as a sealed
premise       container such as a bottle or can. Beverages may be sold for off-site or on-site
consumption)  consumption only in accordance with all applicable State laws and permits.
              Incidental sale of food or associated merchandise may also take place.
Bow           An exterior building wall that is curved.
Bow Sign      See "Sign, Bow."
              A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is
              intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral
Breakaway     loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
Wall          the supporting foundation system. A breakaway wall shall have a design safe
              loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds per square
              foot. A wall with loading resistance of more than 20 pounds per square foot
              requires a professional engineer or architect's certificate.
Broadcasting  Uses including buildings, studios, and transmission facilities for the
Studio        production and distribution of radio and television signals.
              An area of natural or planted vegetation adjoining or surrounding a use and
              unoccupied in its entirety by any building, structure, paving or portion of such
              use, for the purposes of screening and softening the effects of the use. A
              buffer is also an area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
              runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
              and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
Buffer        This kind of buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
              impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
              For the purposes of the WPO, an area of natural or planted vegetation through
              which stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not
              become channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and
              filtering of pollutants. The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool
              elevation of impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or
              rivers.
Buffer        See "Streetscape Buffer."
Streetscape
Buffer,       Vegetative material and structures (i.e., walls, fences) that are used to
Perimeter     separate uses from each other as required by this Ordinance, including the Type
              A Separation, Type B Intermittent, Type C Semi-Opaque, and Type D, Opaque.
              A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support
              or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
Building      For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Any structure built for support,
              shelter, or enclosure for any occupancy or storage.
              An imaginary line between two points on a building that describes or explains
Building Axis how the building is organized. For example the ridgeline of a roof gable depicts
              a building's axis.
Building      A stone that forms the base of a building's most prominent corner.
Cornerstone
Building      The entire exterior wall of a building facing a lot line measured from the grade
Facade        to the eave or highest point of a flat or mansard roof. Facades may be on the
              front, side, or rear elevation of the building.
Building      The area occupied by the perimeter of a principal building. Accessory structures
Footprint     and non-building facilities are not included in the building footprint.
              Authorization granted by the town for an applicant to begin construction of a
              building or structure. For the purposes of the standards in Section
Building      4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Building Permit means an
Permit        official administrative authorization issued by the Town prior to beginning
              construction consistent with the provisions of Section 160D-1110 of the North
              Carolina General Statutes and this Ordinance.
Building Wall See "Wall, Building."
Building Wall An extension of a building wall or building facade projecting outwards from the
Projection    primary building facade plane typically used to conceal or screen a service
              element of site feature like a refuse collection container.
              A portion of a building that is subordinate to the main or central part of the
Building Wing structure. Building wings may share a wall with the main or central part of the
              building or be joined to it by another ancillary structure like a hallway or a
              colonnade.
              As used in Section
Build-Out     6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, the proposed year of completion of the
Year          land development project, when its capacity for attracting and producing traffic
              is maximized.
              A surface area composed of any material that impedes or prevents natural
              infiltration of water into the soil. Built-upon areas shall include that portion
              of a development that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
              including buildings, pavement, gravel areas (e.g., roads, parking lots, paths),
              decks, swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar surfaces.
Built-Upon    As used in Section
Area          7.4, Stormwater, that portion of a development project that is covered by
              impervious or partially impervious surface including, but not limited to,
              buildings; pavement and gravel areas such as roads, parking lots, and paths; and
              recreation facilities such as tennis courts. "Built-upon area" does not include
              a wooden slatted deck, the water area of a swimming pool, or pervious or
              partially pervious paving material to the extent that the paving material
              absorbs water or allows water to infiltrate through the paving material.
              A curb extension used to extend the sidewalk, reducing the street crossing
Bulb Out      distance for pedestrians while also allowing approaching vehicle drivers to see
              pedestrians when vehicles parked in a parking lane would otherwise block
              visibility.
              A retail establishment engaged in the retail sale of large or bulky items that
Bulky Items   are not commonly constructed or maintained indoors, such as truck camper tops,
Sales         bed liners, prefabricated outdoor buildings, manufactured homes, modular homes,
              play equipment, portable storage containers, or hot tubs. Such uses may include
              on-site assembly or fabrication of such items for sale.
              A series of between two and 12 single-family detached homes configured as a
Bungalow      cohesive development that incorporates smaller lot sizes, reduced setbacks,
Court         shared accessways, and where each home complies with the residential design
              guidelines in this Ordinance.
Business Day  Any day in which normal business is conducted. A business day does not include a
              holiday or a weekend day.
              A commercial establishment that provides support and encouragement to new
              business startups and ventures in the form of affordable floor area to rent,
Business      shared office space, shared marketing resources, and may also provide management
Incubator     training services and access to financing. Business incubators contain a wide
              array of use types, including retail, office, personal service, and light
              manufacturing uses.
 
DEFINITIONS
C
Calendar Day  Any day of the week.
              Measurement for determining the size of trees at time of planting. Caliper is
Caliper       the quantity in inches of the diameter of trees measured at six inches above the
              ground.
Camper        A portable dwelling (as a special equipped trailer or automobile vehicle) for
              use during casual travel and camping.
              A commercial establishment containing two or more campsites or cabins available
              for overnight camping use whether by rental fee or short term lease. Campgrounds
Campground    may include recreational facilities, a store for sale of food or camping
              supplies while on the premises, and facilities for the assembly of campers and
              guests. Campground does not include a summer camp, migrant labor camp,
              manufactured/mobile home park, or recreational vehicle/travel trailer park.
              A permanent structure other than an awning made of cloth, metal, or other
Canopy        material attached or unattached to a building for the purpose of providing
              shelter to patrons or automobiles, or as a decorative feature. A canopy is not a
              completely enclosed structure.
Canopy Tree   A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 40 feet or more
              with a minimum mature crown width of 30 feet.
              An establishment providing the exterior washing of vehicles where vehicles are
Car Wash or   manually driven or pulled by a conveyor through a system of rollers and/or
Automobile    brushes. Interior cleaning and/or drying may be conducted manually by vehicle
Detailing     operator or on-site attendants. Incidental sales of automobile-related
              accessories may take place.
Casualty      The damage to or loss of a nonconforming structure or use that is sudden,
damage        unexpected, and unusual. Typically associated with fire, severe weather, or Act
              of God.
              A commercial establishment that prepares, delivers, and may or may not serve
Catering      food and/or beverages to clients in a pre-arranged on-site or off-site location
Establishment at a pre-arranged time. Catering operations associated with a restaurant are
              considered eating establishments, and catering associated with a hotel, motel,
              or conference venue is considered an accessory use.
Cellular      Plastic, metal, or polymers that are installed into a matrix of earth or crushed
Reinforced    stone and used to reinforce or stabilize parking or vehicular use areas.
Paving System
Cemetery,     Uses intended for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes.
Columbarium,  This use type may include a funeral home or mortuary or a mausoleum or
or Mausoleum  columbarium (a structure or vault lined with recesses for cinerary urns), but
              does not include a crematory.
Central       The dominant upright branch (or trunk) of a tree.
Leader
Certificate   Authorization granted by the town for the occupancy of a building reviewed and
of Occupancy  approved under this Ordinance.
Certiorari    A situation where an appellant may file an appeal of a decision directly to a
              higher court of law.
              The change in the use of a building, structure, or land. "Change of use"
Change of Use includes a change from one use type to another use type or the addition of a
              separate use type.
Changeable    Text or other depictions on the face of a sign that are capable of being revised
Copy          on a regular or infrequent basis.
Check
Cashing/      An establishment engaged in loaning money upon deposit of personal property or
Payday        signature on a promise to repay. Such uses also store personal property on site
Lending       and may sell goods at retail sale.
Establishment
Chicane       A serpentine curve added to a street as a traffic calming measure.
              A program or arrangement, licensed by the State and located in the provider's
              residence where, at any one time, three or more children under the age of 13,
              receive child care on a regular basis of at least once per week for at least
              four (but less than 24) hours per day from persons other than their guardians,
Child Care,   full-time custodians, or persons related to them by blood, marriage, or
Incidental    adoption. This definition does not include child day care centers, cooperative
              arrangements among parents, or other activities not defined as child care by
              Section 110-86 of the North Carolina General Statutes. Provision of day care
              services for more than six children in a residential dwelling is subject to the
              standards for a child day care center.
              A commercial or non-profit use licensed by the State where, at any one time,
              three or more unrelated children under the age of 13 receive child care from an
              unrelated person in a building other than a private residence on a regular basis
Child Day     of at least one occurrence per week for more than four hours per occurrence.
Care Center   Such uses may also involve the provision of educational services in preparation
              for elementary school. This definition does not include incidental child care,
              cooperative arrangements among parents, or drop-in or short-term child care
              provided while parents work part-time or participate in other activities on the
              premises (e.g., churches, shopping malls, hotels, health spas).
              A commercial or non-profit use regulated by the State where, at any one time,
              three or more unrelated children under the age of 13 receive childcare from an
Child Day     unrelated person in a building other than a private residence on an irregular
Care, Drop-In basis where guardians participate in activities that are not employment related
              such as running errands or leisure activities and are otherwise easily
              accessible (within 15 minutes).
Climate       Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and similar heating or cooling equipment
Control       typically located outdoors.
Equipment
Cluster       A centralized grouping of individually locked and keyed mailboxes meeting the
Mailbox Unit  specifications of the United States Postal Service.
              A commercial establishment engaged in the retail sale of coffee, tea, and
              related beverages for on-site and off-site consumption. Coffee shops may also
              offer a limited range of food available for on-site or off-site consumption as
Coffee Shop   well as merchandise associated with home consumption of coffee or tea. A coffee
              shop may also include, as an accessory use, equipment and facilities to prepare
              coffee beans for consumption. Uses engaged solely in coffee bean processing for
              off-site consumption are manufacturing uses. Uses that derive the majority of
              their income from sales of food are restaurant uses.
              A building or structure designed or intended for use for spectator sports,
Coliseum or   entertainment events, expositions, and other public gatherings. Such uses may or
Arena         may not include lighting facilities for illuminating the field or stage area,
              concessions, parking facilities, and maintenance areas.
Collector     See "Street, Collector."
Street
              A public or private, non-profit institution for post-secondary education
              offering courses in general or technical education which operates within
              buildings or premises on land owned or leased by the institution for
College or    administrative and faculty offices, classrooms, laboratories, chapels,
University    auditoriums, lecture halls, libraries, student and faculty centers, athletic
              facilities, dormitories, fraternities and sororities, and other facilities which
              further the educational mission of the institution. In no event shall this
              definition prohibit a college or university from engaging in an activity
              historically conducted by such institutions.
              The placement, installation, modification, or replacement of antenna and related
Collocation   wireless telecommunications equipment on, under, or within an existing or
              replacement telecommunications tower, utility pole, building, or other vertical
              projection.
              The placement, installation, modification, or replacement of antenna and related
              wireless telecommunications equipment on a building's roof, on a building's
Collocation,  wall, on a vertical projection not constructed for the provision of wireless
Major         telecommunications services, or on a telecommunications tower where the
              collocation requires "substantial modifications" to the telecommunications
              tower, as defined in this Ordinance and Section 160D-931 of the North Carolina
              General Statutes.
              The placement, installation, modification, or replacement of antenna and related
Collocation,  wireless telecommunications equipment on a telecommunications tower that does
Minor         not require "substantial modifications" and that meets the definition of an
              "eligible facility request" as defined in this Ordinance and Section 160D-931 of
              the North Carolina General Statutes.
              An upright pillar, typically cylindrical and made of stone or concrete,
Column        supporting an entablature, arch, or other structure or standing alone as a
              monument.
              Legal doctrine that recognizes where property owners have reasonably made a
Common Law    substantial expenditure of money, time, labor or energy in a good faith reliance
Vested Right  on a permit from the government, that they acquire "vested rights" or a
              protected right to complete the development of their land as originally begun
              despite any changes in the zoning on the property.
Common        Actions undertaken by town staff or requirements of applicants that are
Procedure     uniformly applied to all types of development applications reviewed and decided
              under this UDO.
Community     A public building to be used as a place of meeting, recreation, or social
Center        activity and not operated for profit.
              The sum or combined effect of the attributes and assets that make the Town
Community     unique and that establish the Town "sense of place." Attributes include the
Character     resident population, local institutions, visual characteristics, natural
              features, and shared history.
Community     A private or public facility for cultivation of fruits, flowers, vegetables, or
Garden        ornamental plants by more than one person.
Community/    A public building to be used as a place of meeting, recreation, or social
Youth/ Senior activity and not operated for profit.
Center
              A complete application is one that:
              1.   Contains all information and materials established by the Planning Director
              as required for submittal of the particular type of application;
              2.   Is in the form established by the Planning Director as required for
              submittal of the particular type of application;
Complete      3.   Includes information in sufficient detail to evaluate the application to
Application   determine whether it complies with the appropriate review standards of this
              Ordinance; and
              4.   Is accompanied by the fee established for the particular type of
              application.
              An application is not considered as submitted until it is determined to be a
              complete application.
Completion of Means that no further land-disturbing activity is required on a phase of a
Construction  project except that which is necessary for establishing a permanent ground
or            cover.
Development
              A document, adopted by the Board of Commissioners, which dictates the town's
Comprehensive policy in terms of transportation, utilities, land use, recreation, and housing
Plan          and has been officially adopted by the governing board pursuant to G.S. 160D-
              501.
Comprehensive An amendment to the adopted comprehensive plan, including the future land use
Plan          map.
Amendment
              A commercial establishment engaged in diagnosis and repair of personal computers
              and associated peripherals, including printers, network equipment, monitors, and
Computer-     related equipment. Such uses may also procure replacement parts and construct
Related       computer components or systems for clients. Limited sale of new or reconstructed
Services      computers and computer equipment is an accessory use. Manufacture or assembly of
              computer systems on an industrial scale or for resale to members of the general
              public is a light manufacturing use.
              A limitation or stipulation on the range of allowable uses, density, intensity,
Condition of  configuration, or operational parameters of new development or redevelopment. A
Approval      condition may be proposed by an applicant, a staff member, or a review authority
              that must be accepted by an applicant and the town to become binding.
Conditional   A type of zoning district subject to one or more conditions included as part of
Zoning        the legislative approval by the Board of Commissioners that establishes the
District      conditional zoning district.
              A development containing individually owned dwelling units and jointly owned and
Condominium   shared areas and facilities that is subject to the North Carolina Unit Ownership
              Act (North Carolina General Statutes Ch. 47A) and/or the North Carolina
              Condominium Act (North Carolina General Statutes Section Ch. 47C).
Cone of       The detectable spread of illumination from a source of exterior lighting.
Illumination
Conference or A building or group of buildings designed for meetings, lectures, or conferences
Convention    often consisting of a large hall as well as a number of smaller lecture rooms
Center        and related facilities including catering, parking, and storage.
Conical       As used in the Airport Height Overlay (AHO) District standards, a surface
Surfaces      extending outward and upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a
              slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
Conservation  The two portions of a conservation subdivision. The conservation area is the
and           portion of the land protected from development and the development area is the
Development   portion of the subdivision utilized for development purposes. Agricultural
Area          activities may take place in either or both portions.
              The division of a tract of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other
Conservation  divisions along with additional land area set aside as open space for
Subdivision   conservation and/or recreation purposes in accordance with Section
              6.2, Conservation Subdivision.
              The erection of any building, structure, on-site improvement, or any
              preparations (including land disturbing activities) for the same, regardless
Construction  whether the site is presently improved, unimproved or hereafter becomes
              unimproved by "demolition," destruction of the improvements located thereon by
              fire, windstorm or other casualty.
Construction  Technical diagrams, drawn to scale, depicting the placement and configuration of
Drawings      buildings, structures, site features, and infrastructure.
Construction- A building or structure in place on a temporary basis to aid in the completion
Related Use   of a construction project. Such uses can include mobile offices, storage
              containers, fencing, or equipment storage.
Containerized Trees or other vegetation delivered for planting or establishment in individual
Stock         or group containers.
Contiguous    See "Abutting."
Continuance   The adjournment or postponement of review or a decision on an application for
              development approval to a specified future date.
              A retirement community configured as a single unified campus that includes
Continuing    independent living dwellings, assisted living facilities, and skilled nursing
Care          facilities that are owned and operated by a private company that provides a
Retirement    continuum of care to residents of the community. It may include on-site dining,
Center        medical care, and recreation and social facilities in addition to guest lodging
              and employee housing.
Contract      A person who has entered into a contract with another party to purchase real
Purchaser     property, but who has not yet settled on the purchase.
Contractor    Offices for building, heating, plumbing, or electrical contractors, and related
Services/Yard storage facilities.
              A retail establishment which offers for sale, primarily, the following types of
Convenience   articles: bread, milk, cheese, canned and bottled foods and drinks, tobacco
Store (no     products, beer, wine, candy, papers and magazines, and general hardware
gasoline      articles. Fast food may also be offered for sale but only as a secondary
sales)        activity of a convenience store and subject to the standards of this Ordinance.
              If vehicular maintenance and service are provided, the establishment is not
              classified as a convenience store.
              A retail establishment which offers for sale, primarily, the following types of
Convenience   articles: bread, milk, cheese, canned and bottled foods and drinks, tobacco
Store (with   products, beer, wine, candy, papers and magazines, and general hardware
gasoline      articles. Gasoline and/or fast food may also be offered for sale but only as a
sales)        secondary activity of a convenience store and subject to the standards of this
              Ordinance. If vehicular maintenance and service are provided, the establishment
              is not classified as a convenience store.
Coping        A finishing or protective course of masonry or cap of metal located at the top
              of a brick, stone, or masonry wall.
              Any horizontal member, structural or nonstructural, of any building, projecting
Cornice       outward from the exterior walls at the roof line, including eaves and other roof
              overhang.
Corporate     The legal name that refers to the boundaries of a municipal corporation.
Limits
Correctional  Publicly or privately operated facilities housing persons awaiting trial or
Facility      persons serving a sentence after being found guilty of a criminal
              offense. Such uses may include cafeterias, housing for facility staff, outdoor
             storage and maintenance areas, recreational areas, agricultural facilities, and
              facilities for the production of goods or materials produced for sale.
County        Wake County, North Carolina.
Court-Ordered The division of land between two or more parties as ordered as part of a
Subdivision   settlement imposed by the judicial system.
Courtyard     An open, unoccupied space, other than a required yard, on the same lot as a
              building and bounded on two or more sides by a building on the same lot.
Covenant      A binding written agreement between two or more private parties regarding the
              use, occupancy, or configuration of development that runs with the land.
              A land use that serves as a shared workspace for employees of different
Co-Working    organizations. Co-working spaces consist of private, self-contained offices as
Space         well as shared or common office work spaces available for rent by more than one
              individual. Co-working spaces may include shared administrative staff, document
              production, presentation equipment, storage, kitchens, or private meeting rooms.
Crematorium
Critical Area See "Watershed Critical Area."
Cul-de-Sac    See "Street, Cul-de-Sac."
Street
Cultural      Establishments such as zoological gardens, conservatories, planetariums, or
Facility,     other similar uses of an historic, educational, or cultural interest, which are
Library, or   not operated for profit.
Museum
Cupola        A dome-like structure on top of a roof or dome, often used as a lookout or to
              admit light and air.
Curb          A constructed element used to stabilize paving, gutter, planting areas, or
              sidewalks.
Curvilinear   A portion of a building's exterior wall that is curved or arced relative to the
Wall Feature  primary wall plane.
 
DEFINITIONS
D
Dam         A barrier, whether constructed or natural that holds back water.
Dead-End    See "Street, Dead-End."
Street
Deck        A structure, without a roof, directly adjacent to a principal building which has
            an average elevation above finished grade.
Decorative  Glass located on an exterior wall of a building that may be transparent, semi-
Glass       transparent, or opaque.
Dedication  The act of giving, donating, or dedicating land or infrastructure improvements to
            a unit of government for their operation and maintenance.
Deed        A written private agreement that restricts the use, occupancy, or configuration
Restriction placed upon the title of real estate often by the developer.
Demolition  Complete or constructive removal of a building or portion of a building on any
            site.
Design      See “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.”
Flood
Designee    A person selected or designated to carry out a duty or role.
            A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment authority, who
Developer   undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the property to be
            developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to undertake development on
            that property.
            Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including any of the
            following:
            1.   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation, substantial
            repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
Development 2.   The excavation, grading, filling clearing or alteration of land.
            3.   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. 160D-802.
            4.   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the intensity of
            use of land.
            For the purposes of Section
            3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District:
            (a)   Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but
            not limited to, the construction, erection, structural alteration, enlargement,
            or rehabilitation of any buildings or other structures, including farm buildings,
            mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
           storage of equipment or materials, clearing of vegetation; and any use or change
            in use of any structures or land.
            (b)   Development shall also include any land disturbing activity on improved or
            unimproved real estate that changes the amount of impervious or partially
            impervious surfaces on a parcel, or that otherwise decreases the natural
            infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
            For the purposes of Section
            3.8.2, Flood Overlay (FHO) District, any activity defined as Development which
Development will necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit. This includes buildings,
Activity    structures, and non- structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
            bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
            stabilization measures.
Development A written agreement between the town and a developer or applicant that sets down
Agreement   the rights and responsibilities of each party as pertaining to a single
            development.
            An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made pursuant to G.S. 160D and UDO
            Article 2 that is written and that is required prior to commencing development or
            undertaking a specific activity, project, or development proposal. Development
Development approvals include, but are not limited to, zoning permits, site plan approvals,
Approval    special use permits, variances, and certificates of appropriateness. The term
            also includes all other regulatory approvals required_by regulations adopted
            pursuant to this G.S. 160D and any Town Ordinance including plat approvals,
            permits issued, development agreements entered into, and building permits issued.
Development A vehicular access point providing ingress or egress to an individual
Entry Point neighborhood or development.
Diameter at Measurement for determining the size of existing trees to be credited towards
Breast      landscaping requirements or for violations of this Ordinance. DBH is the
Height      measurement of the diameter of an existing tree trunk taken at a height of 4 1/
(DBH)       2 feet above the ground. Trees with multiple trunks should be treated as multiple
            trees and the DBH for each trunk added to aggregate diameter measurement.
Diffuse     Water flowing in a thin layer over the ground surface without, and at relatively
Flow        uniform velocities so as not to create an identifiable channel through erosion.
Digital
Flood       The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency
Insurance   Management Agency (FEMA), on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the
Rate Map    risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
(DFIRM)
            For the purposes of the FHO, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge,
            deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste
Disposal    into or on any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of
            the solid waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
            discharged into any waters, including groundwaters.
            Wireless telecommunications equipment that includes one or more antennas mounted
Distributed on a support structure (such as a utility pole, building, or other vertical
Antenna     projection) which is connected via cable or wirelessly to an equipment cabinet on
System      site that is joined via cable to the internet and/or other communication network.
(DAS) Node  Applications for the establishment of a DAS node are reviewed and decided in
            accordance with the procedures for establishment of a small wireless facility.
            As used in the riparian buffer standards, a man-made channel other than a
Ditch (or   modified natural stream constructed for drainage purposes that is typically dug
Canal)      through inter-stream divide areas. A ditch or canal may have flows that are
            perennial, intermittent, or ephemeral and may exhibit hydrological and biological
            characteristics similar to perennial or intermittent streams.
Dormer      A window that projects vertically from a sloping roof.
Window
Double
Frontage    See "Lot, Double Frontage."
Lot
Drive Aisle A vehicular accessway within a surface parking lot or a parking structure.
Drive       A facility designed to enable a person to transact business while remaining in a
Through     motor vehicle.
            The portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of a travel lane
Driveway    bounded on either side by an area that is not a part of the vehicle
            accommodation.
Driveway    A constructed device, whether raised or lowered from grade level, located within
Median      a driveway or drive aisle that is used to control traffic direction or limit
            turning movements.
Drought
Tolerant    See "Tree, Drought Tolerant."
Tree
Drug/       Inpatient facility which provides care for persons with drug and/or alcohol
Alcohol     dependency problems and which may include outpatient follow-up care to the
Treatment   facility's patients.
Facility
            A single detached dwelling on one lot that contains two dwelling units. The units
Duplex      may be located side by side in a horizontal configuration or stacked one above
Dwelling    the other in a vertical configuration, sharing common vertical walls or
            horizontal floors and ceilings.
            Any building structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part thereof, used
            and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and includes any
Dwelling    outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
            Dwelling, shall not include any manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational
            vehicle, if used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
Dwelling    One or more rooms arranged for the use of one or more individuals living together
Unit        as a single housekeeping unit with cooking, living, sanitary, and sleeping
            facilities.
 
DEFINITIONS
E
              The right to use or occupy the real property of another owner for a specifically
Easement      identified purpose. An easement is a recognized interest in real property, but
              legal title to the underlying land is retained by the owner granting the easement.
Eave          The projecting lower edges of a roof that overhangs the wall of a building.
Egress        An exit from a building or site.
Electric      An off-street parking space that is served by an electrical component assembly or
Vehicle       cluster of component assemblies (battery charging station) designed and intended
Charging      to transfer electric energy, by conductive or inductive means, from the electric
Station       grid or other off-board electrical source to a battery or other energy storage
              device within an electric vehicle.
Electrical or A industrial establishment operated by a contractor, supplier, or distributor
Plumbing      engaged in the fabrication and assembly of plumbing fixtures, electrical fixtures,
Fabrication   HVAC ducting and equipment, fireplaces, or similar household or commercial
              features for off-site installation.
Electronic    See
Message Board Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Elevated      A building without a basement that has its lowest elevated floor raised above
Building      ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
Elevation/    A document identifying the base flood elevation in feet above mean sea level of
Floodproofing the lowest habitable floor of a building located within a special flood hazard
Certificate   area.
              An application for the installation of new or replacement antennas and related
              wireless telecommunications equipment on an existing telecommunications tower. An
Eligible      eligible facilities request may include increasing the height and/or replacement
Facility      of an existing telecommunications tower but shall not include any activities that
Request       constitute a "substantial modification" as defined in this Ordinance and Section
              160D-931 of the North Carolina General Statutes. Eligible facility requests are
              reviewed and decided in accordance with the procedures for a minor collocation.
              A facility housing emergency medical service personnel and equipment intended for
              provision of out-of-hospital acute medical care, transport to definitive care, and
EMS Station   other medical transport to patients with illnesses and injuries which prevent the
              patient from transporting themselves. Such uses may also including living quarters
              for EMS personnel, emergency operations centers, storage, and vehicle maintenance
              facilities.
              The location of a building, structure, or portion of a building or structure in an
              open space, setback, yard, or other area typically required to remain free of
Encroachment  buildings or structures. In flood prone areas, an encroachment is the advance or
              infringement of uses, fill excavation, buildings, permanent structures or
              development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a
              floodplain.
Entablature   A horizontal, continuous lintel on a classical building supported by columns or a
              wall, comprising the architrave, frieze, and cornice.
Entrance,     See "Primary Entrance."
Primary
              A commercial establishment that offers, for rent, a variety of hand tools,
              electric tools, outdoor equipment, articles for parties such as tables, chairs,
Equipment and and tents. Incidental sales of related equipment may be permitted as an accessory
Tool Rental   use. Such uses include on-site repair and maintenance facilities for rental
              equipment owned by the establishment. Repair of items owned by others is a repair
              service use.
              For the purposes of the standards in Section
Equipment     4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, a non-habitable structure, such as
Cabinet       a box, enclosure, vault, shelter, or pedestal, typically located above ground,
              that contains radios, computers, or other equipment necessary for the transmission
              or reception of wireless telecommunication signals.
              For the purposes of the standards in Section
              4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, an area containing wireless
Equipment     telecommunications equipment serving antennas on a nearby telecommunications
Compound      tower, utility pole, building, or other vertical projection. An equipment compound
              is commonly fenced or surrounding by walls that limit access to members of the
              general public. Nothing shall limit an equipment compound from being located
              within a building, on the roof of a building, or underground.
Erosion       The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water, gravity, or any
              combination thereof.
Erosion       A device which controls the soil material within the land area under responsible
Control       control of the person conducting a land-disturbing activity.
Measure
Erosion       A permit associated with land-disturbing activity that approves certain actions
Control       designed to inhibit erosion or limit accumulation of sediment in streams or on
Permit        other lands outside the area of disturbance.
Established   See "Grade, Established."
Grade
              A commercial establishment and associated grounds engaged in the hosting and
              production of pre-planned events like weddings, corporate parties, or reunions.
Event Venue   Typical accessory uses include kitchens or meal preparation space, limited
              overnight accommodations, photography studios, facilities to accommodate live or
              recorded music, on- and off-site parking, and outdoor recreation facilities.
Evergreen     See "Tree, Evergreen."
Tree
Exemption     A use, site feature, or development condition that is exempted authorized to
              deviate from otherwise applicable requirements.
Existing      Means any building and/or structure for which the “start of construction”
Building and  commenced before January 1, 2020, the initial effective date of the floodplain
Existing      management regulations adopted by the community.
Structure
              Means development, other than that associated with agricultural or forest
              management activities that meets one of the following criteria:
              1.   It either is built or has established a vested right based on statutory or
              common law, for projects that do not require a state permit, as of the effective
              date of either local new development stormwater programs implemented under Rule
              15A NCAC 2B .0265 (Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Stormwater Management
              for New Development) or, for projects requiring a state permit, as of the
              applicable compliance date established in Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0271 (Jordan Water
              Supply Nutrient Strategy: Stormwater Management for New Development), Items (5)
              and (6); or
              2.   It occurs after the compliance date set out in Sub-Item (4) (d) of Rule .0265
              (Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Stormwater Management for New Development)
              but does not result in a net increase in built-upon area.
Existing      For the purposes of Section
Development   3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District:
              Those projects that are built or the projects that at a minimum have established a
              vested right under North Carolina zoning law as of the effective date of the Flood
              Protection Overlay District or such earlier time that an affected local
              government's management plans and ordinance shall specify, based on at least one
              of the following criteria:
              (a)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on a good
              faith reliance upon having received a valid approval from the Town of Zebulon to
              proceed with the project; or upon having an approved preliminary plat or planned
              development; or
              (b)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-
              108 and 160D-108.1; or
              (c)   Having an outstanding zoning compliance permit as authorized by G.S. §§
              153A-344.1 and 153A-344.1 (f)(3) and/or meeting the requirements for establishing
              a zoning vested right.
Existing      For the purposes of Section
Manufactured  3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: A manufactured home park or
Home Park or  subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
Manufactured  which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
Home          installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
Subdivision   grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of
              this part.
Existing Tree Trees or other woody vegetation that exist and are retained on a development site.
(s)
Expansion     An increase in the floor area of an existing structure or building, or the
              increase of area of a use.
Expansion to  For the purposes of Section
an Existing   3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: The preparation of the additional
Manufactured  sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
Home Park or  manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the
Subdivision   construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
              slabs).
              Any communication between a member of a decision-making body involved in a
Ex-Parte      development application and another person involved in a development application
Communication that is made without the presence or knowledge of the other members of the same
              decision-making body.
Expedited     A subdivision of three or fewer lots comprised of more than five acres in
Subdivision   accordance with Section 160D-802 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
              Includes the architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the
              exterior of a building or other structure, including the color, the kind, and
Exterior      texture of the building material; the size and scale of the building; and the type
Architectural and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant
Features      fixtures. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, "exterior architectural
              features" shall be construed to mean the style, material, size, and location of
              all such signs. Such "exterior features" shall include historic signs, color, and
              significant landscape, archaeological and natural features of the area.
Exterior      Illumination of a building, parking lot, or site feature.
Lighting
Extra         The land area located outside the corporate limits of a municipality, but still
Territorial   subject to the planning and zoning laws associated with Zebulon, North Carolina.
Jurisdiction
              A use involving on-site extraction of surface or subsurface mineral products or
              natural resources. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel
Extractive    operations, mining, hydraulic fracturing, and similar activities. Specifically
Industry      excluded from this use is grading and removal of dirt associated with an approved
              site plan or subdivision or excavations associated with, and for the improvement
              of, a bona fide agricultural use.
Eyebrow       A low dormer window with no sides located on the slope of a roof where the roofing
Window        material is carried over the top of the window without interruption.
 
DEFINITIONS
F
Facade        See "Building Facade."
              The exterior facade of a building where the primary or front entrance is
Facade, Front located. Typically the front facade faces the street from which the building
              derives its street address.
Facade, Rear  The exterior facade of a building that is opposite the front facade.
Facade, Side  The exterior facade of a building perpendicular to the front facade.
              A public or private use comprised of open areas and permanent and/or temporary
Fairgrounds   buildings where fairs, carnivals, circuses, or other exhibitions are held. Such
              uses may include other occasional or incidental activities such as expositions,
              farmer's markets, informal flea markets, and demonstrations.
False (or
Opaque)       An exterior building material provided to replace or approximate a window.
Windows
              One or more persons related by blood, adoption or marriage living and cooking
              together as a single housekeeping unit exclusive of household servants. The
Family        number of persons, but not exceeding two living and cooking together as a single
              housekeeping unit though not related by blood, adoption or marriage, shall be
              deemed to constitute a family.
              A home with support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board,
              personal care, and habilitation services in a family environment for not more
              than six resident handicapped persons. Handicapped person means a person with a
Family Care   temporary or permanent physical, emotional or mental disability including but
Home          not limited to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and
              sight impairments, emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments but not
              including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. §
              122C-3(11).
Family Health A transportable residential structure that is primarily assembled at a location
Care          other than its site of installation and provides an environment facilitating a
Structure     caregiver's provision of care for a mentally or physically impaired person.
              A principal use which includes the sale of horticulture or agriculture products,
Farmer's      including nursery stock, perennial, annuals, bulbs, mulch, compost, dried
Market        flowers, Christmas trees and greens, fresh produce, honey, cider, and similar
              agriculture products.
              A fascia is a board or other exterior material provided at the edge of a
Fascia        building where the roof meets the exterior wall. When gutters are provided, they
              are typically mounted to the fascia.
Fee           An amount charged in accordance with the regularly adopted fee schedule of the
              town.
Fee In-Lieu   Monetary compensation offered by a landowner or applicant as an alternative to
              provision of some other required site or development feature.
              A physical barrier or enclosure consisting of wood, stone, brick, block, wire,
Fence or Wall metal, or similar material used as a boundary or means of protection, retention,
              or confinement, but not including a hedge or vegetation.
Fenestration  The arrangement of windows and doors on a building's facade.
              A plan or drawing recorded in the office of the register of deeds that
Final Plat    identifies the metes and bounds as well as all applicable conditions applied to
              a lot or group of lots that have been subdivided.
Financial     See "Performance Guarantee."
Guarantee
              An establishment that provides retail banking services, mortgage lending, or
              similar financial services to individuals and businesses. Financial institutions
Financial     include those establishments engaged in the on-site circulation of cash money
Services      and check-cashing facilities, but shall not include bail bond brokers. Financial
Establishment services may also provide automated teller machines (ATM) services, located
              within a fully enclosed space or building, or along an exterior building wall
              intended to serve walk-up customers only. Financial services may include drive-
              through facilities.
Fine          A sum of money imposed on a violator as punishment for violation of law.
Finished Side The side of a fence configured for the best possible appearance that does not
of Fence      include structural supports or exterior materials with imperfections.
              A decorative or structural device consisting of a series of narrow vertical
Fins          projections or ribs along a building's facade that provide screening to windows
              or that conceal structural supports that provide rigidity to the walls or
              support the roof.
Fire Hydrant  A connection point to a public water supply system used by firefighters to
              access water as a part of fire suppression.
              A lane or designated area in a parking lot or on a street that is reserved for
Fire Lane     firefighting equipment or staging of people during a fire and is not intended
              for the parking of vehicles or storage.
Fire          A fire hydrant, water storage tank, or connection to a building's sprinkler
Protection    system, typically referred to as a standpipe, all used for the purposes of
System        providing water for fire suppression.
Fire/EMS/     A facility that serves as the base of operations for a fire company, police
Police        precinct, sheriff's office, or emergency medical technician operation. Such
Station       facilities may also include living quarters for personnel, equipment storage,
              and vehicular maintenance areas.
Flag          See
              Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Flag Lot      See "Lot, Flag."
Flagpole      A freestanding structure or structure attached to the wall or roof of a building
              that is used to display flags.
              A market held in an open area or structure where individual sellers offer goods
              for sale to the public. Such sellers may set up temporary stalls or tables for
              the sale of their products. Such sales may involve new and/or used items and may
Flea Market   include the sale of fruits, vegetables, and other edible items. A farmer's
              market, where food items predominate, is different than a flea market. This also
              differs from a garage sale or yard sale that is conducted on a residentially
              developed lot by members of a household, or civic groups selling primarily
              donated items.
              Buildings designed to accommodate a combination of offices (e.g. service
              establishments and contractor's offices), wholesale establishments, warehousing/
              distribution, industrial services, and light manufacturing, with the exact
Flex Space    proportions of each use being subject to user needs over time. Such uses are
              treated as principal uses and subject to the standards and limitations
              applicable to such uses—e.g., parking, and are included in the total gross floor
              area if located on the same lot.
              Any man-made feature, structure, or system that has the effect of interfering
Flood         with or redirecting the natural down-gradient flow of storm or flood water.
Barriers      Flood Barriers include dams and levees, artificial channels and concrete banks
              or enclosures, culverts, and curb and gutter drainage systems.
Flood Hazard  An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management
Boundary Map  Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
(FHBM)        defined as Zone A.
Flood         The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood Insurance Program.
Insurance
Flood         An official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency
Insurance     has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones
Rate Map      applicable to the community.
(FIRM)
Flood         The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
Insurance     report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary floodway map and
Study (FIS)   the water surface elevation of the base flood.
              A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
              dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters or the unusual and rapid
              accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood or      For the purposes of Section
Flooding      3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: A general and temporary condition of
              partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
              (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal water; and
              (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
              source.
              (a)   Flood Protection Areas are divided into two categories:
              1.   Flood Protection Zone 1; and
              2.   Flood Protection Zone 2, as described below.
              (b)   1.   Flood Protection Zone 1
              Zone 1 is the full extent of the FEMA 100-year floodplain as determined by the
              U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, North Carolina Division of Water Quality, or USGS
              7.5-minute topography maps and shall remain undisturbed. Flood Protection Zone 1
              is the most dynamic and hazardous zone, carrying debris and other projectiles
              during times of flooding. No new development is permitted within Flood
              Protection Zone 1 except for stream bank or shoreline restoration or
              stabilization, water dependent structures, and public or private projects such
              as road crossings and installations, utility crossings and installations, and
              greenways, where no practical alternatives exist. Flood Protection Zone 1 shall
              remain undisturbed in its entirety except for exempted activities described
              herein.
Flood         2.   Flood Protection Zone 2
Protection    Zone 2 shall be a minimum of 50 feet landward of all sides of perennial and
Areas         intermittent surface waters, streams, lakes, and ponds as determined by the U.S.
              Army Corps of Engineers, North Carolina Division of Water Quality, or USGS 7.5-
              minute topography maps and shall remain undisturbed. A surface water shall be
              determined present if the feature is approximately shown on either the most
              recent version of the soil survey map prepared by the Natural Resources
              Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) or
              the most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle
              topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS). An
              exception to this requirement may be allowed when surface waters are not present
              in accordance with the provisions of 15A NCAC 2B .0233(3)(a) or similar site-
              specific determination made using division-approved methodology. Disturbance of
              existing vegetation shall be minimized to the greatest extent possible except
              for the installation of artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization, water
              dependent structures and public or private projects such as utility service
              lines, road crossings or greenways where no practical alternatives exists. No
              new impervious surface or regular maintenance (e.g., mowing) of vegetation can
              occur in Zone 2.
Flood Zone    A geographical area on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map
              that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
Floodplain    Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source in
              response to precipitation events.
Floodplain    The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
Administrator regulations.
Floodplain    A permit that is required, in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance,
Development   prior to the commencement of any development activity in a floodplain.
Permit
              Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
Floodproofing adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
              or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities, structures, and
              their contents.
              Any building product (material, component or system) capable of withstanding
              direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without
              sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any material
              that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water, including
Flood-        normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-resistant. Pressure-treated
Resistant     lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable flooring materials.
Material      Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation from below and materials
              that are impervious, but dimensionally unstable are not acceptable. Materials
              that absorb or retain water excessively after submergence are not flood-
              resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
              Materials Requirements, and available from FEMA. Class 4 and 5 materials,
              referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.
              The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
Floodway      must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
              increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
              An engineering analysis of the impact that a proposed encroachment into a
Floodway      floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to have on the floodway boundaries
Encroachment  and flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The
Analysis      evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North Carolina licensed engineer
              using standard engineering methods and models.
              For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: The top surface of an enclosed area
Floor         in a building (including basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab
              construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does
              not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
              A unit of measure of the intensity of light falling on a surface. It is often
              defined as the amount of illumination the inside surface of a one-foot-radius
Footcandle    sphere would be receiving if there were a uniform point source of one candela in
              the exact center of the sphere. One footcandle is equal to one lumen per square
              foot.
Footprint     See "Building Footprint."
Forestry      An activity related to plating, maintaining, or removing trees as part of a
Activity      forestry management plan or bona fide farming activity.
              A building and related facilities owned and operated by a corporation,
Fraternal     association, or group of individuals established for fraternal, social,
Club or Lodge educational, recreational, or cultural enrichment of its members and primarily
              not for profit, and whose members meet certain prescribed qualifications for
              membership and pay dues.
              The additional amount of height added to the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) to
Freeboard     account for uncertainties in the determination of flood elevations. The
              freeboard requirement plus the Base Flood Elevation equals the Regulatory Flood
              Protection Elevation.
Front Facade  See "Facade, Front."
Frontage      See "Street, Frontage."
Street
Fuel Oil/     An establishment that stores and distributes fuel oil or bottled gases such as
Bottled Gas   propane, oxygen, or liquid petroleum in bulk quantities for wholesale sale or
Distributor   distribution to retail outlets or end consumers at the point of use. A use
              engaged in sale of automobile fuel is a retail use.
              A facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
Functionally  carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
Dependent     necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding,
Facility      ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not include long-
              term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
Funeral-      A commercial establishment engaged in the provision of services related to
Related       funeral services for humans or pets. Such uses may provide embalming, cremation,
Services      and memorial services. Chapels and storage areas are accessory uses. Uses for
              the internment of human or animal remains are park and open space uses.
 
DEFINITIONS
G
Gable                             A triangular area of an exterior wall formed
                                  by two sloping roofs.
                                  A balcony or platform on an upper floor that
Gallery                           projects from the primary wall plane of the
                                  building that is open underneath.
                                  A commercial establishment providing patrons
                                  with the opportunity to compete against
Games of Skill                    others for cash or other prizes in games
                                  where the outcome is based on skill, not
                                  chance.
                                  A sale conducted by an occupant of a
                                  residence alone or in cooperation with
                                  neighbors conducted for the purpose of
                                  selling surplus household items for profit or
Garage or Yard Sale               for charitable purposes. Such sales are
                                  usually conducted from a garage associated
                                  with the residence or from the yard of the
                                  residence. Garage or yard sales may be
                                  distinguished from flea markets by the number
                                  of days of sale.
                                  An industrial use engaged in the conversion
                                  of the heat or gaseous emissions from the
Gas Energy Conversion             decomposition of organic matter into fuel,
                                  chemicals, and/or electricity for off-site
                                  use.
                                  A portion of a street corridor and the lots
                                  that front it as designated in the Town's
Gateway Corridor                  adopted policy guidance where additional
                                  design or development standards are applied.
                                  Typically gateway corridor areas are
                                  designated as overlay zoning districts.
                                  A formal or informal area intended for or
Gathering Area (or Place)         used by the general public to gather or
                                  congregate together for interaction or
                                  recreation.
                                  The General Assembly for the State of North
General Assembly                  Carolina. Also referred to as the
                                  Legislature.
                                  Establishments engaged in the repair or
                                  servicing of agriculture, industrial,
                                  business, or consumer machinery, equipment,
                                  products, or by-products, including machine
                                  shops; tool repair; electric motor repair;
                                  repair of scientific or professional
General Industrial Services       instruments; laundry, dry-cleaning, and
                                  carpet cleaning plants; film processing; and
                                  general industrial service uses. Firms that
                                  provide these services do so by mainly
                                  providing centralized services for separate
                                  retail outlets. Few customers, especially the
                                  general public, come to the site.
                                  A general statute is a written law passed the
General Statutes                  General Assembly that sets forth general
                                  propositions of law that courts apply to
                                  specific situations.
                                  A designation or classification applied to
                                  certain lots or tracts as shown on the
                                  Official Zoning Map. General zoning districts
                                  specify the broad range of allowable land use
                                  types permitted on lots or tracts within the
General Zoning District           particular district. The general zoning
                                  district standards also specify the
                                  applicable dimensional requirements for lots
                                  and buildings as well as any unique
                                  provisions that apply to solely lands in the
                                  particular district.
                                  The effect produced within the visual field
                                  by a high intensity or insufficiently
                                  shielded light source that is significantly
Glare                             brighter than the level to which the eyes are
                                  adapted, causing annoyance, discomfort, or
                                  loss of visual performance or visibility of
                                  objects.
Glazing                           The portion of an exterior building surface
                                  occupied by glass or windows.
                                  A tract of land laid out with at least nine
                                  holes for playing the game of golf and
                                  improved with tees, greens, fairways, and
                                  hazards. A golf course, may include a
Golf Course                       clubhouse (with or without eating
                                  facilities), shelters, a driving range,
                                  putting green, maintenance facilities, an
                                  irrigation system, and outdoor storage of
                                  materials and equipment.
                                  A commercial establishment used by persons
                                  practicing their golf swing or putting
                                  capability. A driving range is an area on
Golf Driving Range                which golf players do not walk, but onto
                                  which they drive golf balls from a common
                                  driving tee. A driving range may also include
                                  a putting green.
                                  Legally adequate or substantial grounds or
Good Cause                        reason to take a certain action based upon
                                  the circumstances of each individual case.
Government Maintenance, Storage,  A facility housing government shops,
Distribution                      maintenance and repair centers, equipment,
                                  and outdoor storage yards.
                                  An office of a governmental agency that
                                  provides administrative and/or direct
Government Office                 services to the public, such as, but not
                                  limited to, employment offices, public
                                  assistance offices, or motor vehicle
                                  licensing and registration services.
                                  The ground elevation at a specific point on a
Grade, Established                site after completion of development activity
                                  or prior to development activity on a vacant
                                  site.
                                  Excavating, filling (including hydraulic
Grading                           fill) or stockpiling of earth material, or
                                  any combination thereof, including the land
                                  in its excavated or filled condition.
                                  Metal, wood, or plastic configured to cover
Grate                             or obscure an opening in a wall, roof, or the
                                  ground.
                                  The roof of a building that is partially or
                                  completely covered with vegetation and a
Green Roof                        growing medium, planted over a waterproofing
                                  membrane. It may also include additional
                                  layers such as a root barrier and drainage
                                  and irrigation systems.
Green Wall                        See "Wall, Green."
                                  Public open space under the control and
                                  maintenance of the Town which has been
Greenway                          designated on an officially adopted greenway
                                  or open space plan and developed in
                                  accordance with the adopted greenway or open
                                  space plan.
                                  A strip or corridor of undeveloped land set
                                  aside for recreational use or environmental
                                  protection that includes an improved trail or
                                  walking/bicycle facility. For the purposes of
Greenway/Hiking Trails            the riparian buffer standards, pedestrian
                                  trails constructed of pervious or impervious
                                  surfaces and related structures including but
                                  not limited to boardwalks, steps, rails, and
                                  signage, and that generally run parallel to
                                  the shoreline.
                                  An establishment engaged in retail and/or
Grocery Store                     wholesale sale of food, foodstuffs, sundries,
                                  or other common household items to members of
                                  the public.
Gross Floor Area                  See Section
                                  9.3.7, Gross Floor Area (GFA).
                                  Low growing plants such as grasses, ivy,
                                  creeping bushes and similar decorative
Ground Cover                      plantings as well as mulch, pinestraw, or
                                  other similar materials used to cover the
                                  ground within required landscaping areas.
                                  Utility or other equipment of a mechanical
Ground-Based Mechanical Equipment nature that is mounted on or below grade on
                                  the site it serves.
                                  A residential facility (such as an orphanage,
                                  shelter, crisis center) with support and
                                  supervisory personnel that provides temporary
Group Home                        room and board, housekeeping, personal care,
                                  or rehabilitation services for those needing
                                  emergency or post-incarceration services (but
                                  not including those with mental illness who
                                  are dangerous to themselves or others).
                                  A facility where members or nonmembers use
                                  equipment or space for the purpose of
                                  physical exercise. Such uses may include
Gymnasium/Fitness Center          indoor swimming pools, athletic courts,
                                  tracks, or other similar features. Retail
                                  sales of hand-held fitness equipment,
                                  clothing, or health foods may occur as an
                                  accessory use.
 
DEFINITIONS
H
Habitable   A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating or cooking, or used as a
Space       home occupation.
Hair,       A commercial establishment engaged in the provision of services pertaining to
Nails, and  hair care, hair styling, hair removal, nail care, makeup, facial treatments,
Skin-       tanning, massage therapy, and similar cosmetic treatments. Such uses may or
Related     may not include other spa or salon facilities such as showers, baths, and the
Services    incidental sales of food for on-site consumption and personal skin or hair
            care products.
Half Street See "Street, Half."
            A licensed home for juveniles or adult persons on release from more
Halfway     restrictive custodial confinement or initially placed in lieu of such more
House       restrictive custodial confinement, wherein supervision, rehabilitation, and
            counseling is provided to assist residents back into society, enabling them to
            live independently.
Hardship    Special or specified circumstances that place an unreasonable or
            disproportionate burden on one applicant or landowner over another.
Hazardous   For the purposes of the FHO, a facility for the collection, storage,
Waste       processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
Facility
Heavy       Premises on which new or used heavy equipment (tractors, loaders, excavators,
Equipment,  backhoes, cranes, lifts, rollers and similar devices) are displayed for sale,
Sales,      lease, or rental. On-site repair and service to heavy equipment is also
Rental, and provided.
Repair
            An area, either on ground level or elevated on a structure, licensed or
Helicopter  approved for the landing and takeoff of helicopters and which may include
Landing Pad auxiliary facilities such as parking, waiting room, fueling, and maintenance
            equipment.
            An area of land, water, or structural surface designed for discharge or pick-
Helistop    up of passengers or cargo from or by helicopters, but excluding field service
            or maintenance.
High        One or more light emitting diodes that are optimized for providing an extra-
Intensity   bright highly visible light.
LED
High        A lamp of lightbulb that uses sodium under pressure to produce a broad
Pressure    spectrum of visible light for the purposes of providing exterior illumination.
Sodium Lamp
Highest     For the purposes of Section
Adjacent    3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: The highest natural elevation of
Grade       the around surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the
            structure.
            For the purposes of Section
            3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay ( FHO) District:
            Any structure that is:
            (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
            listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
            determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
            individual listing on the National Register;
Historic    (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as
Structure   contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
            or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
            registered historic district;
            (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places;
            (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
            communities with historic preservation programs; that have been certified by
            an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or
            directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
Home        Any activity carried out for gain by a resident and conducted in the
Occupation  resident's dwelling unit or accessory structures.
Home Office The use of a portion of a principal residence for conducting office or
            commercial-related activity.
            An organization of homeowners or property owners of lots or land in a
Homeowners' particular subdivision, condominium, or planned development. The owners'
Association association is responsible for maintaining and enhancing the shared private
            infrastructure (e.g., stormwater, streets, and sidewalks) and common elements
            such as recreation areas.
            As used in Section
Horizon     6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis: Unless otherwise specified or approved
Year        by the Planning Director, the Horizon Year shall be the build out year plus
            one year into the future from the year during which a traffic impact study is
            being prepared.
Horizontal  Projections, recesses, ribs, fins, or building wings distributed evenly across
Facade      the facade of a building.
Modulation
            An institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary, and emergency
            services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and injured
            persons, that is licensed by state law to provide facilities and services in
Hospital    surgery, obstetrics, or general medical practice. Such institutions may
            include in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and
            related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training
            facilities, central services facilities, and staff offices that are an
            integral part of the facilities.
            A building or group of buildings in which sleeping accommodations are offered
            to the public and intended primarily for rental for temporary occupancy by
            persons on an overnight basis. Hotels or motels may including an associated
Hotel or    eating establishment, conference facilities, and on-site recreational
Motel       amenities. Hotels or motels regularly offering extended duration stay
            facilities to patrons are extended stay facilities. Hotel, motel, resorts,
            lodges, and similar overnight lodging uses are to be considered synonymous
            uses.
Human-      Features of a building or built environment that are sized and configured in
Scaled      accordance with the typical human frame. Human-scale details and features are
Development most often configured for observation and recognition by people who are
            walking.
 
DEFINITIONS
I
                             A manned or unmanned facility selling packaged ice
Ice House                    manufactured off-site to members of the public at
                             retail or wholesale.
                             For the purposes of Section
                             3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Any
                             land that is covered by impervious or partially
                             impervious cover including buildings, pavement,
                             gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g., tennis
Impervious Coverage          courts and the like). (Note: Wooden slatted decks
                             and the water area of a swimming pool are
                             considered pervious.) Measurements of Impervious
                             Coverage shall be based upon net project area
                             excluding land within existing street rights-of-
                             way.
                             Any material that reduces and prevents absorption
Impervious Surface           of stormwater runoff into previously undeveloped
                             land.
                             A private vehicle that is being stored in a
Impounded Vehicle            controlled location pending action by the
                             vehicle's owner.
                             The construction of buildings and the
                             establishment of basic services and amenities
                             associated with development, including, but not
                             limited to streets and sidewalks, parking areas,
Improvement                  water and sewer systems, drainage system, property
                             markers and monuments, recreation facilities
                             (i.e., lakes, swimming pools, tennis courts, golf
                             courses, riding stables, club houses, cabanas,
                             marinas, docks and the like) and other similar
                             construction or establishment.
Indoor Atrium                An interior court enclosed by building walls with
                             or without a roof.
                             A commercial establishment located entirely
                             indoors that provides recreational, amusement, and
                             entertainment opportunities for patrons, including
Indoor Commercial Recreation activities such as billiards, bingo, bowling,
                             video games, escape rooms, fortune tellers,
                             skating rinks, laser tag, trampolines, and
                             climbing walls.
                             The process of developing vacant or under-used
Infill                       parcels within existing developed areas that are
                             already largely developed.
Ingress                      Access or entry to a building or site.
                             Monetary compensation offered by a landowner or
In-Lieu Fee                  applicant as an alternative to provision of some
                             other required site or development feature.
Internally Illuminated       An awning, sign, or canopy with an internal source
                             of illumination.
International Building Code  The model building code developed by the
                             International Building Code Council.
                             A determination, made in writing, by the Planning
                             Director regarding the proper application of
Interpretation               provisions in the UDO, the boundaries on the
                             Official Zoning Map, a prior-approved condition of
                             approval, or any other planning document.
Interstate                   See "Street, Interstate."
                             An individual or business offering goods or
                             services for sale at retail to members of the
Itinerant Merchant Sales     general public either in their homes, their place
                             of business, or from a vehicle on a lot with an
                             established use or a vacant lot.
 
 
DEFINITIONS
J
Junkyard               See "Salvage or Junkyard."
                       The official power to make legal decisions and
Jurisdiction           judgements. The term can also be used to describe the
                       geographic boundaries of a municipal corporation or the
                       extent over which a particular agency has control.
                       A stream or other water body that meets the definition
                       of "waters of the United States" or "waters of the
Jurisdictional Stream  state," and is thus subject to the jurisdiction of the
                       US Army Corps of Engineers or the NC Department of
                       Environmental Quality.
                       Land having the vegetative, soil, and hydrologic
                       characteristics to be regulated under Sections 401 and
Jurisdictional Wetland 404 of the Clean Water Act as defined by the U.S. Army
                       Corps of Engineers and the North Carolina Division of
                       Water Quality.
Just Cause             Legitimate cause; legal or lawful ground for action.
 
 
DEFINITIONS
K
                       A facility where dogs, cats, or other domestic animals
Kennel, Indoor/Outdoor over six months of age are kept, raised, sold, boarded,
                       bred, shown, treated, or groomed. The facility may be
                       indoors, outdoors, or both.
 
DEFINITIONS
L
Laboratory  An institutional use type engaged in the analysis, testing, identification, or
            research of chemicals, compounds, tissue, animals, or equipment.
            A legal agreement in which a property owner transfers the title to a property to
Land Trust  a trustee. The property owner is typically the beneficiary and directs the
            trustee in all matters relating to the management of the property, as outlined in
            the trust agreement or deed.
Land-       Any use of the land by any person in residential, industrial, education,
Disturbing  institutional, or commercial development, highway and road construction and
Activity    maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover or topography and that
            may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
            A facility for the disposal of solid waste other than compost on land in a
Landfill    sanitary manner in accordance with Chapter 130A, Article 9, of the North Carolina
            General Statutes.
            As applied to the standards related to vested rights, an owner of a legal or
Landowner   equitable interest in real property, including the heirs, devisees, successors,
            assigns, and personal representative of the owner.
Landscape   A geotextile material used to control weeds by inhibiting their exposure to
Fabric      sunlight.
Landscape   The portion of a parking lot intended for landscaping material and pervious
Island      surfaces.
Landscape   Linear landscape islands located between two parallel rows of off-street parking
Strip       spaces.
            The improvement of a lot, parcel or tract of land with grass, shrubs, and trees.
Landscaping Landscaping may include pedestrian walks, flower beds, ornamental objects such as
            fountains, statuary, and objects designed and arranged to produce an
            aesthetically pleasing effect.
Large       A retail establishment consisting of a single or multiple tenants in one or more
Format      buildings totaling 70,000 square feet or more in area with 70 percent or more of
Retail      the total floor area occupied by retail sales activities.
Laundry or  A commercial establishment engaged in the cleaning fabrics, textiles, wearing
Cleaning    apparel, or articles of any sort by immersion and agitation, or by immersions
Service     only, in water or volatile solvents. Such uses may provide cleaning and
            laundering services on-site or in off-site locations.
            An official determination issued by FEMA that amends or revises an effective
            Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study. Letters of Map Change include:
            Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an effective
            National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on technical data showing
            that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, but is
            actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation. A LOMA amends the
            current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and establishes that a specific
            property, portion of a property, or structure is not located in a special flood
            hazard area.
            Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data that may show
Letter of   changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard area boundaries
Map Change  and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
(LOMC)      Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination that a structure
            or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is, therefore, no
            longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to qualify for this
            determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in accordance with
            the community's floodplain management regulations.
            Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
            whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such
            projects with respect to delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does
            not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study; upon
            submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map
            Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.
            A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
Levee       accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
            flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
            As used in Section
            6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, a quantitative and qualitative measure of
            how well traffic flows on a given street or highway. Level of Service relates to
            such factors as highway width, number of lanes, percentage of trucks, total
            traffic volume, turning movements, lateral clearances, grades, sight distance,
            capacity in relation to volume, travel speed and other factors which affect the
            quality of flow. Level of Service is typically summarized by letter grades
            described as follows:
            (a)   Level "a" is a condition with low traffic volumes, high speeds and free-
Level of    flow conditions.
Service     (b)   Level "b" is a condition with light traffic volumes, minor speed
(LOS)       restrictions and stable flow.
            (c)   Level "c" is a condition with moderate traffic volumes, where speed and
            maneuvering are restricted to a limited degree by the amount of traffic.
            (d)   Level "d" is a condition with heavy traffic operating at tolerable speeds,
            although temporary slowdowns in flow may occur.
            (e)   Level "e" is a condition of very heavy flow and relatively low speeds.
            Under Level "e," the traffic is unstable and short stoppage may occur.
            (f)   Level "f" is a condition of extremely heavy flow, with frequent stoppage
            and very slow speeds. It is an unstable traffic condition under which traffic
            often comes to a complete halt.
Library     A public facility for the use, but not sale, of literary, historical, scientific,
            musical, artistic, or other reference materials.
            As used in Section
            6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, a quantitative and qualitative measure of
            how well traffic flows on a given street or highway. Level of Service relates to
            such factors as highway width, number of lanes, percentage of trucks, total
            traffic volume, turning movements, lateral clearances, grades, sight distance,
            capacity in relation to volume, travel speed and other factors which affect the
            quality of flow. Level of Service is typically summarized by letter grades
            described as follows:
            (a)   Level "a" is a condition with low traffic volumes, high speeds and free-
Level of    flow conditions.
Service     (b)   Level "b" is a condition with light traffic volumes, minor speed
(LOS)       restrictions and stable flow.
            (c)   Level "c" is a condition with moderate traffic volumes, where speed and
            maneuvering are restricted to a limited degree by the amount of traffic.
            (d)   Level "d" is a condition with heavy traffic operating at tolerable speeds,
            although temporary slowdowns in flow may occur.
            (e)   Level "e" is a condition of very heavy flow and relatively low speeds.
            Under Level "e," the traffic is unstable and short stoppage may occur.
            (f)   Level "f" is a condition of extremely heavy flow, with frequent stoppage
            and very slow speeds. It is an unstable traffic condition under which traffic
            often comes to a complete halt.
Light       Unwanted light that shines from one lot to another.
Trespass
Lighting    A graphic deposition of proposed exterior lighting fixture locations, height,
Plan        anticipated luminance, and cones of illumination.
Live/Work   A structure or portion of a structure combining a dwelling unit with an
Dwelling    integrated nonresidential work space typically used by one or more of the
            residents. The nonresidential work space is found on the building's ground floor.
Loading     Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled
Space       to delivery vehicles, and not considered as part of the minimum required off-
(Facility)  street surface parking.
Local       See "Street, Local."
Street
            A parcel of land not divided by streets that is or will be occupied by a building
Lot         and its accessory building(s) or an open air use of land, together with all
            required yard and other required open spaces, with all forms of required access
            and necessary utilities.
Lot Depth   See Section
            9.3.3.A.2, Lot Depth.
            For the purposes of the subdivision regulations, the distance for which the front
Lot         boundary line of a lot and the street line are coincident. In the case of corner
Frontage    lots, this shall be the street boundary line having the shortest distance
            coincident with a street line.
Lot of      A lot that has been recorded in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds
Record      and which was in conformance with the development regulations in effect at the
(Existing   time of recording.
Lot)
Lot Width   See Section
            9.3.3.A.3, Lot Width.
Lot, Corner See Section
            9.3.3.C.1, Corner Lot.
Lot, Double A lot with frontage on streets located at the front and rear of the lot.
Frontage
            An irregularly shaped lot where the buildable portion of the lot is connected to
Lot, Flag   its street frontage by an arm. Further, in cases where a minimum lot width is
            prescribed, the arm is less than the presumptive minimum required lot width.
Lot,        A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel streets.
Through
            For the purposes of the subdivision regulations, a parcel, piece, portion or
            tract of land separated from other parcels, pieces, portions and tracts of land
Lots        by description on a subdivision plat or any plat recorded or to be recorded in
            the office of the Register of Deeds or any description by metes and bounds or
            other means.
Louvers     A set of angled slats or flat strips fixed or hung at regular intervals in a
            door, shutter, or screen to allow air or light to pass through.
Lowest      The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or patio slab immediately next to the
Adjacent    building, or deck support, after completion of the building.
Grade
            For the purposes of Section
            3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District:
            The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
            or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
            access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement area is not
            considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure constructed of
Lowest      flood resistant materials is designed to automatically allow for entry or exit of
Floor       flood water in A Zones. The definition of Lowest Floor includes:
            (a)   The basement (if one exists);
            (b)   The top of the lowest floor in A Zones;
            (c)   The bottom of or lowest structural member in V Zones;
            (d)   The elevated floor of a building (not the ground floor, provided the ground
            floor is only used for parking, limited storage, or building access and meets
            other ordinance criteria).
Lumen       A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light emitted by a light source.
Luminous    Tubing, whether flexible or rigid, mounted to a building wall or other building
Tube        feature for the purposes of providing illumination, security, attracting
Lighting    attention, or displaying a message.
 
DEFINITIONS
M
                A significant deviation in an application, proposed development, or portion
Major Change    of a development that impacts the operation, appearance, function, value, or
                compatibility of proposed development with its surroundings.
                A variance from the minimum statewide watershed protection rules that results
                in the relaxation by a factor of greater than 10 percent of any of the
Major Variance  management requirements. Major variances shall be approved by the North
(Watershed)     Carolina Environmental Management Commission after initial review and
                recommendation from the Town of Zebulon. The Stormwater Administrator shall
                notify in writing each local government having jurisdiction in the watershed
                and the entity using the water supply for consumption.
                A collaborative workspace that includes shared tools, workspaces, technology,
                and knowledge in order to assist participants working alone or with
Makerspace      collaborators to create and produce ideas, products, and services.
                Makerspaces can be formed for the purpose of instruction, creation of
                material for sale, or a combination of the two.
                A factory-built structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is
                built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
                without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
                includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
                contained therein. This includes any structure with respect to which the
                manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of
Manufactured    the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and complies
Dwelling or     with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing
Manufactured    Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. § 5401 et seq.), as
Home            amended. This does not include travel trailers or recreation vehicles.
                For the purposes of Section
                3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: A structure, transportable in one
                or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
                used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
                utilities. The term Manufactured Home does not include a recreational
                vehicle.
                A commercial use where land is divided into individual leaseholds but not
Manufactured    individual lots owned in fee simple that are intended for occupation by
Dwelling Park   individual manufactured homes. Manufactured home parks may include shared or
or Manufactured individual accessways, recreation facilities, and other shared accessory uses
Home Park or    like laundries, storage, or refuse collection areas.
Subdivision     For the purposes of Section
                3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
                land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
                Uses that tend to require large amounts of bulk or unrefined materials which
                are typically processed and stored outdoors on the site. These uses require a
                significant amount of energy for the processing of raw materials, and are
                likely to generate significant noise, vibration, dust, glare, heat, odor,
                smoke, truck traffic, in the immediate vicinity of the use. Heavy
                manufacturing uses include, but are not limited to: manufacture or assembly
                of machinery, equipment, instruments, vehicles, appliances, communications
                equipment, computer or electronic equipment, precision items and other
                electrical items; the processing of food and related products; lumber mills,
                pulp and paper mills, and the manufacture of other wood products; and
Manufacturing,  electric power generation plants.
Heavy           Uses that tend to require large amounts of bulk or unrefined materials which
                are typically processed and stored outdoors on the site. These uses require a
                significant amount of energy for the processing of raw materials, and are
                likely to generate significant noise, vibration, dust, glare, heat, odor,
                smoke, truck traffic, in the immediate vicinity of the use. Heavy
                manufacturing uses include, but are not limited to: manufacture or assembly
                of machinery, equipment, instruments, vehicles, appliances, communications
                equipment, computer or electronic equipment, precision items and other
                electrical items; the processing of food and related products; lumber mills,
                pulp and paper mills, and the manufacture of other wood products; and
                electric power generation plants.
                Uses that involve indoor processing or assembly of finished or partially
                finished goods and do not require large stockpiles of raw material.
                Processing and storage activities take place solely within enclosed
                buildings, which helps limit (but does not completely prevent) the creation
                of noise, vibration, dust, glare, heat, odor, and smoke. Examples include,
                but are not limited to: production or repair of small machines or electronic
Manufacturing,  parts and equipment; woodworking and cabinet building; publishing and
Light           lithography; computer design and development; research, development, testing
                facilities and laboratories; apparel production; sign making; assembly of
                pre-fabricated parts, manufacture of electric, electronic, or optical
                instruments or devices; manufacture and assembly of artificial limbs,
                dentures, hearing aids, and surgical instruments; manufacture, processing,
                and packing of food products, cosmetics, and manufacturing of components,
                jewelry, clothing, trimming decorations, and any similar item.
Map Amendment   See "Zoning Map Amendment."
                For the purposes of the FHO, the location of the official flood hazard data
                to be applied for floodplain management. It is a central location in which
                flood data is stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that
                the application of digital flood hazard data products have the same authority
Map Repository  as hard copy products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program
                websites house current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood
                hazard data the NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map
                repository, and for historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://
                FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD) is the map repository.
                For the purposes of the FHO, the building value, not including the land value
                and that of any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market
Market Value    value may be established by independent certified appraisal, replacement cost
                depreciated for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash
                Value), or adjusted tax assessed values.
                A conceptual plan associated with an application to establish a planned
Master Plan     development district that sets out the general location, type, and
                configuration of proposed development within the district.
                A change in the meaning or language of a legal document, such as a contract,
Material Change agreement, or approval that is made by one party to the document without the
                consent of the other after it has been signed or completed.
                The continuation of one or more exterior building materials on one building
Material Return facade beyond an inside or outside building corner to a logical termination
                point on a different wall plane.
Mature Tree     A tree that has reached more than one-third of its expected maximum size.
                No feasible or practical alternative exists, as determined by the town, and
Maximum Extent  all possible efforts to comply with the standards or regulation to minimize
Practicable     potential harmful or adverse impacts have been undertaken by an applicant.
                Economic considerations may be taken into account but shall not be the
                overriding factor determining "maximum extent practicable."
Mechanical      Equipment and fixtures used for HVAC, fabrication, assembly, or production
Equipment       purposes.
                An industrial establishment engaged in the production, assembly, and
Metal           configuration of metal products through the use of mechanical presses, forms,
Fabrication     welding, grinding, and other mechanical processes that form, join, or alter
                the shape of metal but that do not include the creation or production of
                metal.
                An establishment engaged in the production and packaging of malt beverages,
                wine or spirits for distribution, retail, or wholesale both on and off-
                premise. A microbrewery is a facility that produces less than 15,000 barrels
Microbrewery,   of beer per year and sells the majority of the beer it produces for off-site
Microwinery, or resale and consumption. A microwinery produces less than 100,000 gallons of
Microdistillery wine per year. A microdistillery produces less than 15,000 gallons of
                alcoholic spirits per year. Accessory uses may include a taproom, seating
                areas, ancillary sales of related merchandise, event space, and warehouse
                space for stored product.
Micro-Wireless  A wireless telecommunications facility that is no larger in dimension than 24
Facility        inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height and that may
                have up to one exterior antenna, no longer than 11 inches.
                An insignificant deviation in an application, proposed development, or
Minor Change    portion of a development that does not impact the operation, appearance,
                function, value, or compatibility of proposed development.
Minor Variance  A variance from the minimum statewide watershed protection rules that results
(Watershed)     in a relaxation by a factor of up to 10 percent of any management
                requirements.
                A format that integrates some combination of residential, commercial,
                industrial, or institutional development in one single building or within one
                single development. Mixed use development may be vertically integrated, where
                two or more differing types of land use are located on the different floors
Mixed Use       of a single building, or horizontally integrated where a single development
Development     contains two or more buildings, each one devoted to different type of land
                use. For example, a typical vertically-integrated mixed use development is a
                single building with retail on the ground floor and residential development
                (apartments) on the upper floor(s). A typical horizontally-integrated mixed-
                use development may be a shopping mall that includes an apartment complex on
                the same lot or development site.
                A detached residential dwelling unit constructed prior to July 15, 1976 that
                does not bear a certification of compliance with National Manufactured
                Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. A mobile home is
                designed for transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its
Mobile Home     own wheels or a flatbed or other trailer, and arriving at the site where it
                is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for
                minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or
                other temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and
                similar features.
                A commercial use where land is divided into individual leaseholds but not
Mobile Home     individual lots owned in fee simple that are intended for occupation by
Park            individual mobile, manufactured, or modular homes. Mobile home parks may
                include shared or individual accessways, recreation facilities, and other
                shared accessory uses like laundries, storage, or refuse collection areas.
                A commercial use where land is divided into individual leaseholds but not
Mobile Home     individual lots owned in fee simple that are intended for occupation by
Park            individual mobile, manufactured, or modular homes. Mobile home parks may
                include shared or individual accessways, recreation facilities, and other
                shared accessory uses like laundries, storage, or refuse collection areas.
Molding         An ornamentally shaped outline as an architectural feature, especially in a
                cornice.
                A permanent marker, typically inserted into the ground, showing the location
Monument        of a lot line, lot corner, or other demarcation associated with a lot or
                right-of-way.
Motel           See "Hotel or Motel."
                Every self-propelled vehicle designed to run upon the highways and every
Motor Vehicle   vehicle designed to run upon the highways that is pulled by a self-propelled
                vehicle.
                A development that includes five or more dwelling units configured in on or
Multi-Family    more buildings on the same lot or development site. The development includes
Development     shared parking areas, shared open spaces around the development, active
                recreation features, and centralized waste/refuse collection facilities.
                A structure containing five or more dwelling units that are not located on
                individual lots. Units may be located side by side in a horizontal
Multi-Family    configuration or stacked one above the other in a vertical configuration,
Dwelling        sharing common vertical walls or horizontal floors and ceilings. Multi-family
                dwellings include what are commonly called apartments, or condominium units,
                but not single-family attached dwellings.
Multiple Lot    Developments that include two or more buildings on two or more lots that is
Development     planned, organized, and managed as a single development for the purposes of
                the development standards.
                A form of infrastructure that supports multiple recreation and transportation
Multi-Use Path  opportunities, such as walking, bicycling, inline skating and people in
                wheelchairs. Paths are typically surfaced with asphalt, concrete, or firmly
                packed crushed aggregate.
Mural           A painting or other work of art executed directly on a wall.
                A building serving as a repository for a collection of natural, scientific,
                historical, or literary curiosities or works of art, and arranged, intended,
Museum          and designed to be used by members of the public for viewing, with or without
                an admission charge, and which may include as an accessory use the limited
                retail sale of goods, services, or products such as prepared food to the
                public.
 
DEFINITIONS
N
National      A program operated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency that provides
Flood         flood insurance for development within areas that are susceptible to flooding
Insurance     and establishes a set of standards for development as a condition of
Program       participation in the program.
National
Geodetic      As corrected in 1929 is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing
Vertical      varying elevations within the floodplain.
Datum (NGVD)
Native Tree   See "Tree, Native."
Natural       A site designated by federal government to encourage historic preservation of
Heritage Area the area and an appreciation of the history and heritage of the site.
Neighborhood  A meeting conducted by the applicant of a proposed development with those in the
Meeting       area around the proposed development.
Neon Lighting See "Luminous Tube Lighting."
              For the purposes of Section
New           3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Structures for which the start of
Construction  construction commenced on or after the effective date of this part and includes
              any subsequent improvements to such structures.
              For the purposes of Section
New           3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: A manufactured home park or
Manufactured  subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
Home Park or  which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
Subdivision   installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
              grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after the effective
              date of this part.
              Any establishment, whether public or a private club, serving a predominantly
              adult clientele, and whose primary business is the sale of alcoholic beverages,
              including beer and wine, for consumption on the premises in conjunction with
              dancing or live performances, and which sets a minimum age requirement for
              entrance.
Nightclub or  An establishment is not a nightclub if the establishment: (1) has a Class A
Dance Hall    restaurant license from the State of North Carolina; (2) maintains a full
              service restaurant on its premises at all times when it is open to the public
              for business; or (3) provides facilities for seating not less than 40 persons
              simultaneously at tables for the service of meals. The establishment is also not
              a nightclub if the establishment allows entrance at all times to any person
              regardless of age.
Nonconforming For the purposes of Section
Building or   3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Any legally existing building or use
Use           which fails to comply with the provisions of the ordinance.
Nonconforming A lot of record that was lawful at the date on which it was established, but
Lot           does not conform to the current dimensional requirements of the zoning district
              in which it is located.
Nonconforming Any sign that was lawfully established, but does not meet the standards of this
Sign          Ordinance.
Nonconforming A site that was legally established, but that is not presently in full
Site          compliance with elements of this Ordinance pertaining to landscaping, lighting,
              access and on-site circulation, parking areas, and screening.
Nonconforming A structure that was lawful on the date on which it was established, but does
Structure     not conform to current dimensional, elevation, location, or other requirements
              of this Ordinance.
              A use type which was lawful on the date on which it was established, but is now
Nonconforming no longer a permitted use of that lot, building, or structure under this
Use           ordinance. A use that when established did not require a special use permit, but
              now requires a special use permit shall be considered a nonconforming use until
              special use permit approval is obtained.
              Any land use, development, structure, or site, including any lot of record, that
Nonconformity was legally established, but that is not presently in full compliance with the
              provisions of this Ordinance.
              A document stating that the owner will not convert or alter what has been
Non-          constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is considered a violation
Conversion    of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same enforcement procedures and
Agreement     penalties. The agreement must be filed with the recorded deed for the property.
              The agreement must show the clerk's or recorder’s stamps and/or notations that
              the filing has been completed.
Non-          The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
Encroachment  must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
Area          increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as designated in the
              Flood Insurance Study report.
              As used in Section
              7.4, Stormwater, non-structural BMPs are preventive actions that involve
              management and source controls such as:
Non-          (1)   Policies and ordinances that provide requirements and standards to direct
Structural    growth to identified areas, protect sensitive areas such as wetlands and
BMP           riparian areas, maintain and/or increase open space, provide buffers along
              sensitive water bodies, minimize impervious surfaces, and/or minimize
              disturbance of soils and vegetation;
              (2)   Policies or ordinances that encourage infill development in higher density
              urban areas, and areas with existing storm sewer infrastructure;
              (3)   Education programs for developers and the public about minimizing water
              quality impacts;
             (4)   Other measures such as minimizing the percentage of impervious area after
              development, use of measures to minimize directly connected impervious areas,
              and source control measures often thought of as good housekeeping, preventive
              maintenance and spill prevention.
North         The most-recently adopted construction code for buildings adopted by the North
Carolina      Carolina Department of Insurance.
Building Code
              The formal legal notification of a public hearing on a proposed development
Notice of     application. A "published notice" is one required to be printed in a newspaper
Public        of general circulation. A "mailed notice" is one delivered to specified
Hearing       individuals by US Mail. A "posted notice" is a sign posted on or near the
              property subject to the application.
Notice of     A notice indicating a violation of this Ordinance.
Violation
Nursing Home  An institution that is licensed or approved to provide health care under skilled
              medical supervision for 24 hours a day.
 
DEFINITIONS
O
                                 The term "oath" shall be construed to include
                                 an affirmation in all cases in which, by law,
Oath                             an affirmation may be substituted for an oath,
                                 and in like cases the terms "swear" and
                                 "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms
                                 "affirm" and "affirmed."
                                 The act, state, or condition of holding,
Occupancy                        possessing, residing, or otherwise using a
                                 premises, lot, site, building, or dwelling.
                                 A room or group of rooms used for the purpose
                                 of providing medical care or treatment,
                                 including therapeutic services and counseling.
                                 Examples of medical offices include
                                 physicians, dentists, ophthalmologists,
                                 chiropractors, psychologists, and similar
                                 medical specialists. Medical offices may or
Office, Medical                  may not include laboratories, medication
                                 sales, and physical therapy facilities as an
                                 accessory use. Use types where medical
                                 professionals from differing firms or
                                 practices provide services or where patients
                                 receive treatment or services beyond the scope
                                 of a typical office visit are health care
                                 uses.
                                 A room or group of rooms used for conducting
                                 the affairs of a business, profession.
                                 Examples of professional offices include
Office, Professional             offices for lawyers, accountants, engineers,
                                 architects, and similar professions.
                                 Professional offices may include a shared
                                 kitchen, lobby area, meeting rooms, and
                                 document production areas.
                                 A room, or group of rooms used for conducting
                                 the affairs of a general business
                                 establishment, including financial services or
                                 sales of real estate or other personal
                                 property, but not professional services.
Office, Sales or Service         Examples of sales and service office uses
                                 include offices for retail and wholesale
                                 establishments, banking services, investment
                                 banking, stock brokerage, investment services,
                                 credit card services, real estate sales,
                                 artwork, artifacts, or other specialized
                                 items.
                                 The Official Zoning Map upon which the
Official Zoning Map              boundaries of various zoning districts are
                                 drawn and which is an integral part of this
                                 Ordinance.
                                 Views of or into a development site from off-
Off-Site Views                   site locations such as other lots, rights-of-
                                 way, or locations within the public realm.
                                 Placement of landscape material in a
On-Center Spacing                regularly-spaced pattern of equal distance
                                 between plants.
On-Site Sewage Disposal System   A wastewater treatment system serving an
                                 individual lot or site.
Opacity                          A measurement indicating the degree of
                                 obscuration of light or visibility.
                                 A building, structure, building material,
Opaque                           vegetation, or other site feature that forms a
                                 solid visual barrier.
Open Air Use of Land             A use type that does not include an habitable
                                 buildings or structures.
                                 Land or water areas within the site designated
                                 for a particular development, not individually
                                 owned or dedicated for public use, which is
Open Space Set-Aside             designed and intended for the common use or
                                 enjoyment of the residents of the development,
                                 but not including any lands occupied by
                                 streets, street rights-of-way or off-street
                                 parking.
Ordinance                        A legislative enactment of the Town of
                                 Zebulon, North Carolina.
                                 Work done on a sign or structure to prevent
                                 deterioration or to replace any part thereof
                                 in order to correct any deterioration, decay,
Ordinary Repairs and Maintenance or damage to any part thereof in order to
                                 restore same as nearly as practical to its
                                 condition prior to such deterioration, decay
                                 or damage.
                                 Commercial enterprises that provide goods at
                                 retail directly to the consumer, where such
                                 goods are available for immediate purchase and
                                 removal from the premises by the purchaser.
                                 Examples include stores selling, leasing, or
                                 renting consumer, home, and business goods
                                 such as art, art supplies, bicycles, cameras,
Other Retail Use                 clothing, dry goods, electronic equipment,
                                 fabric, furniture, garden supplies, gifts,
                                 groceries and food sales, hardware, home
                                 improvements, household products, jewelry,
                                 pets, pet food, plants, printed material,
                                 stationary, and videos. Retail establishments
                                 meeting the threshold requirements for large
                                 format retail are treated as large format
                                 retail uses.
                                 A commercial establishment located entirely
                                 primarily outdoors that provides recreational,
                                 amusement, and entertainment opportunities for
                                 patrons, including activities such as: water
Outdoor Commercial Recreation    parks, miniature golf, go cart racing,
                                 obstacle or ropes courses, zip lines,
                                 paintball, mechanical rides, and similar
                                 attractions. Outdoor commercial recreation
                                 uses may include buildings or structures that
                                 also provide indoor recreational activities.
                                 The provision of on-site outdoor seating areas
                                 by a commercial or institutional use type
                                 where food or beverages are served for
Outdoor Dining                   consumption. The accessory use also may
                                 include outdoor seating areas on public
                                 sidewalks in front of or to the side of the
                                 establishment.
                                 The keeping of any goods, merchandise, or
Outdoor Display                  vehicles, in an unroofed area for marketing or
                                 sales purposes.
                                 The temporary sale of goods or products
                                 associated with the season or a cultural
                                 event, such as the sale of Christmas trees,
Outdoor Seasonal Sales           pumpkins, or seasonal produce. Such sales
                                 typically take place outdoors and in locations
                                 not devoted to such sales for the remainder of
                                 the year.
                                 The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods
                                 or materials, particularly goods and materials
                                 that have a large size, mass, or volume and
                                 are either not easily moved or carried or
Outdoor Storage                  require a mechanical lifting device (e.g.,
                                 non-bagged mulch and lumber). This use does
                                 not include a junkyard or recycling facility,
                                 vehicle fleet storage, or the display and
                                 storage of vehicles as part of an automobile
                                 sales or rental use.
                                 A lot located within a multi-tenant
                                 development (e.g., a shopping center) which
                                 may or may not have access from a public road
Outparcel                        abutting the development. The lot is treated
                                 as part of the larger development with respect
                                 to applicable yard and dimensional
                                 requirements.
                                 A small-scale facility where patients are
                                 admitted for examination and treatment by one
                                 or more physicians, dentists, or psychologists
                                 on a short-term basis. Patients may or may not
Outpatient Treatment Facility    receive care or lodging overnight, but the
                                 facility is not intended for long-term
                                 overnight care. Such facilities may include
                                 sleeping rooms for care workers and members of
                                 patient's families.
Overhang                         The edge of a roof or upper building story
                                 projecting outwards.
                                 A zoning district designation that is applied
                                 over one or more previously established
                                 general or conditional zoning district
                                 designations. Overlay districts modify the
                                 existing zoning district provisions by either
Overlay Zoning District          adding additional regulations or providing
                                 greater flexibility in deviations from the
                                 existing applicable standards. Typically, when
                                 overlay district standards conflict with the
                                 underlying general or conditional zoning
                                 district standards, the overlay zoning
                                 district standards control.
                                 The legal or beneficial owner of land,
                                 including a mortgagee or vendee in possession,
                                 receiver, executor, trustee, or long-term or
Owner                            commercial lessee, or any other person or
                                 entity holding proprietary rights in the
                                 property or having legal power of management
                                 and control of the property.
                                 An organization of homeowners or property
                                 owners of lots or land in a particular
                                 subdivision, condominium, or planned
Owner Association                development. The owners' association is
                                 responsible for maintaining and enhancing the
                                 shared private infrastructure (e.g.,
                                 stormwater, streets, and sidewalks) and common
                                 elements such as recreation areas.
 
DEFINITIONS
P
                                      A commercial establishment providing
                                      printing, faxing, copying, document
                                      binding, photographic processing,
                                      packing, mailbox, mailing, and related
Package and Printing Service          services. Printing, document production,
                                      and processing services may be provided
                                      either on- or off-site. Such uses may
                                      also provide computer terminals, copiers,
                                      and similar equipment for self-service
                                      use by customers.
Pad Site                              See "Outparcel."
Parapet Wall                          See "Wall, Parapet."
Parent Parcel                         A tract of land further subdivided into
                                      one or more additional lots.
                                      Land used for recreation, exercise,
                                      sports, education, rehabilitation, or
                                      similar activities, or a land area
Park (public or private)              intended to enhance the enjoyment of
                                      natural features or natural beauty,
                                      specifically excluding commercially
                                      operated amusement parks.
                                      Parking facilities close to or connected
                                      with public transport facilities that
Park and Ride Facility                allow commuters and other transit users
                                      to leave their private vehicles and
                                      transfer to a bus, rail, ferry, or
                                      carpool for the remainder of the journey.
Park Land                             Land intended for development as a public
                                      park or recreation area.
Parking Area                          See "Parking Lot."
                                      The portion of a site or development
                                      dedicated to vehicular ingress and
                                      egress, off-street parking, parking
Parking Lot                           aisles, internal travel ways, fire lanes,
                                      and other areas dedicated to vehicular
                                      use, but not necessarily including
                                      vehicular storage areas.
                                      Vehicular access provided between the
                                      vehicular use areas of two or more
Parking Lot Connection                development sites or parcels of land
                                      intended to allow travel between the
                                      sites without the use of a street.
                                      A point of ingress into a parking lot
                                      from a street. A parking lot stem does
Parking Lot Stem                      not accommodate parking areas or access
                                      to drive aisles within its minimum
                                      length.
                                      The temporary storage of motor vehicles
Parking of Heavy Trucks, Trailers, or over 10,000 pounds of gross vehicle
Major Recreational Equipment          weight and associated trailers or
                                      equipment, including recreational
                                      vehicles, campers, or travel trailers.
                                      A plan or diagram prepared by an
                                      applicant for development that depicts
                                      the required and provided number of
                                      parking spaces (if different from the
Parking Plan                          required number of parking spaces. The
                                      plan also shows points of vehicular
                                      ingress and egress, drive aisles, the
                                      locations of parking lot landscaping
                                      islands, pedestrian circulation features,
                                      and off-street loading facilities.
Parking Space                         A location where an automobile or
                                      passenger truck is temporarily stored.
                                      On-street parking spaces configured at an
Parking Space, Reverse Angle          angle to the direction of travel for the
                                      street where located. Vehicles back into
                                      reverse angle parking spaces.
                                      A structure designed to accommodate
                                      vehicular parking spaces that are fully
Parking Structure                     or partially enclosed or located on the
                                      deck surface of a building. This
                                      definition includes parking garages and
                                      deck parking.
                                      A structure designed to accommodate
                                      vehicular parking spaces that are fully
Parking Structure                     or partially enclosed or located on the
                                      deck surface of a building. This
                                      definition includes parking garages and
                                      deck parking.
                                      An analysis of the minimum number of off-
Parking Study                         street parking spaces necessary to serve
                                      a proposed use type.
                                      A facility that receives and discharges
                                      passengers and at which facilities and
Passenger Terminal                    equipment required for their operation
                                      are provided. Examples include terminals
                                      for bus, trolley, taxi, railroad, shuttle
                                      van, or other similar vehicular services.
                                      Open space areas designated for passive
                                      recreation uses including walking trails,
Passive Open Space Set-Aside          pathways, gazebos, picnic areas,
                                      fountains, and similar areas. Such areas
                                      may also include undisturbed natural
                                      vegetation.
                                      An establishment that engages, in whole
                                      or in part, in the business of loaning
                                      money on the security of pledges of
                                      personal property, or deposits or
Pawn Shop                             conditional sales of personal property,
                                      or the purchase or sale of personal
                                      property. This shell not include specific
                                      item businesses such as book stores,
                                      music stores, or similar retail
                                      establishments.
                                      As used in Section
                                      6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, the
Peak Hour Trips                       number of traffic units generated by and
                                      attracted to the proposed development
                                      during its heaviest hour of use.
Pedestrian Lighting                   Exterior lighting scaled to pedestrians.
                                      An on-site pedestrian access way
Pedestrian Walkway                    connecting building entrances, parking
                                      areas, and the larger sidewalk network
                                      around the site.
                                      The triangular upper part of the front of
Pediment                              a building in classical style, typically
                                      surmounting a portico of columns.
Penalty                               Punishment for violation of a law or
                                      rule.
                                      A lightweight plastic, fabric, or other
                                      material, whether or not containing a
Pennant                               message of any kind, suspended from a
                                      rope, wire, or string, usually in series,
                                      designed to move in the wind.
                                      Cash or other guarantee provided by an
                                      applicant in-lieu of completion of public
Performance Guarantee                 infrastructure or required public site
                                      feature prior to issuance of a building
                                      permit or other development approval.
Perimeter Buffer                      See "Buffer, Perimeter."
Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping     Required landscaping located around the
                                      perimeter of a parking lot.
                                      Any individual, partnership, firm,
                                      association, joint venture, public or
Person                                private corporation, trust, estate,
                                      commission, board, public or private
                                      institution, utility, cooperative,
                                      interstate body, or other legal entity.
                                      Any person who may be held responsible
Person Conducting Land-Disturbing     for violation of any regulations
Activity                              governing land-disturbing activity,
                                      unless expressly provided otherwise.
Personal Property                     All forms of property, except real
                                      property.
Pervious                              A substance that allows water to pass
                                      through it.
                                      A commercial establishment engaged in the
                                      storage, preparation, and sale of drugs
                                      and other medications to customers at
                                      retail. Pharmacy uses may also offer a
                                      wide variety of food, household goods, or
                                      other personal products for sale. A
Pharmacy                              pharmacy may also incorporate a medical
                                      technician who provides on-site medical
                                      assistance and counseling to patrons.
                                      Pharmacies that exceed the floor area
                                      thresholds for large format retail uses
                                      shall be considered as a large format
                                      retail use.
Phase                                 The discrete portion of a proposed
                                      development.
                                      A rectangular column with a capital and
Pilaster                              base that is attached or affixed to a
                                      wall as an ornamental design feature.
                                      An area of land under unified ownership
                                      or control to be developed and improved
Planned Development                   as a single entity under a planned
                                      development master plan in accordance
                                      with this Ordinance.
                                      An advisory body responsible for making
                                      recommendations on certain applications
                                      for development approval to the Board of
Planning Board                        Commissioners. The Planning Board also
                                      makes special studies of land use and
                                      assists in the preparation and revision
                                      of the comprehensive plan.
                                      The dormant time of the year for trees
Planting Season                       beginning with leaf drop and ending with
                                      bud break; generally late fall to early
                                      spring.
Planting Strip                        Required landscaping material configured
                                      in a linear strip.
Plat                                  A surveyed map or plan for a parcel of
                                      land.
                                      Recreational equipment, whether temporary
Play Equipment                        or permanent, placed for the exercise and
                                      enjoyment of persons on the site of a
                                      different principal use.
Play Structure                        A non-habitable structure intended for
                                      recreational purposes.
                                      An open space at the intersection of
                                      important streets or adjacent to
                                      important structures, set aside for civic
Plaza                                 purposes and commercial activity, which
                                      may include parking, consisting of
                                      durable pavement, and formal landscaping
                                      or tree plantings.
                                      A simple drawing or sketch depicting
Plot Plan                             compliance with one or more requirements
                                      of this Ordinance.
                                      A cohesive development of at least four
                                      but no more than 12 single-family
                                      detached dwellings, each on their own
                                      lot, located around a common open space
Pocket Neighborhood                   and served by either on-street, on-site,
                                      or shared off-street parking. Each home
                                      fronts the common open space, and is
                                      configured with a front porch and windows
                                      on the front facade.
                                      A facility that includes equipment and
                                      structures used to train police, fire,
                                      and other emergency services personnel in
Police/Fire Training Facility         the execution of their duties. Such
                                      facilities may include meeting rooms, gun
                                      ranges, burn rooms, training structures,
                                      and mobile training facilities.
                                      A commercial establishment providing one
                                      or more tables for use by patrons to play
                                      billiards. Such uses may include darts or
Pool Hall                             other games and may include the accessory
                                      sale of food or beverages. A pool hall
                                      earns at least 50 percent of its revenue
                                      from billiards or other games and not the
                                      accessory sale of food or beverages.
                                      A covered projection (can be glazed or
Porch                                 screened) from the main wall of a
                                      building, with a separate roof, that is
                                      not used for livable space.
                                      A moveable container intended for storage
Portable Storage Container            of personal property, waste, or debris,
                                      that is brought to a site on a temporary
                                      basis.
                                      A large porch usually with a pediment
Portico                               usually associated with an entrance,
                                      supported by columns.
                                      An office or station of a government
                                      postal system at which mail is received
Post Office                           and sorted, from which it is dispatched
                                      and distributed, and at which stamps are
                                      sold or other services rendered.
                                      Construction or other development for
                                      which the "start of construction"
Post-Firm                             occurred on or after the effective date
                                      of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map
                                      for the area.
                                      A meeting or conference conducted by a
                                      potential applicant for a permit or
Pre-Application Conference            development approval and town staff for
                                      the purposes of discussing a potential
                                      application or town rules regarding
                                      development.
                                      For the purposes of the standards in
                                      Section
                                      4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication
                                      Facilities, Pre-Construction Grade means
Pre-Construction Grade                the finished ground level elevation prior
                                      to construction. In cases where there is
                                      significant change in elevation over the
                                      course of a lot or site, the median
                                      elevation of the lot or site may be used.
                                      Construction or other development for
                                      which the "start of construction"
Pre-Firm                              occurred before the effective date of the
                                      initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the
                                      area.
                                      A drawing or plan showing the proposed
                                      organization of lot boundaries, streets,
Preliminary Plat                      public infrastructure, open space, and
                                      other site configuration features
                                      associated with a proposed development.
Primary Building Wall                 See "Wall, Primary."
                                      The portion of a conservation subdivision
Primary Conservation Area             required to be included within the
                                      conservation or set-aside area where
                                      development will not take place.
                                      The place of ingress and egress to a
Primary Entrance                      building, parcel, or development used
                                      most frequently by the public.
Primary Roof Ridgeline                The longest ridgeline on a building with
                                      a pitched roof.
Primary Wall Plane                    See "Wall Plane, Primary."
Prime Agricultural Land               Resource land best suited for
                                      agricultural activity.
Principal Building                    See "Principal Structure."
                                      A structure in which is conducted the
Principal Structure                   principal use(s) of the lot on which it
                                      is located.
Principal Use                         A primary or predominate use of a lot or
                                      parcel.
                                      For the purposes of the FHO, a condition
Principally Above Ground              where at least 51 percent of the actual
                                      cash value of the structure is above
                                      ground.
Private Street                        See "Street, Private."
                                      A building or structure used for the
                                      retail sales of fresh fruits, vegetables,
                                      flowers, herbs or plants grown on the
                                      same parcel of land where the stand is
                                      located. Such use may also involve the
                                      accessory sales of other unprocessed
                                      foodstuffs, home processed food products
Produce Stand                         such as jams, jellies, pickles, sauces or
                                      baked goods, and homemade handicrafts. No
                                      commercially packaged handicrafts or
                                      commercially processed or packaged
                                      foodstuffs shall be sold. Such uses also
                                      include "pick your own" establishments
                                      where customers gather their own produce
                                      from the fields for purchase and off-site
                                      consumption.
Professional Engineer                 A civil, structural, or traffic engineer
                                      licensed by the State of North Carolina.
                                      As used in Section
                                      6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, the
Projected Traffic                     number of traffic units that is projected
                                      to exist at a given point in time on an
                                      existing or proposed street.
Projection                            Habitable space projecting outwards from
                                      the main wall of a building.
                                      All real property subject to land-use
                                      regulation by a local government. The
Property                              term includes any improvements or
                                      structures customarily regarded as a part
                                      of real property.
Protected Tree                        See "Tree, Protected."
                                      Exterior building materials and
Prototypical Architecture             architecture that is standardized for a
                                      particular use type or franchise
                                      operation.
                                      Inpatient facility which provides care
Psychiatric Treatment Facility        for persons with psychiatric problems and
                                      which may include outpatient follow-up
                                      care to the facility's patients.
                                      Art, in any media, that has been planned
Public Art                            and executed with the intention of being
                                      staged in the physical public domain,
                                      usually outside and accessible to all.
                                      A publicly-owned and operated facility
Public Convenience Center/Transfer    for the purposes of collection of trash
Station                               and waste for relocation to a sorting
                                      facility or permanent long term storage
                                      location.
Public Gathering Area                 See "Gathering Area."
                                      A public hearing held for the purpose of
                                      soliciting public comments on a proposed
                                      development application. Reasonable time
                                      limits on speakers may be imposed and
Public Hearing, Legislative           responsible decorum maintained. However,
                                      unlike quasi-judicial hearings, there is
                                      no requirement for oaths, no limits on
                                      expression of personal opinions, and no
                                      limit on discussing the matter outside
                                      the context of the hearing.
                                      A public hearing involving the legal
                                      rights of specific parties conducted by
                                      the Board of Commissioners, the Board of
                                      Adjustment, or the Planning Board based
                                      on evidence and sworn testimony presented
Public Hearing, Quasi-Judicial        during the public hearing. Decisions made
                                      during such hearings are based upon and
                                      supported by the record developed at the
                                      hearing, and involve findings of fact and
                                      conclusions of law made by the review
                                      authority.
                                      Infrastructure or facilities (such as
                                      water lines, streets, storm drainage,
Public Infrastructure                 sidewalks, trails, etc.) owned by the
                                      public and intended for use by the
                                      public.
                                      A gathering of town officials and
                                      interested members of the public to
                                      discuss an action of the town or consider
                                      a development application. Unlike a
Public Meeting                        public hearing, no prior public
                                      notification is required for a public
                                      meeting, and the acceptance of testimony
                                      from meeting attendees is at the
                                      discretion of the review authority
                                      conducting the public meeting.
                                      Land, buildings, and structures owned by
Public Realm                          the government or a governmental entity
                                      that is made available for use by all
                                      persons.
                                      A right-of-way owned, leased, or operated
Public Right-of-Way                   by the Town, but not including any street
                                      or alley that is a part of the State
                                      highway system.
                                      Anything which is injurious to the safety
                                      or health of an entire community or
                                      neighborhood, or any considerable number
Public Safety or Nuisance             of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the
                                      free passage or use, in the customary
                                      manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
                                      bay, stream, canal, or basin.
Public Street                         See "Street, Public."
 
 
DEFINITIONS
Q
               A single detached dwelling on one lot that contains four
               dwelling units. The units may be located side by side in a
Quadplex       horizontal configuration or stacked one above the other in a
               vertical configuration, sharing common vertical walls or
               horizontal floors and ceilings.
Quasi-Judicial See "Public Hearing, Quasi-Judicial."
               The minimum number of council, board, or commission members that
Quorum         must be present in order to conduct official business or take
               official action.
 
DEFINITIONS
R
               A track, whether paved or unpaved, for the competitive racing of automobiles,
Racetrack      motorcycles, trucks, tractors, dogs, or horses. Such uses may also include
               seating for spectators, equipment and staging areas, and concessions areas.
Radii          Curves or bends in a street, sidewalk, greenway, or other travel route.
Rain Garden    See "Bio-Retention Cell."
Raw or Semi-   Products, materials, or components in an original or unrefined state that are
Finished       altered through the manufacturing process.
Materials
Real Property  All land, all buildings, all structures, and other fixtures firmly attached
               thereto.
Rear Facade    See "Facade, Rear."
Reasonable     Any change or adjustment to a provision of this Ordinance or condition of
Accommodation  approval that would allow an individual with a disability to enjoy equal access
               to a dwelling, structure or site that is available to other individuals.
Recess         Habitable space that is recessed inwards from the main wall of a building.
Record Drawing See "As-Built Plans."
               For the purposes of Section
               3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: A vehicle, which is:
               (a)   Built on a single chassis;
Recreational   (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
Vehicle        projection;
               (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
               and
               (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary
               living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
               A commercial establishment offering individual spaces or "sites" for short term
               rental to owners or operators of recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Such
               uses typically have shared or common resfroom, showering, and laundry facilities,
Recreational   and may also include recreational features and incidental sale of food, travel
Vehicle Park   supplies, and recreational vehicle equipment. Rental of an individual site for a
               period of more than three continuous months, or uses that allow vehicles to be
               modified in ways that result in permanent, non-mobile structures are considered
               mobile home parks.
Recycling      A facility engaged solely in the storage, processing, resale, or reuse of
Center         recyclable and recovered materials.
               Any development on previously developed land, other than a rebuilding activity
Redevelopment  that results in no net increase in built-upon area and provides equal or greater
               stormwater control than the previous development.
Reference      The top of the lowest floor for structures within special flood hazard areas
Level          designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99, or AO.
Reforestation  The re-establishment of trees or tree canopy cover to land area that was cleared
               prior to or as part of the development process.
Reforestation  The portion of a lot or site designated for the retention of or planting of trees
Area           in accordance with the reforestation requirements.
Refuse         A metal or plastic container used for the collection and temporary storage of
Collection     refuse or waste for pickup by the Town or a solid waste management contractor.
Container
Register of    A public officer designated by Wake County to register documents, mainly related
Deeds          to real estate. The register of deeds verifies mortgage ownership and property
               ownership in official record books.
               The act or process of returning a property to a state of utility through repair
Rehabilitation or alteration that makes possible an efficient contemporary use while preserving
               those portions or features of the property that are significant to its
               historical, architectural and cultural values.
               A structure or place in which worship, ceremonies, rituals, and education are
Religious      held, together with its accessory buildings and uses (including buildings used
Institution    for educational and recreational activities), operated, maintained, and
               controlled under the direction of a religious group.
Remedy         The manner in which a right or law is enforced or satisfied when a violation of
               the UDO or related law has occurred.
               For the purposes of Section
Remedy a       3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: To bring the structure or other
Violation      development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
               regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its
               noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
               reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from flood
              damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise
               deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial exposure with
               regard to the structure or other development.
               An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of repair services for
               electronics, bicycles, clocks, watches, shoes, guns, canvas products, appliances,
Repair Shop    and office equipment; including tailor; locksmith; and upholsterer. Repair
               establishments do not include outdoor storage of goods, materials, or equipment.
               Repair of cars, trucks, or similar heavy equipment is a vehicle-related
               establishment.
Required       An area required to be planted with trees, shrubs, or ground cover as required by
Landscape Area Section
               5.6, Landscaping.
               A business that engages in research, or research and development, of innovative
Research and   ideas in technology-intensive fields. Examples include research and development
Development    of prototypical devices as well as the creation and testing of drugs and
               compounds, vehicles, equipment, and industrial processes.
Reservation    An obligation, shown on a subdivision or site plan, to keep land free from
               development and available for public acquisition for a stated period of time.
Reserve Fund   A bank account containing reserve funds for the purpose of maintaining commonly-
               held land, infrastructure, or facilities.
Reserve Strips Strips of land that are not developed as a means of limiting or preventing
               vehicular access.
               Buildings for residence such as attached and detached single-family dwellings,
Residential    apartment complexes, condominiums, townhouses and cottages and their associated
Development    outbuildings such as garages, storage buildings and gazebos and customary home
               occupations.
Resolution     The official written expression of the opinion or the will of the Board of
               Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or Planning Board.
               An establishment where meals or prepared food, including beverages and
Restaurant     confections, are served to customers for consumption on or off the premises.
Indoor/Outdoor Seating for patrons consuming products on site are located either indoors or
Seating        outdoors, and the use does not provide drive-through service. Such uses may
               include a bar or cocktail lounge as an accessory use.
Restaurant     An establishment where meals or prepared food, including beverages and
with Drive-    confections, are prepared and made available to customers for on-site or off-site
Through/       consumption. Seating for on-site consumption of products may be located either
Drive-Up       indoors or outdoors. The use also includes a window intended to serve patrons who
Service        do not leave their vehicles to order, receive, and consume order products. Such
               uses typically do not include a bar or cocktail lounge.
               An establishment where meals or prepared food, including beverages and
               confections, are prepared and made available to customers for on-site or off-site
               consumption. However, ordering and receipt of ordered products take place through
Restaurant,    a window or other opening that separates restaurant employees from customers.
Walk-Up Only   While restroom facilities may be included in a principal or accessory structure,
               on-site consumption of products takes place solely outdoors or in a structure
               that is accessory to and detached from the principal building where products are
               prepared.
               The act or process of accurately recovering the form and details of a property
Restoration    and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of time by means of the
               removal of later work or by the replacement of missing earlier work.
Retail Use,    Commercial establishments engaged in the retail sale of goods, including, but not
Other          limited to: florists, grocery stores, department stores, discount stores, thrift
               stores, and pawnshops.
               A retail establishment engaged in the retail sale of large or bulky items that
Retail, Bulky  are not commonly constructed or maintained indoors, such as truck camper tops,
Item           bed liners, prefabricated outdoor buildings, manufactured homes, modular homes,
               play equipment, portable storage containers, or hot tubs. Such uses may include
               on-site assembly or fabrication of such items for sale.
Retail, Large  A retail establishment consisting of a single or multiple tenants in one or more
Format         buildings totaling 70,000 square feet or more in area with 70 percent or more of
               the total floor area occupied by retail sales activities.
Retaining Wall A structure, either masonry, metal, or treated wood, designed to prevent the
               lateral displacement of soil, rock, fill, or other similar material.
Retention Pond A stormwater control measure consisting of a depression in the land that retains
               stormwater flow for gradual release into the surrounding soil.
Revegetation   A plan depicting the re-establishment or replanting of required vegetation or
Plan           landscaping material on a lot or site where clearing has taken place in violation
               of this Ordinance or a condition of approval.
Reverse Angle  See "Parking Space, Reverse Angle."
Parking Space
               A lot with two or more street frontages that includes a building or structure
Reverse        that is oriented in a manner that differs from other existing structures or from
Frontage       the development patterns indicated by adopted policy guidance or good planning
               practice.
Rezoning       See "Zoning Map Amendment."
Ribs           See "Fins."
               Shall mean that property located within and adjoining the streets, roads and
Right-of-Way   highways within the town, which rights-of-way are owned by the town or the state
               or are otherwise maintained by the town or the state.
Riparian       A vegetated area proximate to and parallel with a stream that helps shade and
Buffer         partially protect the stream and water quality from the impact of adjacent land
               uses.
Riverine       Terms relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries),
               stream, brook, etc.
Roadway        The paved portion of right-of-way over which vehicular traffic travels.
Roof Garden    Landscaping material, whether in a formal or informal arrangement located on the
               roof of a building or structure.
Roof Pitch     The amount of rise or the vertical increase in elevation over the run or the
               horizontal distance of a roof.
Roof Planes    Portions of a roof constructed at different angles to one another.
Roof Rake      The portion of a gabled roof that extends past the exterior wall of the building.
               Any floor space exceeding 40 square feet enclosed by partitions or walls having
Room           cased openings or doors but excluding areas devoted exclusively to kitchen and
               bath facilities.
Rooming House  See "Boarding House."
Rope Lighting  See "Luminous Tube Lighting."
               For the purposes of the standards in Section
               4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Routine Maintenance means simple,
               small-scale activities (usually requiring only minimal skills or training)
               associated with regular (daily, weekly, monthly, etc.), recurring, and
               preventative upkeep of a building, equipment, or machine against normal wear and
Routine        tear. For the purposes of this section, routine maintenance includes cleaning,
Maintenance    repair, and replacement of existing antennas, antenna support structures,
               wireless telecommunications equipment, equipment cabinets, equipment compounds,
               telecommunications towers, utility poles, or other vertical projections used to
               deliver wireless telecommunications services. Activities that result in larger,
               taller, more visible, more impactful, or additional wireless telecommunications
               equipment are not considered routine maintenance.
Rural          Patterns of land use and development in which open space, the natural landscape,
Character      and vegetation predominate over the built environment.
 
DEFINITIONS
S
              An establishment where junk, waste, discarded, salvaged, or similar materials
              such as old metals, wood, slush, lumber, glass, paper, rags, cloth, bagging,
Salvage or    cordage, barrels, containers, and the like, are brought, sold, exchanged, baled,
Junkyard      packed, disassembled, stored, or handled, including used lumber and building
              material yards, housewrecking yards, heavy equipment wrecking yards, and yards or
              places where salvaged house wrecking or structural steel materials are stored,
              handled, and sold.
              This definition includes automobile wrecking or automobile wrecking yards and
              establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of second-hand cars, clothing,
             salvaged machinery, furniture, radios, stoves, refrigerators, or similar
              household goods and appliances, all of which shall be usable, nor shall it apply
              to the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged materials incident to
              manufacturing activity on the same site where such processing occurs.
Scenic        The portion of a street subject to additional standards intended to protect or
Corridor      preserve the appearance of the land along the designated corridor from
              development that blocks or is inconsistent with the established character.
              A public or private school offering general, technical, or alternative
              instruction at the elementary school level that operates in buildings or
              structures or on premises on land leased or owned by the educational institution
School,       for administrative purposes. Such uses include classrooms, vocational training
Elementary    (including that of an industrial nature for instructional purposes only),
              laboratories, auditoriums, libraries, cafeterias, after school care, athletic
              facilities, dormitories, and other facilities that further the educational
              mission of the institution.
              A public or private school offering general, technical, or alternative
              instruction at the middle, and/or high school levels that operates in buildings
              or structures or on premises on land leased or owned by the educational
School, High/ institution for administrative purposes. Such uses include classrooms, vocational
Middle        training (including that of an industrial nature for instructional purposes
              only), laboratories, auditoriums, libraries, cafeterias, after school care,
              athletic facilities, dormitories, and other facilities that further the
              educational mission of the institution.
School,       An educational institution providing secondary or post-secondary education
Vocational    designed to provide vocational education, or technical skills required to perform
              the tasks of a particular and specific job or trade.
Screening     A wall, whether part of habitable space or not, that interrupts off-site views
Wall          into a site.
Secondary     See "Wall, Secondary."
Building Wall
Secondary     The portion of a conservation subdivision containing resources to be retained as
Conservation  conservation land or open space after development that is not as imperative to
Area          retain as the primary conservation land.
Secondary     An entrance into a building located on a side or rear building facade.
Entrance
Security      Exterior illumination of a building, parking area, or other site feature for the
Lighting      purposes of security.
Sediment      Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that is transported by water,
              air, gravity, or ice from its site of origin.
              The process by which sediment resulting from accelerated erosion is transported
              off-site by land-disturbing activity.
Sedimentation For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: The process by which sediment
              resulting from accelerated erosion has been or is being transported off the site
              of the land-disturbing activity or into a wetland, stream, or floodplain.
Self Service  A storage building or buildings that are divided into sections or compartments
Storage,      for the storage of business or personal items on a temporary or long-term basis
External      only where all units have individual exterior access. Such uses may also include
Access Only   facilities for outdoor storage.
Self Service  A storage building or buildings that are divided into sections or compartments
Storage,      for the storage of business or personal items on a temporary or long-term basis
Internal      only where all units are accessed by one or more shared entrances. Such uses do
Access Only   not typically include outdoor storage.
Semi-Pervious A material that allows some, but not all, stormwater to flow through it.
              A facility typically for use by citizens of 60 years of age, or older, dedicated
Senior        to the provision of services, activities, or facilitation of interaction between
Center     older citizens and the community at large. Such centers may be publicly owned or
              operated for a profit.
Septic Tank   An on-site sewage treatment or storage device.
              A required distance from a lot line or development boundary for a principal or
Setback       accessory building and some required site features, as determined in accordance
              with Section
              9.3.4, Setbacks.
              The pruning, cutting, or otherwise damaging of the natural form of a tree or
              shrub, whether existing or planted, such that a significant or noticeable portion
Severe        of the crown system is removed (e.g., 25 percent of the crown removed from a
Pruning       tree, or the continued cutting/trimming of trees previously pruned illegally, or
              pruning of trees that must grow naturally to meet the landscaping requirements),
              and/or if more than 1/3 of the overall circumference of a tree is exposed by
              pruning cuts.
Shade Tree    See "Tree, Shade."
              A light fixture constructed and installed in such a manner that all light emitted
Shielding (or by it, either directly from the lamp (bulb) or a diffusing element, or indirectly
Shielded)     by reflection or refraction from any part of the fixture, is projected below the
              horizontal plane of the fixture.
Shooting      A commercial operation that provides an indoor location where gun owners or
Range, Indoor others may practice discharging firearms as well as maintain firearms and learn
              about firearm safety.
              A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems emerging
Shrub         from the ground, or small branches near the ground. Shrubs may be deciduous or
              evergreen.
Side Facade   See "Facade, Side."
Sidewalk      A paved area running parallel to the street for the purposes of pedestrian travel
              and to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and land.
Sight         The triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting two points located at
Distance      designated locations on intersecting right-of-way lines or a right-of-way line
Triangle      and the curb or a driveway.
              Any words, lettering, numerals, parts of letters or numerals, figures, phrases,
              sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or trademarks by which any
              message is made known, including any surface, fabric or other material or
Sign          structure designed to carry such devices that are used to designate or attract
              attention to an individual, firm, event, association, corporation, profession,
              business, or commodity or product that are exposed to public view. The definition
              of a sign does not include flags, badges, or insignias of any governmental unit.
Sign Cabinet  A metal enclosure housing sign face displays and methods of internal
              illumination, when provided.
Sign Face     The portion of sign that contains the message being conveyed, as determined in
Area          accordance with Section
              9.3.13, Signage Measurement.
Sign Height   The height to the tallest point of a sign structure, as determined in Section
              9.3.13, Signage Measurement.
              A development approval associated with the erection, alteration, continuation, or
Sign Permit   removal of signage or ancillary features associated with a sign.
              A development approval associated with the erection, alteration, continuation, or
              removal of signage or ancillary features associated with a sign.
Sign Support  The framework and structural support for a sign.
Structure
Sign, Awning  See
              Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign, Banner  See
              Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See "Sign, Outdoor Advertising."
Billboard
Sign, Bow     A feather flag sign with an elongated mounting post that curves at the top to
              form a circular shape within which the sign material is mounted.
Sign,         A sign with a portion of the face area that accommodates the regular or
Changeable    occasional manual modification to the message or copy.
Copy
Sign,         A sign that is old or that has been poorly maintained that poses a public safety
Dilapidated   hazard or is difficult to read.
Sign,         See "Sign, Political."
Election
Sign, Feather A sign made of fabric or similar material in a curvilinear shape that is mounted
Flag          to a pole along the long edge of the sign.
Sign, Fence   A temporary sign affixed to fencing surrounding an active construction site.
Wrap
Sign,         A sign with a message that is intermittently on and off or supplemented with
Flashing      lights that turn on and off in rapid succession.
Sign,         See "Sign, Pole."
Freestanding
Sign,         Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained for any government
Government    purposes.
Sign, Ground  See
              Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See
Incidental    Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         A hollow sign that is intended to expand as air is pumped inside of it.
Inflatable    Inflatable signs are tethered to the ground or some other structure.
Sign,         See "Sign, Ground."
Monument
              A sign that moves or has moving parts, including but not limited to the sign face
Sign, Moving  area, the sign support structure, or some other element of the sign. Flags and
              banners are not considered moving signs.
Sign,         A sign advertising a use or establishment that is no longer present.
Obsolete
Sign, Outdoor See
Advertising   Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
              A sign which is placed on or anchored in the ground with one or more supports
Sign, Pole    that are not part of a building or other structure and with open space between
              the bottom of the sign face area and the grade beneath it.
Sign,         See
Political     Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See
Projecting    Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign, Shingle A sign affixed to a horizontal cross arm that is mounted to a vertical or upright
Post          pole or post.
Sign,         See
Sidewalk      Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See
Subdivision   Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See
Supplemental  Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See
Suspended     Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign,         See "Sign, Supplemental."
Temporary
Sign, Traffic Signage devoted to warning motorists, pedestrians, or bicyclists of a potential
Warning       traffic hazard or other danger.
Sign, Wall    See
              Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
Sign, Window  See
              Table 5.11.9, Sign Standards by Sign Type.
              A dwelling unit that is physically attached to one or more other dwelling units,
Single-Family each on its own lot. Individual lots may or may not be surrounded by a larger
Attached      tract that incorporates shared parking, recreation features, or access. The
Dwelling      larger tract may or may not be owned in common by the landowners of individual
              lots.
              A dwelling containing one principal dwelling unit meeting the minimum size
              requirements in the State Building Code(s) that is occupied by one family and
Single-Family that is not physically attached to any other principal structure on an individual
Detached      lot. For regulatory purposes, this term does not include manufactured dwellings,
Dwelling      mobile homes, recreational vehicles, or travel trailers. An accessory dwelling
              unit may be within, attached to, or on the same lot as a single-family detached
              home.
Site Amenity  A utility or functional aspect of a site that is designed or configured in some
              way to be beneficial to pedestrians or aesthetically pleasing.
              Structures or elements (not including principal or accessory structures) required
Site Features or authorized to accompany a development, such as off-street parking,
              landscaping, exterior lighting, or signage.
              A graphical depiction of proposed development that may or may not be accompanied
Site Plan     by a textual description, material samples, models, photographs, or other
              materials intended to demonstrate the appearance or function of the development.
Slats, Fence  Thin strips of wood, plastic, or other material woven between the components of a
              chain link-style fence or gate.
Small         A wireless telecommunications facility consisting of an antenna and associated
Wireless      wireless telecommunications equipment installed on a utility pole, public utility
Facility      pole, building, or other vertical projection not specifically intended for the
              accommodation of wireless
              telecommunications facilities (e.g., a traffic signal mast arm, a light standard,
             sign pole, etc.) that does not exceed the maximum size requirements for such
              facilities as listed in Section 160D-931 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
Smooth-Faced
Concrete      Concrete blocks that do not include adornment or any surface relief.
Block
Soffit        The exterior material mounted to the underside of the roof rafters that project
              past the edge of an exterior building wall.
              A system consisting of solar panels, modules, and related equipment (e.g., heat
              exchanger, pipes, inverter, wiring, storage) that collects solar radiation and
              transfers it as heat to a carrier fluid for use in hot water heating or space
Solar Energy  heating and cooling, and/or that collects solar energy and converts it into
System        electricity. As an accessory use, a solar energy system is designed to primarily
              meet on-site demands (but may include transfer of excess electricity to an
              electric utility grid) and components are typically mounted on the roof(s) of
              principal or accessory structures, but may be mounted on other parts of
              structures, or on the ground.
              A group or series of photovoltaic (or solar) panels placed to convert solar
Solar Farm    radiation into usable direct current electricity and provide that electricity to
              a use on-site or to the larger electrical network. Such uses may include
              batteries for energy storage.
Soldier       One or more courses of bricks or blocks that are installed within a masonry wall
Course        in a vertical instead of horizontal alignment. Soldier courses are often used to
              denote differing floors of a multi-story building.
Solid Waste   Land, personnel and equipment used in the management of solid waste as defined in
Management    Title 15A of the North Carolina Administrative Code.
Facility
              Temporary activities or events conducted by civic, philanthropic, educational, or
              religious organizations, or activities of a business or organization that is not
Special Event part of its daily activities and are open to the public. Such activities include,
              but are not limited to, closeout sales, grand openings, fundraising or membership
              drives, carnivals, fairs, circuses, and tent revivals.
Special Flood The land area anticipated to be covered by the floodwaters associated with a base
Hazard Area   flood event.
              An authorization to establish a particular use in a particular area subject to
Special Use   extra scrutiny by a review authority to ensure the proposed use can maintain
Permit        compatibility with its surroundings while also minimizing all potential negative
              impacts of the development on its surroundings.
Specialty     Establishments selling specialty food items that normally do not constitute a
Eating        full meal, including but not limited to: ice cream parlors, dessert cafes, snack
Establishment shops, juice bars, and bakeries.
Speed Bumps   A ridge set into the paving of a road surface, typically at intervals, to control
(or Humps)    the speed of vehicles.
Speed Tables  Traffic calming devices similar to speed bumps except that the tables raise the
              wheelbase of the entire vehicle at once instead of when each axel passes over it.
Spire         A tapering, conical, or pyramidal structure on the top of a building, typically a
              church tower.
Splash Pad    An outdoor play area with sprinklers, fountains, nozzles, and other devices or
              structures that spray water into the air.
Stable (for   A building or structure devoted to the care and keeping of horses or other
horses)       livestock.
Stacking      A portion of the vehicular use area on a site that is dedicated to the temporary
Space         storage or "standing" of vehicles engaged in drive-through use of the site or
              development.
              For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: (For other than new construction or
              substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (P.L. 97-348)),
              includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
              issued, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within 180 days of the
Start of      permit date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
Construction  construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as
              the pouring of slab or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns,
              or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured
              home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation,
              such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include excavation for a
              basement, footings, piers
              or installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
              not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
             substantial improvement, the actual Start of Construction means the first
              alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building,
              whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State
Building Code The North Carolina State Building Code(s).
(s)
Statement of  A statement signed by the landowner of a single-family detached, attached, or
Consent       duplex dwelling development that records the landowner's willingness to
              voluntarily comply with the single-family design guidelines in this Ordinance.
Stop Work     An order issued by the town to a landowner or developer to cease and desist all
Order         land-disturbing or development activity on a site pending resolution of a problem
              or conflict.
Stop Work     An order issued by the City to a landowner or developer to cease and desist all
Order         land-disturbing or development activity on a site pending resolution of a problem
              or conflict.
Stopping Site The minimum amount of physical space necessary for a driver operating a vehicle
Distance      at the street's design speed to bring the vehicle to a complete stop before
              colliding with a pedestrian, stopped vehicle, animal, or debris in the roadway.
Storm Sewer   A stormwater conveyance system that is integral to a street or sidewalk.
Stormwater    A physical device, site feature, or construction technique intended to eliminate
Control       or reduce contact or exposure of pollutants to stormwater or remove pollutants
Measure       from stormwater prior to discharge from the measure.
Stormwater
Retention     See "Retention Pond."
Pond
Stormwater    The surface flow of water resulting from precipitation in any form and occurring
Runoff        immediately after rainfall or melting.
Stream        As used in the riparian buffer standards, a body of concentrated flowing water in
              a natural low area or natural channel on the land surface.
              For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Streams that have regular flow only
Stream,       at certain times of the year as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Intermittent  and North Carolina Division of Water Quality. Wake County soil survey maps can be
              used for planning purposes to identify the impact of Intermittent Streams, but
              these features must be qualified on the ground following the guidelines set above
              prior to approval of new developments.
              For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Streams that have regular flow only
Stream,       at certain times of the year as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Perennial     and North Carolina Division of Water Quality. USGS 7.5-minute topographic maps
              can be used for planning purposes to identify the impact of Perennial Streams,
              but these features must be qualified on the ground following the guidelines set
              above prior to approval of new developments.
Streamer      A long, narrow strip of material used as a decoration or symbol.
Street        A publicly dedicated and maintained thoroughfare more than 20 feet in width.
Street Bulb   A street intersection where one or more corners is rounded into a circle similar
Out           to a cul-de-sac turnaround.
Street Center A line lying halfway between the two edges of a street right-of-way, or in some
Line          other location as determined by the Planning Director.
Street        A location where one or more planned or existing streets join together.
Connection
Street        A measure of the overall connectedness of the streets in a street network that is
Connectivity  largely control by individual block length.
              A selected speed used by an engineer to determine the various geometric features
Street Design of a street. The design speed should be a logical one with respect to the
Speed         topography, anticipated operating speed, the adjacent land use, and the
              functional classification of the roadway.
Street        A strip or extent of land abutting and extending along a street.
Frontage
Street Grade  The magnitude of a street's incline or decline over a specified lateral distance.
Street
Intersection  The portion of a street proximate to an intersection.
Approach
Street        See "Street Bulb Out."
Knuckle
Street Light  Exterior illumination located within or adjacent to a street right-of-way and
              intended to illuminate the street and sidewalk.
Street Stub   A nonpermanent dead end street intended to be extended in conjunction with
              development on adjacent lots or sites.
Street Tree   See "Tree, Street."
Street Width  The horizontal distance between parallel right-of-way lines of a street measured
              at right angles to such lines.
Street, Alley A local access street used for service access to the back or side of properties
              otherwise abutting on a street.
Street,
Arterial      A street whose principal function is to carry large volumes of traffic at higher
(Principal or speeds through the county or from one part of the Town to another.
Minor)
Street,
Collector     A street whose principal function is to carry traffic between local streets and
(Major or     arterial streets but that may also provide direct access to abutting properties.
Minor)
              Commercial streets provide access to abutting commercial property, circulate
Street,       traffic in commercial areas and provide direct access to off-street parking
Commercial    facilities. Commercial streets have at least two traffic lanes with provisions
              for curb parking if desirable and feasible.
Street, Cul-  A local access street having access from one end only and having a circular or
de-Sac        other expanded surface for turning around at the closed end.
Street, Dead- A street that terminates with a street stub or vehicular turn around.
End
Street,       A local access street that parallels and is adjacent to expressways or arterial
Frontage      streets for the purposes of providing access to abutting properties and
              separation of traffic seeking such access from through-traffic.
              A street right-of-way dedicated for a new street by a developer along the
Street, Half  developer's perimeter property line in an amount equal to only one-half of the
              total right-of-way width required by this Ordinance. Dedication of
              a half street presumes future dedication of a corresponding amount of right-of-
             way from adjoining land on the other side of the right-of-way in order to provide
              the total right-of-way required for a proposed street.
Street,       Those streets used or to be used primarily to carry traffic and having few points
Interstate    of access and no intersections at grade and designated or to be designated as
              interstates or expressways on the Transportation Plan.
Street, Local Streets which are used primarily for access to abutting properties.
Street,       A vehicular travel way not dedicated or offered for dedication to the Town or the
Private       NCDOT as a public street.
              Residential streets provide access to abutting residential property and
Street,       discourage through-traffic movements by design as short loops, curvilinear
Residential   streets or cul-de-sacs. These streets have two traffic lanes and may have on-
              street parking.
Street,       A street, its right-of-way, and all street-related infrastructure that is owned,
State-        operated, and maintained by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
Maintained
Streetscape   Landscaping provided on individual lots abutting arterial and collector streets,
Buffer        but located outside the street right-of-way.
Structural    A planting medium that can be compacted to pavement design and installation
Soil          requirements while permitting root growth.
              An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by man, including
              but without limitation to buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks, earth
              formations and overhead transmission lines.
Structure     For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: For floodplain management purposes, a
              walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a gas or liquid
              storage tank, or other man- made facilities or infrastructures that are
              principally above ground.
Stump         As used in the riparian buffer standards, the diameter of a tree measured at six
Diameter      inches above the ground surface level.
Subdivider    A person, firm, or corporation having a proprietary interest in land and acting
              to subdivide that land under the applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
              As used in this ordinance means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into
              two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or
              building development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all
              divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in
              existing streets; but the following shall not be included within this definition
              provided, however, that any subdivision document or plat to be recorded pursuant
              to such exclusions shall have the notation of "No Approval Required" and the
              signature of the Planning Director or their designated agent before filing in the
              office of the Wake County Register of Deeds. A "Subdivision" shall not include
              the following:
              1.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots
              where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal
              to or exceed the standards of the town as shown in this Ordinance.
Subdivision   2.   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no street
              right-of-way dedication is involved.
              3.   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the widening or
              opening of streets.
              4.   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no greater
              than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-way or
              easement dedication is involved and where the resultant lots equal or exceed the
              standards set forth in this Ordinance.
              5.   The trading or exchanging of portions of previously platted and recorded
              properties that are contiguous and that necessitate the creation of parcels not
              conforming to the requirements of this Ordinance provided that a statement is
              placed on the plat to be recorded to the effect that such parcels are not created
              as individual building lots and are not approved as such and that no building
              permit shall be issued for construction on such parcels.
              As used in Section
Subsidiary    7.5, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation, an affiliate that is directly, or indirectly
              through one or more intermediaries, controlled by another person.
              For the purposes of Section
Substantial   3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Damage of any origin sustained by a
Damage        structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
              condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
              the damage occurred. See definition of Substantial Improvement.
              For the purposes of the FHO, damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
              any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
              damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
Substantial   structure before the damage occurred. Substantial damage also means flood-related
Damage        damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period
              for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the
              average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure before
              the damage occurred.
              For the purposes of Section
              3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Any repair, reconstruction,
              rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which
              equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
              construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
Substantial   incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
Improvement   term does not, however, include either:
              (a)   Any project of improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
              state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
              identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
              necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
              (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will
              not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
              For the purposes of the standards in Section
              4.3.4.S, Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Substantial Modification means
              the collocation of antenna and related wireless telecommunications equipment on
              an existing telecommunications tower that necessitates replacement of the
Substantial   existing tower, structural additions to the existing tower that increase its
Modification  height or the length of protrusions from the tower, or increases in the size of
              the equipment compound by an amount specified in Section 160D-931 of the North
              Carolina General Statutes. Collocations requiring structural modifications are
              reviewed and decided in accordance with the procedures for a major collocation.
              Collocations involving changes to an existing telecommunications tower or
              equipment
              compound beyond those identified as "substantial modifications" in Section 160D-
             931 in the North Carolina General Statutes are reviewed and decided in accordance
              with the procedures for a major telecommunications tower.
Substantially For the purposes of Section
Improved      3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: Where the repair, reconstruction,
Existing      rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or
Manufactured  exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair,
Home Park or  reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Subdivision
Superior      The Superior Court for Wake County, North Carolina.
Court
Sustainable   An incentive or reward, often in the form of additional allowable residential
Development   density or building height that is offered to an applicant proposing to include
Incentive     sustainable development practices.
Sustainable   One or more development features voluntarily provided by an applicant or
Development   developer as a means of promoting sustainable development and/or taking advantage
Practice      of available sustainable development practice incentives.
Swale         A depression in the land that collects stormwater runoff and conveys it to
              another location.
Swimming      An above- or below-ground structure that is filled with water and used for
Pool/Hot Tub  swimming or relaxing.
Synthetic     A multi-layered application of polystyrene, fiberglass mesh, and a top coat of
Stucco        cement.
 
DEFINITIONS
T
Tangent            A straight line or plane that touches a curve or curved surface at a point, but
                   if extended does not cross it at that point.
                   An establishment whose principal business activity, either in terms of
Tattoo and         operation or as held out to the public, is the practice of one or more of the
Piercing           following:
Establishment      1.   Placing of designs, letters, figures, symbols, or other marks upon or
                   under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result in the
                   permanent coloration of the skin by means of the use
                      of needles or other instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin; or
                  2.   Performance of body modification including puncturing or cutting a part of
                   the human body so as to create an opening in which jewelry may be worn.
                   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building performance
                   standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of
                   Federal Regulations at Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended
                   for use primarily by State and local officials responsible for interpreting and
                   enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development community, such as
                   design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of
Technical Bulletin existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not
& Technical Fact   create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying with
Sheet              the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
                   It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
                   guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or
                   community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design
                   professionals should contact the community officials to determine whether more
                   restrictive State or local regulations apply to the building or site in
                   question. All applicable standards of the State or local building code must
                   also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
Technical Review   A group of town staff members and others associated with development review in
Committee          the town.
                   A vertical projection, typically comprised of steel, designed to support
                   antenna and associated wireless telecommunications equipment for the purpose of
Telecommunications sending and receiving wireless telecommunications signals. Utility poles or
Tower              other vertical projections intended for a purpose other than provision of
                   wireless telecommunications services are not considered to be
                   telecommunications towers.
                   A telecommunications tower and associated wireless telecommunications equipment
                   that is integrated as an architectural feature into an existing structure (such
Telecommunications as a steeple, bell tower, clock tower, silo, etc.), or that is designed to
Tower, Concealed   conceal the presence of the tower, antennas, and related wireless
                   telecommunications equipment in a manner so that the purpose of the tower is
                   obscured.
                   The construction or installation of a new telecommunications tower with a
Telecommunications height of 30 feet or more above the adjacent pre-construction grade and
Tower, Major       associated equipment, including the equipment compound, access, electrical
                   service, and other related facilities.
Telecommunications The construction or installation of a new telecommunications tower with a
Tower, Minor       height of less than 30 feet above the adjacent pre-construction grade or that
                   meets the definition of a concealed telecommunications tower.
Temperature        Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in
Controlled         or appliance.
                   An emergency shelter or other structure established to serve as a temporary
Temporary Dwelling domicile while an existing principal residence is constructed, repaired, or
                   located.
Temporary Real     A temporary commercial establishment, typically associated with a residential
Estate Office      subdivision or building that serves as a base of operations for persons selling
                   real estate or for potential buyers to inspect model dwelling units.
                   As used in the riparian buffer standards, a road constructed temporarily for
Temporary Road     equipment access to build or replace hydraulic conveyance structures such as
                   bridges, culverts, pipes or water dependent structures, or to maintain public
                   traffic during construction.
Temporary Use      A permit authorizing the operation of a temporary use, structure, or special
Permit             event.
Temporary Wireless A portable, self-contained wireless facility that provides wireless
Facility           telecommunications services on a temporary or emergency basis. A temporary
                   wireless facility may include a generator to provide power to the facility.
Terrace            A level, surfaced area or platform next to a building used as a gathering area.
Tertiary Building  See "Wall, Tertiary."
Wall
Text Amendment     See "UDO Text Amendment."
                   A building, or part thereof, which contains an assembly hall with or without
                   stage which may be equipped with curtains and permanent stage scenery or
Theatre            mechanical equipment adaptable to the showing of plays, operas, motion
                   pictures, performances, spectacles, and similar forms of entertainment.
                   Theatres that also serve meals at tables prior to or during a performance are
                   specialty eating establishments.
Through Lot        "See Lot, Through."
Tilt-Up Concrete   A reinforced concrete panel used to form the exterior walls of a building.
Panel
Tool/Storage Shed  An accessory structure with or without electricity used for the keeping of
                   tools and equipment or general storage purposes.
                   For the purposes of Section
Top of Bank        3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District: The landward edge of the stream
                   channel during high water, bankfull conditions at the point where water begins
                   to overflow onto the floodplain.
Town               The Town of Zebulon, North Carolina and its extraterritorial planning
                   jurisdiction.
                   As used in Section
                   6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, an analysis and assessment, conducted by
Traffic Impact     a qualified professional that assesses the effects that a discretionary
Analysis           development proposal's traffic will have on the transportation network in a
                   community or portion thereof. Traffic impact studies vary in their range of
                   detail and complexity depending on the type, size and location of the proposed
                   development.
                   A study conducted to evaluate the capacity and safety impacts on the
Transportation     transportation system from a proposed development and identify necessary
Impact Analysis    improvements or management strategies to mitigate negative impacts. Such
                   studies shall be performed by a licensed professional engineer in accordance
                   with the Procedures Manual and this Ordinance.
                   A study conducted to evaluate the capacity and safety impacts on the
Transportation     transportation system from a proposed development and identify necessary
Impact Analysis    improvements or management strategies to mitigate negative impacts. Such
                   studies shall be performed by a licensed professional engineer in accordance
                   with the Procedures Manual and this Ordinance.
                   A portable structure built on a chassis and towed by an automobile that is
                   designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
Travel Trailer     vacation uses. When equipped for the road, it shall have a body width not
                   exceeding eight feet and a body length not exceeding 32 feet. A travel trailer
                   does not have its own source of locomotion.
Tree               As used in the riparian buffer standards, a woody plant with a DBH equal to or
                   exceeding five inches or a stump diameter exceeding six inches.
Tree Canopy        The layer of vegetation formed by the crowns of mature trees.
Tree Canopy Cover  See "Tree Canopy."
Tree Pit           A depression in or adjacent to a sidewalk intended for the placement of a
                   street tree and associated ground cover.
Tree Protection    The portion of a lot or site with existing trees located inside tree protection
Area               fencing.
Tree Protection    Fencing or other barrier provided to protect trees to be retained from damage
Fencing            or encroachment during the development process.
Tree Retention     The portion of a lot or site with existing trees to be retained during and
Area               after development.
Tree Topping       The removal of the central leader and primary upper branches of a tree.
Tree, Canopy       A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 40 feet or more
                   with a minimum mature crown width of 30 feet.
Tree, Drought      A species of tree that is capable of surviving in an environment with no
Tolerant           artificial irrigation and with only limited amounts of rain.
Tree, Evergreen    A woody plant with one or more stems that does not lose the majority of its
                   leaves during winter or dormancy.
Tree, Hardwood     A deciduous tree with broad leaves that produces fruit or a nut and goes
                   dormant during winter months.
Tree, Native       Trees that have originated from or occur naturally without being introduced in
                   a particular area.
                   A tree that is present prior to the commencement of development or land
Tree, Protected    disturbance that is required or intended to remain after completion of
                   development or land disturbing activities.
Tree, Shade        A tree with a crown that provides shade to the surface area within a parking
                   lot and associated parking spaces.
                   A canopy or understory tree planted or existing within or along either side of
Tree, Street       a street right-of-way. Understory trees are typically used in locations where
                   there are overhead utilities, sidewalks, or underground utilities proximate to
                   the tree planting area.
Tree, Understory   A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 15 to 35 feet.
Trellis            A framework of light wooden or metal bars, chiefly used as a support for fruit
                   trees or climbing plants.
                   As used in Section
Trip               6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, a single or one-directional travel
                   movement with either the origin or destination of the trip inside the study
                   site.
                   As used in Section
Trip Generation    6.13, Transportation Impact Analysis, an estimate of the number of vehicle
                   trips that will be generated due to the new development, which is calculated
                   based on the type and amount of land
                   uses in the proposed development and professionally accepted trip generation
                  rates for each such land use. Trip generation may be expressed on an average
                   daily basis or average peak hour (a.m., p.m. or both).
                   A single detached dwelling on one lot that contains three dwelling units. The
Triplex            units may be located side by side in a horizontal configuration or stacked one
                   above the other in a vertical configuration, sharing common vertical walls or
                   horizontal floors and ceilings.
Truck or Freight   A use where trucks, trailers, and cargo are stored, where loading and unloading
Terminal           is carried on regularly, and where minor maintenance of these types of vehicles
                   is performed.
                   An establishment typically engaged in fuel sales that serve commercial truck
Truck Stop         drivers. The use may provide food, maintenance services, overnight parking,
                   showering rooms, laundry facilities, basic convenience retail items and other
                   services related to the use.
Turret             A cylindrical architectural feature typically located at the corner or near the
                   primary entrance of a building.
 
DEFINITIONS
U
UDO Text Amendment         A change to the language of this Ordinance.
                           A container used for the storage of gas, liquid,
                           powder, or other substance that is all or partially
Underground Storage Tank   below grade. Pipes, pumping equipment, and
                           ventilation features are considered part of an
                           underground storage tank.
Understory Tree            See "Tree, Understory."
Unlicensed Vehicle         See "Inoperable/Unlicensed Vehicle."
                           Multi-family residential dwelling units located on
                           the second or higher floors of a building with some
Upper-Story Residential    form of nonresidential use on the first or ground
                           floor. Dwelling units may be configured as
                           apartments or condominiums.
Urban Forest               A densely wooded area located in a city or town.
                           A portion of an urban or metropolitan area that is
                           significantly warmer than its surroundings due to
Urban Heat Island          additional paving, building mass, and lack of shade.
                           The temperature difference usually is larger at
                           night than during the day, and is most apparent when
                           winds are weak.
                           A private common open space area located within an
Urban Open Space Set-Aside urban or higher density area that is intended to
                           facilitate gathering of people, such as an outdoor
                           dining area, plaza, or atrium.
                           A walk-in clinic or medical facility focused on the
Urgent Care Facility       delivery of ambulatory care for injuries or
                           illnesses requiring immediate care, but not serious
                           enough to require an hospital emergency department.
                           A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water as a
                           combination of both land and water and designed for
                           the recreational use and enjoyment of residents of
                           the proposed development, not including streets or
                           off-street parking areas. Not more than one half of
                           the required usable open space may be areas covered
                           by water. Usable open space shall be substantially
                           free of structures but may contain such improvements
                           as are appropriate for the benefit of residents. A
                           maximum of five percent of the area designated as
Usable Open Space          usable open space may be covered by structures
                           clearly ancillary to the recreational use of the
                           space. Except for such structures, all usable open
                           space shall be unobstructed except for plants, lawn
                           furniture, swimming pools, terraces, walkways, play
                           equipment, etc., so arranged to provide for the free
                           movement of the people within the space. No portion
                           of any such usable open space shall be located in
                           any required yard area adjacent to a public street.
                           Parking areas, vehicle drives and storage areas
                           shall not be included in the calculation of usable
                           open space.
                           The purpose for which land or structures thereon is
Use                        designed, arranged or intended to be occupied or
                           used, or for which it is occupied, maintained,
                           rented, or leased.
                           A structure that is designed for and used to carry
                           cables, wires, lighting facilities, or small
Utility Pole               wireless facilities for telephone, cable television,
                           electricity, lighting, or wireless telecommunication
                           services that is located outside the public right-
                           of-way.
Utility Pole, Public       A utility pole owned, leased, or operated by the
                           Town that is located in the public right-of-way.
                           Infrastructure services providing regional or
                           community-wide service that normally entail the
Utility, Major             construction of new buildings or structures such as
                           water towers, waste treatment plants, potable water
                           treatment plants, natural gas citygates, and solid
                           waste facilities.
                           Infrastructure services that need to be located in
                           or near the neighborhood or use type where the
                           service is provided. Examples of minor utilities
Utility, Minor             include water and sewage pump stations, storm water
                           retention and detention facilities, telephone
                           exchanges, electrical substations, and surface
                           transportation stops such as bus stops and park-and-
                           ride facilities.
 
DEFINITIONS
V
                                A retail establishment primarily
                                dedicated towards the sale of tobacco,
Vape, Tobacco, and CBD Shop     tobacco related products, vaping related
                                products, cannabis products or cannabis
                                related products or similar inhaled
                                products and devices.
                                A grant of relief from the requirements
                                of this Ordinance. A variance may grant
                                relief from special flood hazard area
                                standards or other zoning or subdivision
                                standards in this Ordinance.
                                For the purposes of Section
Variance                        3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO)
                                District: A grant of relief to a person
                                from the requirements of this part which
                                permits construction in a manner
                                otherwise prohibited by this part where
                                specific enforcement would result in
                                unnecessary hardship.
                                For the purposes of Section
                                3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO)
Vegetative Cover                District: Any native or non-invasive
                                vegetative growth or other material that
                                renders the soil surface stable against
                                accelerated erosion.
                                An off-street parking space or parking
Vehicular Use Area              lot along with associated drive aisles
                                and means on ingress or egress.
                                The organization of an individual
                                building facade into a base, middle, and
                                cap configuration where there are
Vertical Facade Modulation      discernable differences in exterior
                                materials, building wall planes, or
                                architectural detailing along the facade
                                from the grade to the top of the
                                building.
                                A two or more story development that
                                includes residential and nonresidential
                                development. It is typical for
Vertically-Integrated Mixed-Use vertically-oriented mixed-use
Building                        development to include residential
                                development on the upper floors and
                                nonresidential development on the ground
                                or street level.
                                A right pursuant to North Carolina
                                General Statutes Section 160D-108 to
Vested Right                    undertake and complete the development
                                and use of property under the terms and
                                conditions of an approved site-specific
                                development plan.
                                An authorization granted by Board of
                                Commissioners to an approved site-
                                specific development plan that protects
Vested Right Certificate        the development from the need to comply
                                with some (but not all) regulatory
                                changes that are adopted by the town
                                during the period which the development
                                is vested.
                                A facility for the care and treatment of
                                animals, including household pets and
Veterinary Clinic               larger domesticated animals. Such
                                facilities may be entirely indoors or
                                may have both indoor and outdoor
                                components.
                                A breach, infringement, or transgression
                                of a law or requirement in this
                                Ordinance or a permit or other
                                development approval.
                                For the purposes of Section
                                3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO)
                                District: The failure of a structure or
Violation                       other development to be fully compliant
                                with the community's floodplain
                                management regulations. A structure or
                                other development without the elevation
                                certificate, other certifications, or
                                other evidence of compliance required in
                                Articles IV and V is presumed to be in
                                violation until a time as that
                                documentation is provided.
Visually Transparent            Glass or glazing that does not obstruct
                                the view into a structure.
 
DEFINITIONS
W
Wall Offset                           A projection or recess located in or
                                      along a building wall.
Wall Pack                             An exterior lighting device that is
                                      flush-mounted on a vertical wall surface.
Wall Plane                            The exterior surface of a building wall
                                      relative to the lot line it abuts.
                                      The largest portion of a building wall in
Wall Plane, Primary                   terms of area on a single building facade
                                      that maintains a uniform distance from
                                      the abutting lot line.
                                      The entire surface area, including
Wall, Building                        windows and doors, of an exterior wall of
                                      a building.
                                      A building wall that is partially or
                                      completely covered with greenery that
Wall, Green                           includes a growing medium, such as soil,
                                      water or a substrate and an integrated
                                      water delivery system.
                                      A building facade that rises above the
Wall, Parapet                         roof level, typically obscuring a gable
                                      or flat roof as well as any roof-mounted
                                      equipment.
                                      The architectural front facade of the
Wall, Primary                         building that faces the street from which
                                      the building is addressed.
                                      Exterior building walls that correspond
                                      to the side or rear of a building that
Wall, Secondary                       are visible from public recreation lands
                                      or streets other than the street that the
                                      building is addressed from.
Wall, Tertiary                        Building walls that are not primary or
                                      secondary building walls.
                                      An industrial use engaged in distribution
Warehouse, Distribution               of manufactured products, supplies, and
                                      equipment.
                                      A use engaged in storage of manufactured
                                      products, supplies, and equipment
Warehouse, Storage                    excluding bulk storage of materials that
                                      are flammable or explosive or that
                                      present hazards or conditions commonly
                                      recognized as offensive.
                                      Uses where solid wastes are composted
Waste Composting                      using composting technology. Accessory
                                      uses may include offices and repackaging
                                      and transshipment of by-products.
                                      The waste-related services use category
                                      includes use types that receive solid or
                                      liquid wastes from others for disposal on
                                      the site or for transfer to another
                                      location, uses that collect sanitary
Waste-Related Services                wastes, or uses that manufacture or
                                      produce goods or energy from the
                                      composting of organic material or
                                      processing of scrap or waste material.
                                      This use category also includes use types
                                      that receive wastes from others.
                                      Any structure or facility which cannot be
                                      used for its intended purpose unless it
                                      is in close proximity to water, such as a
Water Dependent Structure             boat dock. The term does not include
                                      ancillary parking or boat storage
                                      facilities, manufacture, sales, or
                                      service facilities.
                                      The entire land area contributing surface
Water Supply Watershed                drainage to a designated water supply
                                      reservoir.
                                      The height, in relation to mean sea
Water Surface Elevation               level, of floods of various magnitudes
                                      and frequencies in the floodplains of
                                      riverine areas.
                                      The entire land area contributing
Watershed                             stormwater drainage to a specific point
                                      (i.e., receiving streams and
                                      floodplains).
                                      The area adjacent to a water supply
                                      intake or reservoir where risk associated
                                      with pollution is greater than from the
                                      remaining portions of the watershed. The
                                      critical area is defined as extending one
                                      mile from the normal pool elevation of a
Watershed Critical Area               water supply reservoir or to the ridge
                                      line of the watershed (whichever comes
                                      first); or one mile upstream from the
                                      intake located directly in the stream or
                                      river (run of the river), or the ridge
                                      line of the watershed (whichever comes
                                      first).
                                      A plan that documents industries that are
                                      located within watershed boundaries that
Watershed Management Plan             use, store or manufacture chemicals that
                                      could potentially pose a threat to water
                                      quality and the response procedures for
                                      handling spills and/or discharges.
                                      An approval to execute proposed
                                      development or land-disturbing activity
Watershed Protection Permit           in proximity to a water supply watershed,
                                      subject to protection measures intended
                                      to preserve surface water quality.
Weekend Day                           Saturday or Sunday.
                                      Wetlands either with or without a surface
                                      or subsurface connection to a larger body
Wetlands (including 404 Wetlands)     of water under the permitting
                                      jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of
                                      Engineers.
                                      Establishments or places of business
                                      primarily engaged in selling merchandise
                                      to retailers; to industrial, commercial,
Wholesale Sales                       institutional, or professional business
                                      users; or to other wholesalers. Wholesale
                                      establishment does not include
                                      contractor's materials or office or
                                      retail sales uses.
                                      A power generating use that converts
                                      kinetic energy from the wind into
                                      mechanical energy through the use of a
                                      wind turbine. The mechanical energy can
Wind Energy Conversion                then be used to power on-site equipment
                                      or an electrical generator to create
                                      electricity for on-site or off-site use.
                                      Such uses may include batteries for the
                                      storage of electrical energy.
                                      Elements necessary for the function of a
                                      wireless telecommunications facility,
Wireless Telecommunications Equipment including, but not limited to: equipment
                                      cabinets or racks, computers, wireless
                                      signal processors, telephone interfaces,
                                      GPS
                                      equipment, power supplies, batteries,
                                      climate control devices, cabling, cable
                                      mounting devices, ice shields or bridges,
                                     grounding systems, and similar features.
                                      Wireless telecommunications equipment
                                      does not include antennas or antenna
                                      support structures.
                                      A facility dedicated to the broadcast
                                      and/or receiving of wireless
                                      telecommunications signals for the
                                      purpose of communication, public safety,
                                      or data transfer. Wireless
                                      telecommunications facilities consist of
                                      one or more antenna, cabling or other
Wireless Telecommunications Facility  means to send to telecommunications
                                      signals to associated equipment, a
                                      support structure, and a dedicated power
                                      source. Wireless telecommunications
                                      facilities include the following:
                                      telecommunications towers (concealed,
                                      major, minor), collocations (major and
                                      minor), small wireless facilities, and
                                      temporary wireless facilities.
                                      Any services, using licensed or
                                      unlicensed wireless spectrum, including
Wireless Telecommunications Services  the use of telephone, data transmission,
                                      Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or
                                      mobile, provided to the public.
                                      As used in Section
                                      7.5, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation, days
Working Days                          exclusive of Saturday and Sunday during
                                      which weather conditions or soil
                                      conditions permit land-disturbing
                                      activity to be undertaken.
                                      A writ of superior court to call up the
Writ of Certiorari                    records of an inferior court or a body
                                      acting in a quasi-judicial capacity.
 
 
DEFINITIONS
X
Xeriscape The use of plant materials and planting techniques that conserve
          water.
 
 
DEFINITIONS
Y
                    An open space on the same lot with a building or group of
                    buildings which open space lies between the building or
Yard                group of buildings and the nearest lot line and is occupied
                    and unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings or
                    structures except by permitted accessory buildings or uses.
                    A temporary sale of used goods conducted by the resident of
Yard or Garage Sale a dwelling. Yard or garage sales may include used goods
                    from more than one family.
                    An institutional or not-for-profit establishment that
Youth Center        provides recreational and various leisure activities to
                    persons under 18 years of age.
 
 
DEFINITIONS
Z
                         A permit used to ensure proposed development is
Zoning Compliance Permit consistent with all requirements of this Ordinance as
                         well as any conditions of approval.
Zoning Map               See "Official Zoning Map."
                         An application for an amendment to the Official Zoning
Zoning Map Amendment     Map. It includes applications for establishing an
                         initial zoning designation following annexation.
 
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021; Ord. 2022-14,
passed 10-4- 2021; Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2022-20, passed 10-4-
2021; Ord. 2022-49, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2024-08, passed 9-11-2023)
ARTICLE 10 - REVIEWING AGENCIES
Article 10 - Reviewing Agencies
10:   Reviewing Agencies
10.1.   Overview
10.1.1.   Board of Adjustment (BOA)
10.1.2.   Board of Commissioners (BOC)
10.1.3.   Planning Board
10.1.4.   Technical Review Committee (TRC); and
10.1.5.   Town Staff, Comprised of the Building Inspector, Planning Director,
and Town Manager
10.2.   Board of Adjustment (BOA)
10.2.1.   Powers and Duties
10.2.2.   Composition
10.2.3.   Rules of Procedure
10.3.   Board of Commissioners
10.3.1.   Powers and Duties
10.3.2.   Conflict of Interest
10.4.   Planning Board
10.4.1.   Powers and Duties
10.4.2.   Composition
10.4.3.   Rules of Procedure
10.5.   Technical Review Committee (TRC)
10.5.1.   Powers and Duties
10.5.2.   Composition
10.5.3.   Rules of Procedure
10.6.   Building Inspector
10.6.1.   Powers and Duties
10.7.   Planning Director
10.7.1.   Powers and Duties
10.8   Town Manager
10.8.1   Powers and Duties
10.1.   OVERVIEW
As identified in
Article 2: Procedures, the following review authorities have powers and
responsibilities for administering this Ordinance, especially with regard to
procedures related to development applications.
10.1.1.   Board of Adjustment (BOA)
10.1.2.   Board of Commissioners (BOC)
10.1.3.   Planning Board
10.1.4.   Technical Review Committee (TRC)
10.1.5.   Town Staff, Comprised of the Building Inspector, Planning Director,
and Town Manager
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.2.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT (BOA)
The Board of Adjustment is hereby established in accordance with Section 160D-
302 of the North Carolina General Statutes. The BOA shall have the following
powers and duties, composition, and rules of procedure under this Ordinance:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.2.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Application Review and Decision. To review and decide applications for:
      1.   Appeals of decisions by town staff members deciding applications
under this Ordinance; and
      2.   Variances.
   B.   Other Powers and Duties. To exercise other powers and authority
provided to it by the Board of Commissioners, this Ordinance, or state law.
   C.   Watershed Review Board. The Board of Adjustment shall serve as the
Watershed Review Board and review and decide variance requests from the
watershed protection standards in accordance with Section
2.2.21, Variance.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.2.2.   Composition
   A.   Membership. The BOA shall consist of five regular members.
   B.   Residence Location and Appointment.
      1.   Four members shall be citizens and residents of the town and shall
be appointed by the Town of Zebulon Board of Commissioners;
      2.   One member shall be a citizen of Wake County and reside outside the
town but within the extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries of the town and
shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Wake County.
         a.   If despite good faith efforts, enough residents of the extra
territorial planning area cannot be found to fill the seats reserved for
residents of the area, then the Wake County Board of Commissioners may appoint
other residents of the county (including residents of the town) to fill these
seats.
         b.   If the county Board of Commissioners fails to make these
appointments within 90 days after receiving a resolution from the town Board of
Commissioners requesting that they be made, the town Board of Commissioners may
make them.
      3.   If a regular or alternate in-town member moves outside the town, or
if an extra-territorial area regular or alternate moves outside the planning
jurisdiction, that shall constitute a resignation from the BOA, effective upon
the date a replacement is appointed.
   C.   Alternate Members.
      1.   In addition to regular members, the BOA shall have two alternate
members.
      2.   One alternate member shall be shall be a citizen and resident of the
town and shall be appointed by the town Board of Commissioners.
      3.   One member shall be a citizen of Wake County and reside outside the
town but within the extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries of the town and
shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Wake County.
      4.   Alternate members shall be appointed for the same term, at the same
time, and in the same manner as regular members.
      5.   Each alternate member, while attending any regular or special
meeting of the BOA and serving in the absence of any regular member, shall
exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
      6.   Town alternate members shall only replace regular town members and
extraterritorial alternate members shall only replace regular extraterritorial
members.
   D.   Member Terms.
      1.   Board of Adjustment members shall be appointed for three-year
staggered terms expiring on June 30.
      2.   Members may continue to serve until their successors have been
appointed.
      3.   There shall be no term limits for those serving on the BOA.
   E.   Vacancies. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expired terms
shall be filled as they occur for the unexpired remainder of the term either by
the town Board of Commissioners or the County Commissioners of Wake County,
depending upon the area represented.
   F.   Officers.
      1.   The BOA shall elect a Chair and Vice-Chair and create and fill such
other offices as it may determine. The term of the Chair and other officers
shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection.
      2.   Election of officers shall take place at the first meeting of the
Board following the beginning of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.2.3.   Rules of Procedure
   A.   Generally. The BOA shall adopt rules for the transaction of its
business and shall keep a record of its members' attendance and its
resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a
public record.
   B.   Compensation. Members of the BOA shall receive no compensation for
their services.
   C.   Schedule.
      1.   The BOA shall establish a regular meeting time and place.
      2.   Unless there is no business to be conducted, the BOA shall hold at
least one meeting monthly.
      3.   The BOA may elect to change and/or delete meeting dates, times and/
or locations of its regular meetings.
   D.   Open Meetings. All meetings and hearings shall be open to the public.
   E.   Official Record.
      1.   The BOA shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question and the absence or failure of any member to
vote.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided by law, all records and minutes shall be
public record.
   F.   Quorum.
      1.   No official business of the BOA may be conducted without a quorum
present.
      2.   A quorum shall be defined as the number of members equal to four-
fifths of the regular board membership, excluding vacant seats.
   G.   Voting.
      1.   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the BOA members shall be
necessary to grant a variance.
      2.   A simple majority of the BOA members shall be required to decide any
other matter.
      3.   Members who are recused from voting due to a conflict of interest
shall not be counted towards a simple or super majority.
      4.   The members appointed to the BOA by the Board of Wake County
Commissioners as representatives of the extraterritorial area outside the town
shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with the other members of the
BOA regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the town or within
the extraterritorial area.
   H.   Attendance. Faithful attendance at meetings of the BOA is considered a
prerequisite to continued membership, and the appointing authority may remove
and replace any member continually delinquent in his duty to attend.
      1.   Regular members of the Board of Adjustment may be removed by the
Board of Commissioners at any time for failure to attend three consecutive
meetings or for failure to attend 70 percent or more of the meetings within any
12-month period or for any other good cause related to performance of duties.
      2.   Alternate members may be removed for repeated failure to attend or
participate in meetings when requested to do so in accordance with regularly
established procedures.
   I.   Conflict of Interest.
      1.   A member of the BOA shall not vote, nor participate in any manner
that would violate an affected person's constitutional rights to an impartial
decision maker; including, but are not limited to:
         a.   A member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that
is not susceptible to change;
         b.   Undisclosed ex-parte communication;
         c.   A close family, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person; or
         d.   Financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
      2.   If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that
member does not recuse theirself, the remaining members shall by majority vote
rule on the objection.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
10.3.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
In order to exercise the authority granted to the Board of Commissioners by
state law, the Board of Commissioners shall have the following powers and
duties under this Ordinance:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.3.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Application Review and Decision. To initiate, review, and decide
applications for:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan Amendments;
      2.   Development Agreements;
      3.   Planned Developments;
      4.   Special Use Permits;
      5.   UDO Text Amendments;
      6.   Vested Rights Determinations; and
      7.   Zoning Map Amendments.
   B.   Other Powers and Duties.
      1.   To approve, by resolution, a schedule of fees governing:
         a.   Applications for permits and other development approval reviews
under this ordinance; and
         b.   Civil penalties for violations of this Ordinance.
      2.   To take any other action not delegated to the Planning Board, BOA,
or town staff, as the Board of Commissioners may deem desirable and necessary
to implement the provisions of this Ordinance.
10.3.2   Conflict of Interest.
In accordance with North Carolina General Statutes 160D-109(a), a governing
board member shall not vote on any legislative decision regarding a development
regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter where the outcome of the matter
being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A governing board member
shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject
to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with
whom the member has a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
10.4.   PLANNING BOARD
The Planning Board is hereby established in accordance with Section 160D-301 of
the North Carolina General Statutes. The Planning Board shall have the
following powers and duties, composition, and rules of procedure under this
Ordinance:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
10.4.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Recommendation Authority. To make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners on the following applications:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan Amendments;
      2.   Development Agreements;
      3.   Planned Developments;
      4.   Special Use Permit concept plans;
      5.   UDO Text Amendments; and
      6.   Zoning Map Amendments.
   B.   Other Powers and Duties. The Planning Board shall have the following
other powers and duties:
      1.   To make studies of the town's planning jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      2.   To determine objectives to be sought in the development of the town;
      3.   To prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
      4.   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures, and other means for carrying out plans that the Board of
Commissioners may direct;
      5.   To advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the use and
amendment of means for carrying out plans;
      6.   To exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
      7.   To perform any other related duties that the Board of Commissioners
may direct;
      8.   To conduct such public meetings as may be required to gather
information necessary for the drafting, establishment, and maintenance of
adopted or proposed plans and before recommending any such plans to the Board
of Commissioners; and
      9.   To promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, and to that end, publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and may employ such other means of publicity and education as
it may determine.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.4.2.   Composition
   A.   Membership. The Planning Board shall consist of seven members.
   B.   Residence Location and Appointment.
      1.   Five members shall be citizens and residents of the town and shall
be appointed by the town of Zebulon Board of Commissioners;
      2.   Two members shall be citizens of Wake County and reside outside the
town but within the extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries of the town and
shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Wake County.
         a.   If despite good faith efforts, enough residents of the extra
territorial planning area cannot be found to fill the seats reserved for
residents of the area, then the Wake County Board of Commissioners may appoint
other residents of the county (including residents of the town) to fill these
seats.
         b.   If the County Board of Commissioners fails to make these
appointments within 90 days after receiving a resolution from the Board of
Commissioners of the town requesting that they be made, the Board of
Commissioners of the town may make them.
      3.   Members of the Planning Board shall hold no other official municipal
government position except on a zoning board, zoning board of adjustment or
housing authority board.
      4.   A member may be removed by the Board which appointed the member for
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
      5.   Upon request of the member proposed for removal, the Board of
Commissioners may hold a hearing on the removal before it becomes effective.
   C.   Member Terms.
      1.   Members of the Planning Board shall be appointed for terms of three
years with terms expiring on June 30.
      2.   Members may continue to serve until their successors have been
appointed.
      3.   There shall be no term limits for those serving on the Planning
Board.
   D.   Vacancies. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expired terms
shall be filled as they occur for the unexpired remainder of the term either by
the Board of Commissioners of the town or the County Commissioners of Wake
County, depending upon the area represented.
   E.   Officers.
      1.   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and may create and fill
other offices as it may deem necessary.
      2.   The term of officers shall be one year or until successors shall
have been elected and installed, with eligibility for re-election.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-12, passed 11-7-2022)
10.4.3.   Rules of Procedure
   A.   Generally. The Planning Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of
its business and shall keep a record of its members' attendance and its
resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a
public record.
   B.   Compensation. Members of the Planning Board shall receive no
compensation for their services.
   C.   Schedule.
      1.   The Planning Board shall establish a regular meeting time and place.
      2.   Unless there is no business to be conducted, the Planning Board
shall hold at least one meeting monthly.
      3.   The Planning Board may elect to change and/or delete meeting dates,
times and/or locations of its regular meetings.
   D.   Open Meetings. All meetings and hearings shall be open to the public.
   E.   Official Record.
      1.   The Planning Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon each question and the absence or failure of any member
to vote.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided by law, all records and minutes shall be
public record.
   F.   Quorum.
      1.   No official business of the Planning Board may be conducted without
a quorum present.
      2.   A quorum shall consist of a majority of actual membership excluding
vacant seats.
   G.   Voting.
      1.   An affirmative vote of the majority of Planning Board members
constituting a quorum is required for all decisions.
      2.   The Chairperson shall vote as any other member.
      3.   The members appointed to the BOA by the Board of Wake County
Commissioners as representatives of the extraterritorial area outside the town
shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with the other members of the
Planning Board regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the town
or within the extraterritorial area.
   H.   Attendance. Faithful attendance at meetings of the Planning Board is
considered a prerequisite to continued membership, and the appointing authority
may remove and replace any member continually delinquent in his duty to attend.
Specifically, members of the Planning Board may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners at any time for:
      1.   Failure to attend three consecutive meetings; or
      2.   Failure to attend 70% or more of the meetings within any 12-month
period; or
      3.   For any other good cause related to performance of duties.
   I.   Conflict of Interest.
      1.   A member of the Planning Board shall not vote, nor participate in
any manner that would violate an affected person's constitutional rights to an
impartial decision maker; including, but are not limited to:
         a.   A member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that
is not susceptible to change;
         b.   A close family, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person; or
         c.   Financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
      2.   If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that
member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by
majority vote rule on the objection.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-12, passed 11-7-2022)
10.5. TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE (TRC)
The Technical Review Committee (TRC) is hereby established in accordance with
Section 160D-306 and Section 160D-803 of the North Carolina General Statutes.
The TRC shall have the following powers, duties, composition, and rules of
procedure under this Ordinance:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
10.5.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Application Review and Decision. To review and decide the following
applications:
      1.   Preliminary Plats; and
      2.   Site Plans.
   B.   Other Powers and Duties. To conduct a review of any other issue deemed
appropriate by the Board of Commissioners or Town Manager.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.5.2.   Composition
   A.   Membership.
      1.   The TRC shall consist of the following persons or their appointed
representatives:
         a.   Town Manager;
         b.   Planning Director;
         c.   Police Chief;
         d.   Fire Chief;
         e.   Public Works Director;
         f.   Finance Director;
         g.   Parks and Recreation Director;
         h.   Appropriate representatives from any other public utility; and
   I.   Other persons whose attendance would be beneficial to the review
process as determined by the Chair.
      2.   Representatives from other town departments, representatives from
other municipalities, NC DOT, railroad representatives, private utility
companies, and public or private school systems may also attend.
   B.   Officers. The Planning Director or their designee shall serve as Chair
of the TRC, and shall schedule committee meetings, coordinate the committee's
activities, preside over committee meetings, prepare committee reports, and
serve as liaison to the departments and agencies involved for clarification of
issues and resolution of conflicts.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-12, passed 11-7-2022)
10.5.3.   Rules of Procedure
   A.   Meetings.
      1.   The TRC shall establish a regular meeting schedule, and shall meet
frequently enough to discuss any plats, plans or related issues submitted to it
for review.
      2.   The Planning Director may invite applicants to attend TRC meetings.
   B.   Conflict of Interest.
      1.   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision required by this Chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff
member or if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person
with whom the staff member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest under
this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff
person or such other staff person as may be designated by the development
regulation or other ordinance.
      2.   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this Chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with a local government to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the local government, as determined by the local government
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-65, passed 5-3-2021)
10.6.   BUILDING INSPECTOR
With respect to the administration of this Ordinance, the Building Inspector
shall have the following powers and duties:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.6.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Application Review and Decision. To review and decide applications for:
      1.   Building Permits; and
      2.   Certificates of Occupancy.
   B.   Other Powers and Duties. The Building Inspector shall have the
following other powers and duties:
      1.   Assist with enforcement of this Ordinance in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement;
      2.   Process applications as designated in the Procedures Manual;
      3.   Provide expertise and technical assistance to the town's review
authorities and administration, upon request;
      4.   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this Ordinance
and make records available for public inspection; and
      5.   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the Town Manager or the
Planning Director.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-12, passed 11-7-2022)
10.7.   PLANNING DIRECTOR
The Planning Director shall have the following powers and duties:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.7.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Application Review and Decision. To review and decide applications for:
      1.   Administrative Adjustments;
      2.   Exempt Subdivisions;
      3.   Final Plats;
      4.   Floodplain Development Permits;
      5.   Interpretations;
      6.   Sign Permits;
      7.   Temporary Use Permits; and
      8.   Zoning Compliance Permit.
   B.   Other Powers and Duties. The Planning Director shall have the following
other powers and duties:
      1.   Assist with enforcement of this Ordinance in accordance with
Article 8: Enforcement;
      2.   Serve as the Floodplain Administrator;
      3.   Maintain the Procedures Manual;
      4.   Provide expertise and technical assistance to the town's review
authorities and administration, upon request;
      5.   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this Ordinance
and make records available for public inspection; and
      6.   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the Town Manager or the
Board of Commissioners.
   C.   Watershed Administrator.
      1.   The Planning Director is hereby appointed as the Watershed
Administrator and review all applications for development in the R1 district
for compliance with the applicable water supply watershed regulations.
      2.   The Planning Director may enter any building, structure, or
premises, as provided by law, to perform any duty of the Watershed
Administrator.
   D.   Floodplain Administrator. The Planning Director is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District. Duties of the Planning Director
shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Review all development permits to assure that the requirements of
this part have been satisfied.
      2.   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      4.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      5.   Prevent encroachments within floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of Section
3.8.2, Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO) District, are met.
      6.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, in accordance with division (B)(5).
      7.   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with division (B)(5).
      8.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with Section
3.8.2.D.2.B, Non-Residential Construction.
      9.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this section.
      10.   When base flood elevation data or floodway data has not been
provided in accordance with Section
3.8.2.B.2, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, obtain,
review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data
available from a federal, state, or other source, including data developed
pursuant to Section
3.8.2.D.3.D, in order to administer the provisions of this part.
      11.   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with Section
3.8.2.B.8, Violations.
      12.   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke permits
and take corrective actions in accordance with Section
3.8.2.B.8, Violations.
      13.   Maintain all records pertaining to the administration of this part
and make these records available for public inspection.
      14.   Provide the North Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public
Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the National
Flood Insurance Program with two copies of the maps delineating new corporate
limits within six months from date of annexation or change in corporate
boundaries.
      15.   The Planning Director or their appointed designee shall report all
variances granted each calendar year to the Environmental Management Commission
and Wildlife Resources Commission on or before January 1 of the following year.
      16.   The Planning Director or their appointed designee may waive the
requirements of this section to allow an encroachment into the required flood
protection areas for the construction of required public improvements
including, water, sewer, and roadways when a finding of no practical
alternative is made. Any waiver of these requirements does not in any way
relieve the applicant of the requirements of other federal, state, or local
regulations applicable to the development area. In making the determination for
waivers the Land Use Administrator, or their appointed designee, shall
consider:
         a.   Safety;
         b.   Terrain;
         c.   Impact on adjacent properties;
         d.   Accessibility;
         e.   System function;
         f.   Cost; and
         g.   Timing.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.8.   TOWN MANAGER
The Town Manager shall have the following powers and duties:
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019)
10.8.1.   Powers and Duties
   A.   Powers and Duties. The Town Manager shall have the following other
powers and duties:
      1.   Enforce this Ordinance in accordance with Article 8: Enforcement,
and State law;
      2.   Advise applicants on the merits of proposed applications;
      3.   Facilitate coordinated implementation, enforcement, and periodic
review of this Ordinance by keeping the Board of Commissioners informed of
matters involving this Ordinance;
      4.   Hear appeals of development-related aspects not addressed in this
Ordinance; and
      5.   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the Board of
Commissioners in accordance with State law.
(Ord. 2020-36, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2023-12, passed 11-7-2022)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference UDC Section
G.S. Reference              UDC Section
1-49(3)                     8.3
1-51(5)                     8.3
1A-1, Rule 4(j)             8.7.2
14-4                        8.8.6
14-202.10                   9.4
18C-901 - 18C-928           4.4.7
Chapter 29                  2.2.9,
                            6.1.4
                            2.2.10,
47-30                       2.2.11,
                            2.2.17
Chapter 47A                 9.4
Chapter 47C                 4.3.3,
                            9.4
Chapter 89B                 5.9.3
Chapter 105, Art. 12        5.9.3
105-277.3                   9.4
106-581.1                   9.4
106-743.2                   9.4
Chapter 110, Art. 7         4.3.4,
                            4.4.7
110-86                      9.4
Chapter 113A, Art. 4        1.3.2
113A-57(4)                  6.9.3
122C-3(11)                  9.4
Chapter 130A, Art. 9        9.4
130A-290(a)(6)              9.4
136-32                      5.11.9
136-44.14                   6.8.2
136-66.10                   6.10.4
136-126 - 136-140.1         4.7.1,
                            5.11.5
136.131.2                   7.3.2
Chapter 143, Art. 21        1.3.2
Chapter 143, Art. 21, Pt. 6 3.8.2
143-143.15                  3.8.2
143-214.5                   3.3.2
143-216.6A                  8.9.7
143-215.58                  3.8.2
143-755                     1.10.3
143B-139.4                  9.3.9
Chapter 153A, Art. 6        3.8.2
Chapter 160A, Art. 8        1.3.2,
                            3.8.2
Chapter 160A, Art. 15       1.3.2
160A-31                     2.2.2
160A-58                     2.2.2
160A-175                    8.8.6
Chapter 160D                1.3.2
Chapter 160D, Art. 7        3.8.2
Chapter 160D, Art. 9        3.8.2
Chapter 160D, Art. 11       3.8.2
                            2.2.2,
160D-108                    2.2.23,
                            9.4
160D-108.1                  9.4
160D-109(a)                 10.3.2
160D-301                    10.4
160D-302                    10.2
160D-306                    10.5
160D-403                    2.2.4
160D-403(f)                 8.8.5
160D-406                    2.3.7
160D-501                    9.4
160D-601                    2.3.6
160D-601(a)                 2.3.6
160D-602 - 160D-605         2.2.25
160D-602                    2.3.6
160D-605                    1.6.2
160D-703                    2.2.6
                            2.2.9,
160D-802                    6.1.4,
                            9.4
160D-803                    10.5
160D-804                    6.7.1
160D-807                    6.1.9
160D-903                    4.4.7
160D-908                    5.11.4
160D-910                    3.8.5
160D-915                    4.4.7
160D-930 - 160D-938         4.3.4
160D-931                    4.3.4,
                            9.4
160D-1001 - 160D-1012       2.2.8
160D-1110                   9.4
160D-1127                   2.2.4,
                            2.2.5
160D-1402                   2.2.3,
                            2.2.22
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  UDC Section
2020-48  6-1-2020       5.11.9
2020-49  6-1-2020       4.4.7
2021-32  9-1-2020       4.5.4
2021-33  9-1-2020       6.10.7
2021-44  11-2-2020      6.2.4,
                        6.2.5
2021-45  11-2-2020      6.8.1
                        3.5.3,
2021-55  3-1-2021       3.5.4,
                        5.11.9
                        1.3.2,
                        1.6.2,
                        2.2.2 -
                        2.2.6,
                        2.2.8,
                        2.2.9,
                        2.2.19,
                        2.2.22,
                        2.2.23,
                        2.2.25,
                        2.3.6,
                        2.3.7,
2021-65  5-3-2021       3.8.2,
                        3.8.5,
                        4.3.4,
                        4.4.7,
                        5.11.4,
                        6.1.4,
                        6.1.9,
                        8.8.5,
                        9.4,
                        10.2,
                        10.3.2,
                        10.4,
                        10.5,
                        10.5.3
2022-13  10-4-2021      3.5.3
                        4.2.3,
2022-14  10-4-2021      4.3.5,
                        9.4
                        4.2.3,
2022-15  10-4-2021      4.3.5,
                        9.4
2022-16  10-4-2021      4.3.5
2022-17  10-4-2021      3.4.5 -
                        3.4.7
2022-18  10-4-2021      4.2.3,
                        4.3.5
                        5.1.3,
                        5.1.4,
2022-19  10-4-2021      5.3.1 -
                        5.3.3,
                        5.8.4,
                        5.8.7
2022-20  10-4-2021      9.4
2022-40  5-2-2022       5.3.1,
                        5.3.2
2022-41  5-2-2022       5.6.19
2022-42  6-6-2022       1.5.7
2022-49  6-6-2022       3.8.2,
                        9.4
2023-05  8-9-2022       1.5.7
2023-09  11-7-2022      2.3.6
2023-10  11-7-2022      5.11.9
2023-11  11-7-2022      5.3.3
                        10.4.2,
                        10.4.3,
2023-12  11-7-2022      10.5.2,
                        10.6.1,
                        10.8.1
                        6.13.3,
2023-38  5-1-2023       6.13.7,
                        6.13.11
2024-08  9-11-2023      4.2.3,
                        9.4
2024-09  9-11-2023      4.2.3
                        2.2,
2024-10  9-11-2023      2.2.7,
                        2.2.14,
                        2.2.17
2024-11  9-11-2023      5.11.9
                        4.3.3,
                        4.4.6,
                        4.4.7,
                        5.2.1 -
2025-11  10-7-2024      5.2.3,
                        5.8.5,
                        6.12.3,
                        6.14.2,
                        9.3.11
                       
 
 
