TOWN OF ADVANCE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through:
Ordinance No. 2021-07 , passed 10-26-2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.17   Incorporation of material by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Advance Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Boone, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      LAW. When used in reference or respect to any matter, any provision of
the United States or Indiana Constitutions, federal or state statute, any
applicable and enforceable federal or state regulations or administrative law,
any applicable local ordinance or enforceable regulation and the common law.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN.
         (a)   Used in a governmental or corporate sense: the Civil Town of
Advance, Indiana, a municipal corporation and body politic organized under the
laws of the state; and includes, with respect to any particular matter and by
representation, its Council or such other officials, boards, commissions,
departments, agencies or other authorities empowered to exercise governmental
or corporate authority on behalf of the Civil Town of Advance with respect to
such particular matters.
         (b)   Used in a territorial or geographic sense: the area included
within the lawful municipal boundaries of the Civil Town of Advance at that
time in question, irrespective of the boundaries in existence at the time this
code or any included provision or amendment takes effect; but with respect to
any particular matter over which the Civil Town of Advance exercises any
governmental or corporate jurisdiction beyond such municipal boundaries under
authority of any law or an intergovernmental cooperative agreement, the term
shall also include the area within such extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, §        )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.17 INCORPORATION OF MATERIAL BY REFERENCE.
   When the text of any materials are incorporated into and made a substantive
part of any provision of this code or a supplementary ordinance by reference,
rather than being directly set forth, such materials are declared to be and are
made public documents, and tow copies of each such complete document or of that
portion thereof so incorporated by reference shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer and made available for public inspection and
copying in the same manner as other public documents. However, this requirement
does not apply to instances where a statue or similar law or written
regulation, already being a promulgated public document, is cited or reference
merely for the purpose of establishing legal basis or authority, legal
procedure or legal precedent incident to the implementation or administration
of a provision of the code; nor to instances where some such document or
portion thereof is not incorporated as an actual substantive part of the
provision, but is cited or referred to merely for the purpose of establishing
administrative guidelines, standards or procedures incidental to the
administration of the substantive parts of the provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time
to time for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time
to time for second and subsequent violations, except for violations of
ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
11.01   General enforcement policy
   
11.02   Responsibility for enforcement; duty of Town Marshal
   
11.03   Enforcement by other officials, boards or commissions
   
11.04   Procedure for issuance of citation; service in person
   
11.05   Notice to appear; refusal to sign; security for release
   
11.06   Statute of limitations on issuance of citation
   
11.07   Form of citation and summons; traffic offenses; other offenses
   
11.08   Filing and prosecution of violation complaint
§ 11.01 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT POLICY.
   Unless some different procedure is expressly set forth and prescribed by the
particular title, chapter or section of this code containing the enforcement
provision, the enforcement of any such provision shall be administered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 11.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT; DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   Unless some other official, board, commission or similar entity is expressly
designated as the primary enforcement officer or authority responsible for the
administration and enforcement of a particular enforcement provision, it is the
duty of the Town Marshal, acting himself or herself or through his or her
lawful officers, to take all steps necessary for effective enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 11.03 ENFORCEMENT BY OTHER OFFICIALS, BOARDS OR COMMISSIONS.
   Whenever in this code any official, board, commission or similar entity is
given responsibility instead of, or concurrent with, that of the Town Marshal
for the administration and enforcement of any enforcement provision, the term
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall mean and include such other officials, boards,
commissions or similar entitles or their properly authorized agents.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 11.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF CITATION; SERVICE IN PERSON.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer issues a citation for violation of any
enforcement provision, the enforcement officer may detain the person for a
sufficient time to:
      (1)   Inform the person of the allegation;
      (2)   Obtain the person’s name, address and date of birth or driver’s
license if in his or her possession, for purposes of identification; and
      (3)   Allow the person to execute a notice to appear in court to answer
the charges of the violation, except as provided in §
11.05  of this chapter.
   (B)   If the person being charged refuses to provide the information or
driver’s license as required by division (A)(2) above, the enforcement officer
shall inform the person that such refusal constitutes a violation of state law
and may subject the person to arrest and further penalties as may be provided
for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-4)
§ 11.05 NOTICE TO APPEAR; REFUSAL TO SIGN; SECURITY FOR RELEASE.
   (A)   Any person who is a resident of the state and is detained by
enforcement officer for the purpose of issuing and serving a citation for
violation of an enforcement provision, and who provides the enforcement officer
with a satisfactory identification, shall, thereupon, be released for such
detention without other bond or security for appearance.
   (B)   If the person is a non-resident of the state, or is a resident of the
state, but refuses to sign a notice to appear in court, and the offense charged
is of a kind other than a moving traffic offense required to be reported to the
state’s Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the enforcement officer shall before
releasing the person accompany the person to the office of the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer, where the person shall be released upon either depositing with the
Clerk-Treasurer a security as guarantee for appearance, said security being a
deposit of cash, traveler’s checks or other valuable securities or property
acceptable to the Clerk-Treasurer and at least equal in value to the amount of
fine requested in the complaint exclusive of costs which could be imposed by
the court were the person to appear and be convicted, for which security the
Clerk-Treasurer shall provide the person with a proper receipt However, if the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer is not open for business at the time the citation
is served, the enforcement officer, in lieu of the above procedure, shall
accompany the person to the nearest United States Postal Service receptacle and
shall supply the person with a stamped envelope addressed to the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, and shall ascertain that the person deposits therein and mails
either a security for appearance and a signed security deposit agreement, or
his or her copy of the citation and an amount of payment necessary to comprise
and settle the complaint in accordance with this chapter, and the enforcement
officer shall, thereupon, release the person from any further detention.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-5)
§ 11.06 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   No citation for the violation of any enforcement provision of this code
shall be issued and served if more than one year has elapsed since the alleged
violation has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-6)
§ 11.07 FORM OF CITATION AND SUMMONS; TRAFFIC OFFENSES; OTHER OFFENSES.
   The form of citation and summons used for an ordinance violation shall be as
appropriate to the nature of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-7)
§ 11.08 FILING AND PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION COMPLAINT.
   When an unsatisfied citation has been returned for violation of an
enforcement provision of this code, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver a copy of
the complaint and summons to the Town Attorney, who shall file such complaint
in the name of the town with a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-8)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   GOVERNING BODY AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; PURCHASING
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
      
35.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   General Fund as presumptive depository
   
30.02   Non-included official entities or funds
Limited English Proficiency Language Access Plan
   
30.15   Policy
   
30.16   Authorities
   
30.17   Definitions
   
30.18   Plan preparation
   
30.19   Mission
   
30.20   Language analysis; identifying the LEP population
   
30.21   Language assistance measures
   
30.22   Staff training
   
30.23   “Safe harbor” provision
   
30.24   Notice to LEP persons
   
30.25   Monitoring and updating
Uniform Internal Controls Standards
   
30.40   Mission
   
30.41   Objectives
   
30.42   Minimum level of control procedures
   
30.43   Principles adopted
   
30.44   Using principles and policies
   
30.45   Personnel compliance
   
30.46   Management
   
30.47   Implementation
   
30.48   Materiality threshold
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GENERAL FUND AS PRESUMPTIVE DEPOSITORY.
   All moneys received by the town, irrespective of source or intended use,
shall accrue to and be deposited in the General Fund of the town unless the
nature, source or intended use of such moneys is such that a provision of this
code, or of law, or of an applicable state or federal administrative regulation
specifies that they accrue to and be deposited in some other fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 30.02 NON-INCLUDED OFFICIAL ENTITIES OR FUNDS.
   This code is not necessarily comprehensive and all-inclusive with respect to
existing governmental officers, officials, other official entities or funds.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY LANGUAGE ACCESS PLAN
§ 30.15 POLICY.
   (A)   The town is committed to providing meaningful access to its programs
and services to persons who, as a result of their national origin, are limited
in English proficiency. It is our policy to ensure no person is subjected to
prohibited discrimination based on national origin in any program receiving
federal financial assistance from USDA Rural Development (RD).
   (B)   Outlined herein are procedures for the town’s Limited English
Proficiency Language Access Plan (LAP) to ensure that persons with limited
English proficiency (LEP) have meaningful access to programs and activities
receiving federal financial assistance from the USDA/Rural Development (USDA/
RD). This LAP applies to all programs and activities of the town receiving
federal financial assistance from the USDA/Rural Development.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.16 AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Section 601 of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §§
2000d et seq., and its implementing regulations provide that no person in the
United States shall, on the grounds of race, color or national origin, be
excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of or be otherwise
subjected to discrimination under any program or activity that receives federal
financial assistance. The Supreme Court, in Lau v. Nichols, 414 U.S. 563
(1974), interpreted Title VI regulations promulgated by the former U.S.
Department of Health, Education and Welfare to hold that Title VI prohibits
conduct that has a disproportionate effect on LEP persons because such conduct
constitutes national origin discrimination.
   (B)   Executive Order 13166, “Improving Access to Services for Persons with
Limited English Proficiency”, reprinted at 65 FR 50121 (8-16-2000), directs
each federal agency to examine the services it provides and develop and
implement a system by which LEP persons can meaningfully access those services.
The executive order states that recipients must take reasonable steps to ensure
meaningful access to their programs and activities by LEP persons. Federal
agencies were instructed to publish guidance for their respective recipients in
order to assist them with their obligations to LEP persons under Title VI. The
executive order recommended uniform guidance to recipients on the preparation
of a plan to improve access to its federally assisted programs and activities
by eligible LEP persons. Each plan shall be consistent with the standards set
forth in the U.S. Department of Justice’s policy guidance document entitled,
“Guidance to Federal Financial Assistance Recipients Regarding Title VI
Prohibition Against National Origin Discrimination Affecting Limited English
Proficient Persons” (“DOJ LEP Guidance”), reprinted at 67 FR 41455 (6-18-2002).
The DOJ LEP guidance was drafted and organized to function as a model for
similar guidance by other federal agencies.
   (C)   (1)   Consistent with the DOJ LEP Guidance, USDA published its final
“Guidance to Federal Financial Assistance Recipients Regarding the Title VI
Prohibition Against National Origin Discrimination Affecting Persons with
Limited English Proficiency” on 11-28-2014. The guidance does not create new
obligations for recipients, but provides guidance to recipients in meeting
their existing LEP obligations.
      (2)   It clarifies the responsibilities of recipients and will assist
them in fulfilling their responsibilities to LEP persons under Title VI and its
regulations.
   (D)   7 C.F.R. part 15, subpart A, effectuates the provisions of Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”) to the end
that no person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color or
national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of
or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity of an
applicant or recipient receiving federal financial assistance from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture or any agency thereof.
   (E)   (1)   7 C.F.R. part 1901, subpart E, which contains policies and
procedures for implementing the regulations of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture issued pursuant to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d et seq.; Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.; Executive Order 11246, as amended from time to time;
and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1691 et seq.,
as they relate to rural development.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be interpreted to prohibit preference to
American Indians on Indian reservations.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES. Programs and activities of an
entity that receives federal financial assistance.
   INTERPRETATION. The process by which the spoken word is used when
transferring meaning between languages.
   LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENT (LEP) PERSONS. Persons who do not speak English
as their primary language and have a limited ability to read, speak, write or
understand English are limited English proficient or LEP.
   QUALIFIED INTERPRETER. An individual who is competent to provide
interpretation services at a level of fluency, comprehension, impartiality and
confidentiality appropriate to the specific nature, type and purpose of the
information at issue.
   RECIPIENT. Any state, political subdivision of any state or instrumentality
of any state or political subdivision, any public or private agency,
institution or organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any state,
to whom federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another
recipient, including any successor, assign or transferee thereof, but such term
does not include any ultimate beneficiary.
   TRANSLATION. The process of transferring ideas expressed in writing from one
language to another language.
   VITAL DOCUMENT. Paper or electronic written material that contains
information that is critical for accessing a program or activity, or is
required by law, such as consent forms, applications and notices of rights.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.18 PLAN PREPARATION.
   In order to prepare this plan, the town utilized the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s four-factor analysis plan, which considers the following factors:
   (A)   The number of proportion of LEP persons in the town who may be served
or are likely to encounter a town program, activity or service;
   (B)   The frequency with which LEP persons come in contact with the town
programs, activities or services;
   (C)   The nature and importance of programs, activities or services provided
by the town to the LEP population; and
   (D)   The resources available to the town and overall cost to provide LEP
assistance.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.19 MISSION.
   The town’s LAP mission is to provide language assistance to the population
within the town that does not speak, read or write the English language.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.20 LANGUAGE ANALYSIS; IDENTIFYING THE LEP POPULATION.
   (A)   The town conducted assessment of the number of LEP individuals
eligible to be served. Identified below are the following groups based upon the
2015 American Community Survey data for the population five years and over (all
figures in estimates). Percentages of persons who:
      (1)   Speak only English in:
         (a)   Indiana: 5,636,420;
         (b)   Boone County: 54,151; and
         (c)   Jackson Township: 2,669.
      (2)   Spanish/Spanish Creole; speak English less than “very well”:
         (a)   Indiana: 120,062;
         (b)   Boone County: 312; and
         (c)   Jackson Township: three (less than 1%).
      (3)   French (including Patios, Cajun); speak English less than “very
well”:
         (a)   Indiana: 2,683;
         (b)   Boone County: 57; and
         (c)   Jackson Township: six (less than 1%).
      (4)   Vietnamese: speak English less than “very well”:
         (a)   Indiana: 3,968;
         (b)   Boone County: 61; and
         (c)   Jackson Township: five (less than 1%).
   (B)   Based on the 2015 American Community Survey data, less than 1% of all
households in the town have no one in the home, age five and older, that only
speaks English or speaks English “very well”. Therefore, over 99% of the
households in the community have at least one person who speaks only English or
English “very well”.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.21 LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE MEASURES.
   (A)   The analysis of the four factors suggest that LEP services are not
substantial in the town at this time.
   (B)   However, the town has committed to the following:
      (1)   Offer, upon request, translators free or charge for the town’s
public meetings, programs and activities if requested within 48 hours’ notice;
      (2)   Continually monitor sources of information are accessible for LEP
individuals; and
      (3)   “Safe harbor” provision for translation of written materials; the
size of all language groups are less than 1% and less than 1,000 in number;
therefore, no written translation is required.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.22 STAFF TRAINING.
   (A)   Staff members responsible for contact with the general public will be
knowledgeable about the Language Access Plan and how to provide services to
persons that are limited English proficient in the languages identified through
the assessment. Refresher information will be provided to our staff when
updates are made to the LAP to ensure consistency. Training will be an on-going
effort with the town.
   (B)   Employees will be versed with Translators USA, for telephone
communication, meetings, public events, language poster usage, fees,
cancellations and overall usage of the service.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.23 “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISION.
   The size of all language groups are less than 1% and less than 1,000 in
number and, therefore, no written translation is required.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.24 NOTICE TO LEP PERSONS.
   (A)   The town will provide notice to the public that language services are
available and the services are free of charge.
   (B)   Notices will be provided and the languages identified in §
30.20 of this chapter and in the following methods.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 30.25 MONITORING AND UPDATING.
   Periodically, the town will review the LAP to ensure that it remains current
to the LEP populations in our service area. At a minimum, this LAP will be
reviewed every five years to ensure our LEP policies and procedures remain
current and result in effective language services and meaningful access. The
goal of the town’s LAP is to provide excellent customer service to individuals
in the community who are not English speaking. Service will be measured with
Translators USA at the time of utilization of service and evaluated with each
individual case for future use.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 9-11-2017)
UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROLS STANDARDS
§ 30.40 MISSION.
   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control system is
as follows:
   (A)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
   (B)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including, but not limited to, the police, fire, utilities, economic
development, parks and the like;
   (C)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
   (D)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.41 OBJECTIVES.
   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives as
related to an internal control system are as follows:
   (A)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services are
performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management and planning among others;
   (B)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others; and
   (C)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including, by way of example, following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents, such as IACT, among others.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.42 MINIMUM LEVEL OF CONTROL PROCEDURES.
   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control standards
and internal control procedures for an internal control system that includes
the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the state’s Board of Accounts,
dated September 2015, and as thereafter modified:
   (A)   Control environment;
   (B)   Risk assessment;
   (C)   Control activities;
   (D)   Information and communication; and
   (E)   Monitoring.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.43 PRINCIPLES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government:
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (B)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation and operation.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.44 USING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES.
   (A)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department and
personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
   (B)   The town authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council to review the
current internal control system of the town and the Town Council to adopt a
policy for the future internal control system to be effective after 6-30-2016,
and perform an annual review, or more if determined necessary for compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.45 PERSONNEL COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The personnel, whether an official or employee, of the town whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the Federal Government, state
government, a political subdivision or another governmental entity shall comply
with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any other
policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the town now
and as modified in the future.
   (B)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the Federal Government, state government, a political subdivision or
another governmental entity shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year, and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the town’s Fiscal
Officer or designee so that the Fiscal Officer can timely certify to the
state’s Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the
personnel as provided by law.
   (C)   The town authorizes the Town Council and Clerk-Treasurer to determine
the position and person who are the personnel referred to in divisions (A) and
(B) above and notify such personnel.
   (D)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (E)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of the employee.
   (F)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.46 MANAGEMENT.
   The Town Council, as the legislative body, along with the Clerk-Treasurer
shall constitute “management”, as referred to herein, and shall perform all the
internal controls system activities and duties as described herein and in the
policy to be adopted for the internal control system.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.47 IMPLEMENTATION.
   This subchapter may be implemented by any and all of the following actions
or such others as authorized by the Council:
   (A)   Posting a copy of this subchapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
   (B)   Providing a copy of this subchapter to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
   (C)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this subchapter; or
   (D)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this subchapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.48 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold in the amount as shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time for purposes of internal control
procedures.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 31: GOVERNING BODY AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Reimbursement of expenses for official travel
   
31.02   Organization memberships; payment of expenses to attend meetings
   
31.03   Elections
Town Council
   
31.15   Council in continuous session
   
31.16   Regular meeting schedule established; notice
   
31.17   Special meetings and other non-regular meetings
   
31.18   Council President
   
31.19   Council President Pro Tempore
   
31.20   Council districts
Officers and Officials
   
31.35   Powers and duties generally
   
31.36   Official agency
Town Marshal
   
31.50   Appointment of reserve officers
   
31.51   Compensation and allowances for reserve officers
   
31.52   Certain Marshal’s fees established; disposition
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR OFFICIAL TRAVEL.
   Any employee obligated to travel on official municipal business shall be
reimbursed for actual expenses for transportation, food and lodging. Expenses
must be itemized and supported by receipts, and submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer for approval by the Council. In the case of official travel using a
private vehicle, transportation costs shall be reimbursed on a mileage rate at
the same rate then paid by the state to its employees for official travel in a
private vehicle. All travel reimbursement shall be contingent on available
appropriations for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 31.02 ORGANIZATION MEMBERSHIP; PAYMENT OF EXPENSES TO ATTEND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund or other funds to provide membership for the town and the
elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality’s board,
departments or agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of
a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of the municipal operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the expenses of the duly authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
§ 31.03 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Elections for the offices of Town Council members and Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall be conducted during general elections. The terms for the
elected offices for the town shall be as follows.
      (1)   Town Council members. The Town Council shall consist of four
members, all of whom shall be elected in 2015.
         (a)   The two members elected to the Town Council in 2015 who receive
the two highest vote totals shall serve a three-year term beginning on 1-1-
2016. At the end of the initial three-year term, these two seats shall be
placed on the ballot in 2018, and every four years thereafter, for a four-year
term.
         (b)   The two members elected to the Town Council in 2015 who receive
the two lowest vote totals shall serve a one year term beginning 1-1-2016. At
the end of the initial one-year term, these two seats shall be placed on the
ballot in 2016, and every four years thereafter, for a four-year term.
      (2)   Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected in 2015
and shall serve a three-year term beginning on 1-1-2016. At the end of the
initial three-year term, the office of Clerk-Treasurer shall be placed on the
ballot in 2018, and every four years thereafter, for a four-year term.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-3, the county’s Election Board shall conduct
elections for the town. The Clerk-Treasurer and the President of the Town
Council are authorized to take all action necessary to transfer authority to
conduct elections to the county.
   (C)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a signed copy of this section
to the Circuit Court Clerk of the county and shall request the Clerk-Treasurer
to include a copy of this subchapter in the records of the county’s Election
Board.
(Ord. 2014-C-01, passed 12-8-2014)
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 31.15 COUNCIL IN CONTINUOUS SESSION.
   The Town Council shall have no definite session or sessions, but shall be in
continuous session for the conduct of the executive and legislative business of
the town government.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
§ 31.16 REGULAR MEETING SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall meet and conduct a regular meeting on the first
Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at the Town Hall. At least 48 hours prior to
the first such regular meeting each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall post a
calendar of the regular meetings for the year at the Town Hall and shall mail a
copy to any news media having requested same in writing prior to January 1. No
further notice of regular meetings is required unless the time or place of the
regular meeting is changed.
   (B)   However, the Town Council President may, upon 48 hours’ notice given
to the Clerk-Treasurer (or lesser notice in case of emergency):
      (1)   Change the meeting place, if the Town Hall is unsuitable for any
reason; and/or
      (2)   Advance or postpone the time of the meeting to better suit the
convenience of the Council or the public, but may not make a postponement of
more than one week without the unanimous consent of the other Council members.
   (C)   If the time and/or place of the meeting is changed, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall post notice of the change at the Town Hall (and at the new
meeting place, if the meeting place is changed) and also give notice to any
requesting news media immediately upon being notified of the change, and shall
inform or make a good faith attempt to inform all Council members of the
changed time and/or place of the meeting either by mail, telephone or in
person.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 31.17 SPECIAL MEETINGS AND OTHER NON-REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings, executive sessions or other conventions of the Town
Council for the conduct of town business may be called by the President, or by
a majority of the members of the Council and presented to the Clerk-Treasurer,
whenever it appears to him or her, that there exists business which cannot
await the next regular meeting or which is of such a special nature as best to
be conducted outside of a regular meeting. The Clerk-Treasurer shall inform or
make a good faith attempt to inform all members of the Council of the time,
place and purpose of the special meeting or other convention.
   (B)   All meetings conducted under this section, except for executive
sessions, shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3)
§ 31.18 COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   (A)   At its last regular meeting of each year, the Town Council, by
majority vote of the members present, shall elect one of its members as
President.
   (B)   The President shall have all powers and duties prescribed by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4)
§ 31.19 COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   At the time it elects a President, the Town Council shall also elect
one of its members as President Pro Tempore.
   (B)   If the President is absent or is temporarily disqualified from
presiding at the meeting for any reason, the President Pro Tempore shall
preside in his or her place, and shall have all the powers and duties of the
President for purposes of conducting the business of that meeting, including
the power to sign and attest to the passage of ordinances, resolutions or other
acts adopted by the Council during such time as the President Pro Tempore is
acting as President.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5)
§ 31.20 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be comprised of four Trustees.
   (B)   All four of the Trustees shall be elected at large by all the voters
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 2012-12-1, passed 12-29-2012)
OFFICERS AND OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   All officers, officials, boards, commissions or other official entities of
the town government shall be construed to have:
   (A)   All powers or duties prescribed for or conferred on any particular
such officer, official, board, commission or other official entity by statute,
this code or other law; and
   (B)   All powers or duties implied by the nature of and necessary or
dispensible to the proper and efficient fulfillment of the governmental or
corporate function or duties of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 31.36 OFFICIAL AGENCY.
   (A)   Any purely ministerial power or function vested in any officer, board,
commission or other entity by a provision of this code may be delegated to and
exercised or performed by a deputy or other authorized agent or representative
of the authority in whom the ministerial power or function is vested; except
that, no person shall be permitted to receive or handle public funds or other
moneys in the custody of the town unless they are properly bonded or expressly
so authorized by law.
   (B)   All monies received by the town, irrespective of source or intended
use, shall accrue to and be deposited in the General Fund of the town unless
the nature, source or intended use of such moneys is such that a provision of
this code, or of law, or of an applicable state or federal administrative
regulation specifies that they accrue to and be deposited in some other fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 31.50 APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The Town Marshal is expressly authorized to appoint up to a limit of two
part-time deputies and four reserve deputies which, in the Marshal’s sole
discretion, he or she believes are necessary and reasonable to protect the
public safety of the citizens of the town and to otherwise assist in
administrative duties of the office of the Town Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 31.51 COMPENSATION AND ALLOWANCE FOR RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The Town Council may appropriate funds for the benefit of the police
reserves as follows:
   (A)   Uniform allowances;
   (B)   Compensation for time lost from other employment because of court
appearances; and
   (C)   Insurance for life, accident and sickness.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 31.52 CERTAIN MARSHAL’S FEES ESTABLISHED; DISPOSITION,
   For services provided to the public by the office of the Town Marshal, the
following service fees are established.
   (A)   The office of the Town Marshal is authorized to charge a fee in the
amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for each vehicle
inspection done at the request of members of the public and to remit said fee
to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of said town.
   (B)   The office of the Town Marshal is further authorized to charge a fee
in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for each
accident report prepared by said office and to add an additional amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time to said fee for
photographs if they are requested with said request for an accident report.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; PURCHASING
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Payment of regular or recurrent expenses authorized prior to claim
allowance
   
32.02   Authority to invest town moneys
Purchasing Policies
   
32.15   Invitation for bids
   
32.16   Request for proposals
   
32.17   Request for specifications
   
32.18   Electronic notices
   
32.19   Receiving offers
   
32.20   Small purchases
   
32.21   Designated purchasing agents
   
32.22   Purchases not specifically authorized
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PAYMENT OF REGULAR OR RECURRENT EXPENSES AUTHORIZED PRIOR TO CLAIM
ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Whereas the town incurs various periodic and regular or recurrent
expenses for which appropriations have been duly made, but which from time to
time fall due and payable prior to the Town Council’s next scheduled meeting
when claims are allowed, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to issue any
necessary warrant and proceed to make timely payment of such expenses in
advance of allowance whenever required. The following kinds of payments may be
made in advance of allowance under authority of this section:
      (1)   Salaries and wages of civil town utility officers and employees;
      (2)   Utility service and fuel bills;
      (3)   Membership dues to organizations to which the town belongs;
      (4)   Subscription charges to periodical publications to which the town
subscribes;
      (5)   State or federal taxes or withholding remittances;
      (6)   Insurance premiums;
      (7)   Regular banking and financial institution service charges;
      (8)   Rental charges on any leased property, buildings or equipment;
      (9)   Interest or mature principal on outstanding civil town or utility
obligations;
      (10)   Required contributions to pension funds or benefit programs for
civil town or utility employees;
      (11)   Any periodic payments required to be made under the provisions of
any contractual agreement previously approved and entered into the Town
Council, unless a stipulation of the contract makes such each payment
conditional upon the prior review and approval of the Town Council; and
      (12)   At the direction of the Town Council President, the payment, in
the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, to respond to
an urgent circumstance prior to the approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   When payments are made by the Clerk-Treasurer in advance of allowance
in accordance with this section, the subsequent allowance of the claim in the
amount of the advance payment shall be deemed a full ratification and
legalization of the action of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 32.02 AUTHORITY TO INVEST TOWN MONEYS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest surplus moneys of, or on deposit with, the
town and not required for immediate expenditure. Investments may be made in any
security or investment instrument authorized by state law, but subject to any
public depository distribution requirements as provided by state law, if
applicable to the investment. Investment shall be made in instruments having
sufficient liquidity to permit the town to meet its expenditure requirements in
a timely manner, and shall not be made in any security maturing in more than
one year from the date of the investment unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines
on a reasonable basis that all moneys so invested are not likely to be required
for a longer period of time. The Clerk-Treasurer may sell or otherwise
liquidate an investment if the investment moneys should prove to be needed to
pay the expenses of the town, in order to make a more advantageous investment
or to forestall principal devaluation. Unless otherwise provided by law,
applicable state or federal administrative regulations, or town ordinances,
investments shall be made from total moneys on deposit rather than by specific
fund, and all earnings or amounts of capital gain realized from the investment
shall accrue to the General Fund, and only the amount of original principal
shall be returned to the fund of original. To the extent not inconsistent with
the foregoing requirements of this section, moneys from different funds may be
combined and put in a single investment if a financial advantage to the town
would investment if a financial advantage to the town would result. When any
investment is made in accordance with this section and applicable laws, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall not be held personal liable for any loss of principle
which may incidentally result from the making or necessary sale or liquidation
of the investment.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 32.15 INVITATION FOR BIDS.
   (A)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall also post notice at the Town Hall, Post
Office and Fire Department.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.16 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All notices of request for proposals shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
   (B)   (1)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice
to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals.
      (2)   The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart.
      (3)   The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the
date the proposals will be opened.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.17 REQUEST FOR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.18 ELECTRONIC NOTICES.
   Whenever a notice or other materials, including specifications, an
invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for specifications, is
sent by mail, the purchasing agency may also send the notice or other material
by electronic means; provided that, the transmission of the information is at
least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.19 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only receive an electronic
offer if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.20 SMALL PURCHASES.
   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost in the
amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time on the open market
without inviting or receiving quotes.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.21 DESIGNATED PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   In addition to any other requirement herein, each purchasing agent
shall comply with all laws of the state, as well as ordinances and rules of the
purchasing agency and the town, with respect to any purchase. A purchasing
agent is not permitted to enter into separate purchases for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements and limitations set forth herein.
   (B)   The persons holding the following positions, some of whom may not be
employees of the town, are hereby appointed as a purchasing agent for the
purchasing agency (i.e., the Town Council):
      (1)   Town Marshal;
      (2)   Street Superintendent;
      (3)   Wastewater/Water Superintendent or wastewater/water contractor;
      (4)   Electric Superintendent or electric contractor;
      (5)   Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (6)   Park Board President.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the person holding the above-
named position shall have authority to purchase services and supplies,
excluding vehicles and other capital expenditures, for the town in their
respective departments without prior specific approval of the purchasing agency
(i.e., Town Council) if the estimated amount of the purchase is less than the
amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time and is included in
the approved budget for the office, as confirmed by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 32.22 PURCHASES NOT SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Purchases not specifically authorized above shall be presented to and
shall require the specific approval of the purchasing agency (i.e., Town
Council) before a contract for purchase is entered into and the purchasing
agent shall comply with each rule, procedure, limitation and requirement of the
purchasing agency that is given when authorizing a purchase in response to such
request.
   (B)   The purchasing agency (i.e., Town Council) may, at any time, further
modify or limit the authority of the above identified purchasing agent by
regular action of the Town Council, without need of a resolution or ordinance,
and the purchasing agent shall comply with such modification or limitation.
   (C)   After a purchasing agent listed above makes such a purchase as
authorized herein without obtaining prior specific approval of the purchasing
agency (i.e., Town Council), the purchasing agent shall submit a report to the
purchasing agency (i.e., Town Council) for them to review and ratify, if
appropriate, at its next regularly scheduled Council meeting.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Holiday schedule; compensatory time
   
33.03   Vacation leave for full-time employees
   
33.04   Paid sick leave
   
33.05   Extended sick leave with pay; limitations
   
33.06   Bereavement leave
   
33.07   Military service leave with pay
   
33.08   Leave for jury duty; pay reduced by jury pay
   
33.09   Leave without pay; authorization and time limits
   
33.10   Employee disciplinary actions; infractions; progressive warning and
penalties
   
33.11   Nepotism
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCIPLINARY ACTION. Actions taken by the town in response to an employee’s
infraction of rules.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs work or services for the civil town or its
municipally- owned utilities and receives pay or other valuable compensation
therefor, excepting an independent contractor or employees of such independent
contractor. However, the provisions of §
33.10 of this chapter do not apply to an elected officer.
   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee working over 32 hours per week.
   PART-TIME POLICE EMPLOYEE. An employee of the town’s Police Department who
works 20 hours or less per week.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 33.02 HOLIDAY SCHEDULE; COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Generally, the following holidays shall be observed in the town:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Labor Day;
      (3)   President’s Day;
      (4)   Columbus Day;
      (5)   Good Friday;
      (6)   Veteran’s Day;
      (7)   Memorial Day;
      (8)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (9)   Independence Day;
      (10)   Christmas Day;
      (11)   Election Day;
      (12)   One day flexible (day after Thanksgiving); and
      (13)   Martin Luther King Day.
   (B)   If any of these holidays fall on a Sunday, the following Monday shall
be the observed holiday and, if any of these holidays fall on Saturday, the
preceding Friday shall be observed. Due to the nature of the work required in
some departments, holidays may vary. If any regular employee is required to
work or render service on a holiday recognized by the town, he or she will be
compensated with equal time off. However, any employee absent without
authorization on the day preceding and/or following a holiday will not be
compensated for the holiday.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 33.03 VACATION LEAVE FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The town recognizes the need for providing paid vacation leave for its
employees. The full-time employees shall receive vacation days based on their
years of employment as follows:
 
Length of Continuous Employment Annual Vacation Allowance
At Least But Less Than
6 months 1 year                 1 week
1 year   5 years                2 weeks
5 years  10 years               3 weeks
10 years 15 years               4 weeks
15 years                        5 weeks
 
   (B)   The employee shall give the Clerk-Treasurer at least ten working days’
notice of intent to take a vacation. Vacation time will not accumulate from
year to year.
   (C)   Upon termination, full-time employees will not be compensated for
earned vacation time. Vacation pay will be made on the same day as regular pay,
but may be made in advance of any vacation taken. Employees may choose to
continue working and take pay in lieu of time off. A minimum of one- half
vacation time earned must be taken off per year.
   (D)   Part-time employees shall be granted vacation time based upon
employment longevity as follows:
 
Length of Continuous Employment Annual Vacation Allowances
At Least But Less Than:
6 months 1 year                 20 hours
1 year   5 years                40 hours
5 years                         60 hours
 
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 33.04 PAID SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Limited time off with pay shall be granted to full-time hourly
employees for illness or injury, or when the employee’s presence might
jeopardize the health of fellow workers. Every full-time employee will receive
ten working days per year and may not accumulate from year to year. Sick leave
is to be utilized for the purpose of illness or injury of the employee, or
illness or injury within the immediate family requiring the assistance of the
employee. In order to qualify for sick leave pay, the employee must:
      (1)   Notify the Clerk-Treasurer if at all possible prior to the
beginning of his or her shift; and
      (2)   Keep the Clerk-Treasurer notified of the extent of the illness.
   (B)   A doctor’s slip may be required if there is reason to believe that
sick leave is being abused. Sick leave pay shall be made on the same day as
regular pay. Part-time employees may receive up to five days per year of paid
sick leave.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 33.05 EXTENDED SICK LEAVE WITH PAY; LIMITATIONS.
   Extended sick leave may be granted to an employee for a period of up to 180
calendar days starting the first day of continuous illness, at full pay (except
as limited by §
33.06 of this chapter) in the case of illness or injury to the employee which
results in the employee’s inability to fulfill his or her duty. Compensation
under this section is allowable only once in any 12-month period. Any variance
from the above will be at the discretion of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 33.06 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   Bereavement leave will be granted to an employee upon the death of a
family member without loss of pay. An employee will be granted up to one week
leave with pay upon the death of spouse, brother, sister, son, daughter,
mother, father, any family member residing in the same household or any person
standing in the position of parent of an employee. Leave with pay not to exceed
two days may also be granted for the death of a grandmother, grandfather, aunt,
uncle, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-
in-law. Bereavement leave with pay for any other reason must be approved and
the authority to grant such a leave will be at the discretion of the Council.
However, no leave with pay shall exceed more than one week.
   (B)   The Council shall reserve the right to grant bereavement leave for
part-time employees based upon a 20-hour workweek.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 33.07 MILITARY SERVICE LEAVE WITH PAY.
   (A)   Any employee who is a member of the United States military or the
state’s National Guard will be granted not to exceed 15 days without loss of
pay or time.
   (B)   The town will pay any such employee regular wages.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 33.08 LEAVE FOR JURY DUTY; PAY REDUCED BY JURY PAY.
   In case of jury duty, the town will pay any employee the difference between
jury pay and the employee’s regular wages.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
§ 33.09 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY; AUTHORIZATION AND TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Leave without pay may be granted to an employee, upon application in
writing and approval by the Town Council, for the following reasons and only
after exhausting all other applicable categories of leave:
      (1)   Maternity;
      (2)   Extended sick leave (beyond the 180 days permitted under §
33.05 of this chapter);
      (3)   Extended bereavement leave; and
      (4)   Personal leave.
   (B)   The maximum length of leave will be no longer than six months, at
which time the employee will be permanently terminated.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 33.10 EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS; INFRACTIONS; PROGRESSIVE WARNING AND
PENALTIES.
   (A)   Major infractions; immediate termination.
      (1)   Major infractions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Being under the influence of alcohol or unlawful drugs on the
job;
         (b)   Gross insubordination;
         (c)   Use of unlawful drugs;
         (d)   Fighting on the job;
         (e)   Stealing or destruction of municipal property; and
         (f)   Falsification of the employee’s application.
      (2)   Major infractions may result in immediate termination.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
   (B)   Minor infractions. Minor infractions are those actions of an employee
which, if inexcusably continued, will result in the progressive disciplinary
proceedings as described in division (C) below, and include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Unexcused tardiness or absence of two or more occurrences in a one-
month period;
      (2)   Insubordination;
      (3)   Poor appearance of the employee;
      (4)   Failure to follow instructions;
      (5)   Absence of sick leave; and
      (6)   Other actions as defined by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
   (C)   Progressive warnings and penalties.
      (1)   The procedure for minor infractions is a system of progressive
discipline, which includes the following:
         (a)   Verbal warning;
         (b)   Written warning;
         (c)   One-day suspension without pay;
         (d)   Three-day suspension without pay; and
         (e)   Termination.
      (2)   A record of every verbal and written warning shall be kept on file.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
§ 33.11 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds it necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of conduct
with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in contracting with
the town in order to continue to be able to provide local government services
to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective 7-1-2012, known as
I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On 7-1-2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with a
unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with
a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective 7-1-2012 by
adopting the minimum requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and including all
future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to time,
and making them part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective 7-1-2012 by adopting the minimum requirement provisions
of I.C. 36-1-21 and including all future supplements and amendments hereto
which become law from time to time, and making them part hereof as if fully set
out herein.
   (E)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
Section
Policy Administration
   
34.001   Welcome
   
34.002   Introduction and purpose
   
34.003   Organization and responsibility
   
34.004   Policy handbook administration
Employment
   
34.015   Equal employment opportunity
   
34.016   Employment at will
   
34.017   Persons with disabilities
   
34.018   Immigration law compliance
   
34.019   Outside employment
   
34.020   Introductory period
   
34.021   Employment status
   
34.022   Access to personnel files
   
34.023   Employment reference and background checks
   
34.024   Personnel data changes
   
34.025   Seniority
   
34.026   Minimum job qualifications
   
34.027   Preference for town residents
   
34.028   Employment applications
   
34.029   Nepotism
   
34.030   Employee orientation
Timekeeping and Payroll
   
34.045   Timekeeping
   
34.046   Hours of work
   
34.047   Meal periods
   
34.048   Payroll
   
34.049   Payroll deductions
   
34.050   Overtime
   
34.051   Emergency closings
Employer - Employee Relations
   
34.065   Employee relations
   
34.066   Substance-free workplace
   
34.067   Uniform policy
   
34.068   Personal appearance
   
34.069   Travel and expense reimbursement
   
34.070   Health and safety
   
34.071   Workers’ compensation
   
34.072   Blood borne pathogens
   
34.073   Tools, equipment and vehicles
   
34.074   Use of town vehicles
   
34.075   Take home vehicles
   
34.076   No solicitation and distribution
   
34.077   Confidential information
   
34.078   No smoking and the use of tobacco or e cigarettes
Employee Conduct And Behavior
   
34.090   Anti-harassment
   
34.091   Conflicts of interest
   
34.092   Business ethics
   
34.093   Attendance and punctuality
   
34.094   Employee conduct and work rules
   
34.095   Commission of a felony or unlawful act
   
34.096   Progressive discipline policy
   
34.097   Problem resolution
   
34.098   Communication equipment, internet and e-mail
   
34.099   Social media
   
34.100   Political activity
Employee Benefits
   
34.115   Insurance benefits
   
34.116   Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF)
   
34.117   Holidays
   
34.118   Vacation
   
34.119   Paid time off
   
34.120   Bereavement leave
   
34.121   Jury duty
   
34.122   Family medical leave
   
34.123   Military leave
Separation of Employment
   
34.135   Resignation
   
34.136   Layoff and recall
   
34.137   Return of property
   34.138   Acknowledgment of receipt
Social Media
   
34.150   Purpose and application
   
34.151   Benefits of social media tools
   
34.152   Standards for use
   
34.153   Compliance
   
34.154   More information
POLICY ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.001 WELCOME.
   “The ability of town government to serve its citizens and to meet its legal
obligations depends upon the conscientious efforts of individual employees.
Each of the offices and departments of the Town of Advance provides a unique
public service. This handbook was developed to provide as much uniformity as
possible, within the constraints of the law and practicality, in the policies,
programs and benefits available to our town employees. We hope that this
chapter will answer many questions about employment with the Town of Advance.”
— Town Council
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.002 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this handbook (or, “this chapter” throughout) is to
provide a consistent, systematic and organized approach to the establishment,
implementation and administration of the personnel policies of the Town of
Advance (hereinafter referred to as “the town”). It is written, adopted and
interpreted exclusively by the Town Council, is issued by the Town Council and
is not subject to modification, change or contrary interpretation by any
employee or employee representative organization, except as may otherwise be
specifically authorized and recognized by the laws and/or Constitutions of the
state and the United States.
   (B)   This handbook is to be used to assist and guide personnel in the day-
to-day direction and performance of the general workforce, the result being
that a number of important and responsible goals may be achieved.
   (C)   By implementing uniform personnel policies that are applied in as
consistent and impartial manner as is practicable the goal is to promote the
best possible working relationships and highest morale among all town
employees. This chapter was created for the Police Department, government and
utility employees.
   (D)   Furthermore, it is not the intent or purpose of this chapter to
supersede or overrule any state or federal rules and regulations governing the
operation of a department. To the extent any conflict may exist between the
policies outlined in this chapter and state or federal law, state or federal
law shall supersede any such contrary policy espoused herein.
   (E)   It is, however, the intent of this chapter to provide support,
direction and procedures that will enable the town to practice fair and
consistent daily personnel administration.
   (F)   By providing employees with fair and equal opportunities in their
recruitment and advancement, by evaluating their services on the basis of merit
and fitness and by giving consideration to their needs and desires, the goal is
to provide an employment atmosphere that increases the cooperation and
productivity of the employees together with the prospects for career
opportunities within the town and each office or department of town government.
   (G)   By providing dependable and courteous services to the residents of the
town, the goal is to enhance the reputation and stature of the town’s
departments and offices within the community.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.003 ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town is governed by the Town Council. The Town Council is
responsible for the general administration of town business.
   (B)   The town is organized into various departments, or offices, to ensure
adequate expertise, specialization and efficient functioning. These
departments, or offices, function under the administrative guidance and control
of the department heads or elected official, who are responsible for the day-
to-day management and operation of the town.
   (C)   Each employee’s particular duties, obligations and areas of
responsibility are defined in his or her position description and/or by
assignment or directive of any department head or elected official. Employees
are primarily responsible to their immediate department heads or elected
officials for completion of specific work assignments and the quality, quantity
and timeliness of the work performed.
   (D)   The rights, authorities, powers and responsibilities of town employees
at all levels, with respect to the policies in this chapter, are more clearly
delineated in the specific subject areas. However, in general, the Town Council
is charged with the development, publication and adoption of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   The various management and department head personnel are charged with
applying, interpreting, enforcing and generally ensuring compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It is the obligation and a requirement as a
condition of employment for each individual person employed by the town to
comply in every respect with the provisions of this chapter and any related
procedures and work rules and to perform their assigned duties in a responsible
manner creditable to the town.
   (F)   As such, all town employees are expected to become knowledgeable about
its contents and abide by the policies set forth in this chapter. Any
questions, concerns or lack of understanding about a particular provision of
this chapter should be promptly discussed with the department head or elected
official.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.004 POLICY HANDBOOK ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The contents of this chapter are subject to change without notice at
the sole discretion of the Town Council. Only the Town Council, with Council
approval, will have the authority to make revisions of policies contained
herein.
   (B)   A hard copy of this chapter will be made available in each department
and online for all supervisors, current employees and to all new employees.
   (C)   Any changes to this chapter shall in no way alter the employment-at-
will policy or create a binding contract between the town and any employee.
   (D)   Employees are encouraged to make suggestions for improvements in
personnel policies and practices. Suggestions should be directed to the Town
Council in writing together with an explanation as to how such a change could
benefit the town, the department and/or the public.
   (E)   The Town Council will undertake to accomplish a review of this chapter
at 24-month intervals or as may be indicated by law or change in
characteristics of the town workforce.
   (F)   The Town Council maintains the ultimate right to manage the work force
consistent with the policies set forth in this chapter and all applicable state
and federal laws. The town’s rights include, but are not limited to,
determining method and procedure, number of work force, assignment of duties,
hours of employment compensation of personnel, hiring, disciplining,
discharging, promotion and transferring employees, and laying off employees for
lack of work, lack of funds or due to job abolishment.
   (G)   The policies of this chapter supersede all previous ordinances,
policies and manuals of the town or any department under the jurisdiction of
the town, written or unwritten, on subject matters covered or referred to
herein.
   (H)   In the event that any section of this chapter or amendment or
revisions is held to be unenforceable, contrary to law or otherwise restrained
from it full force and effect by a court or other tribunal of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining section(s) of this chapter, to the extent that they
remain unaffected by such declaration restraint, shall continue in full force
and effect.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
EMPLOYMENT
§ 34.015 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   In order to provide equal employment and advancement opportunities to
all individuals, employment decisions at the town will be based on merit,
qualifications and abilities. The town does not discriminate in employment
opportunities or practices on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age, disability, genetic disposition or any other characteristic
protected by law.
   (B)   This policy governs all aspects of employment, including selection,
job assignment, compensation, discipline, termination, access to benefits and
training.
   (C)   Any employee with questions or concerns about any type of
discrimination in the workplace is encouraged to bring these issues to the
attention of his or her department head or elected official. Employees can
raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Anyone found to be
engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.016 EMPLOYMENT AT WILL.
   (A)   Employment with the town is voluntarily entered into, and the employee
is free to resign at will at any time, with or without cause. Similarly, the
town may terminate the employment relationship at will at any time, with or
without notice or cause, so long as there is no violation of applicable federal
or state law.
   (B)   The policies set forth in this chapter are not intended to create a
contract, nor are they to be construed to constitute contractual obligations of
any kind or a contract of employment between the town and any of its employees.
The provisions of this chapter have been developed at the discretion of the
Town Council and, except for its policy of employment-at-will, may be amended
or canceled at any time, at the Town Council’s sole discretion.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.017 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to employ, advance and otherwise treat
qualified individuals without regard to their disabilities in all employment
practices. The town will attempt to accommodate disabled employees and job
applicants to enable them to perform the essential functions of their jobs in a
safe and efficient manner.
   (B)   The town will afford reasonable accommodation to qualified applicants
and employees with a known disability; provided that, the accommodation does
not cause undue hardship to the town or, irrespective of the accommodation,
that such individuals do not pose a direct threat to the health and safety of
themselves or others.
   (C)   Applicants and employees may inform the Clerk-Treasurer of the
disability and may suggest, on a confidential basis, how the town may
reasonably accommodate them. The Town Council and the Town Attorney will make
the determination of reasonable accommodation.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.018 IMMIGRATION LAW COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The town is committed to employing only United States citizens and
aliens who are authorized to work in the United States and does not unlawfully
discriminate on the basis of citizenship or national origin.
   (B)   In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
being Pub. Law No. 99-603, each new employee, as a condition of employment,
must complete the Employment Eligibility Verification Form, I-9, and present
documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility. Former
employees who are rehired must also complete the form if they have not
completed an I-9 with the town within the past three years, or if their
previous I-9 is no longer retained or valid.
   (C)   Employees with questions or seeking more information on immigration
law issues are encouraged to contact the Clerk-Treasurer. Employees may raise
questions or complaints about immigration law compliance without fear of
reprisal.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.019 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employees who wish to hold an outside job must have prior approval of
the Town Council. Employees may hold outside jobs as long as they meet the
performance standards of their job with the town. All employees will be judged
by the same performance standards and will be subject to the town’s scheduling
demands, regardless of any existing outside work requirements.
   (B)   If the Town Council determines that an employee’s outside work
interferes with performance or the ability to meet the requirements of the town
as they are modified from time to time, the employee may be asked to terminate
the outside employment if he or she wishes to remain with the town.
   (C)   Outside employment that constitutes a conflict of interest is
prohibited. Employees may not receive any income or material gain from
individuals outside the town for materials produced or services rendered while
performing their jobs.
   (D)   An employee shall be given two weeks to resign from an outside job
that is determined by the Town Council to interfere with the employee’s duties
for the town. Failure to resign from the outside job within this period could
subject the employee to termination of employment.
   (E)   Employees may not use town vehicles for outside employment unless the
purpose of the job relates to provide security. The Town Council will have
final approval on any outside employment that involves the use of a town
vehicle.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.020 INTRODUCTORY PERIOD.
   (A)   Newly hired employees of the town, with the exception of police
officers, shall be required to complete a 90-day introductory period. Employees
should be evaluated on or about their completion of the 90-day introductory
period. The evaluation should be discussed with the employees. During the 90
days, the department head or elected official should provide the employee with
two reviews concerning his or her performance.
   (B)   Police officers will serve an introductory period consisting of the
first 12 months of employment from the date of hire.
   (C)   The introductory period allows management the opportunity to closely
observe and evaluate employee fitness and suitability for the position to which
he or she has been hired. Only those employees who demonstrate an acceptable
standard of conduct and performance during this period shall be retained in
their positions.
   (D)   If the service of a newly hired introductory employee is
unsatisfactory, he or she may be terminated at any time during his or her
introductory period. Time spent on inactive pay status or non- paid leave of
absence shall not be counted toward the completion of the introductory period.
   (E)   The introductory employee will not be allowed to take vacation leave
during the introductory period. He or she may take any accrued sick or
compensatory time if necessary. The introductory employee will receive holiday
pay if a holiday occurs during his or her introductory period.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.021 EMPLOYMENT STATUS.
   (A)   It is the intent of the town to clarify the definitions of employment
classifications so that employees understand their employment status and
benefit eligibility. These classifications do not guarantee employment for any
specified period of time.
   (B)   Accordingly, the right to terminate the employment relationship at
will at any time is retained by both the employee and the department head or
elected official in accordance with any federal or state law.
   (C)   Each employee is designated as either non-exempt or exempt from
federal and state wage and hour laws. Non-exempt employees are entitled to
overtime pay under the specific provisions of federal and state laws.
   (D)   Exempt employees are excluded from specific provisions of federal and
state wage and hour laws. The Town Council shall change an employee’s exempt or
non-exempt classification only upon written notification.
   (E)   In addition to the above categories, each employee will belong to one
other employment category:
      (1)   Regular full-time employees who are not in a temporary status and
who are regularly scheduled to work at least 40 hours per week are eligible for
the town’s benefit package, subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of
each benefit program;
      (2)   Regular part-time employees are those who are regularly scheduled
to work less than 40 hours and are not assigned to a temporary status and work
a specific work schedule on a weekly basis. While they do receive all legally
mandated benefits (such as Social Security and workers’ compensation
insurance), they are not eligible for other town benefits;
      (3)   Introductory employees are those whose performance is being
evaluated to determine whether further employment in a specific position or
with the town is appropriate. Employees who satisfactorily complete the
introductory period will be notified of their new employment classification;
      (4)   Temporary or seasonal employees are those who are hired as interim
replacements, to temporarily supplement the work force, or to assist in the
completion of a specific project. Employment assignments in this category are
of a limited duration;
      (5)   Government employees are those employees who are:
         (a)   Hired by and under direction of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
         (b)   Those employees who are hired by and under the direction of the
Town Marshal.
      (6)   Utility employees are those employees who are municipal employees
hired by and under the direction of the Town Council.
   (F)   At the time of hire, employees will be advised if they are in a
position that has been designated as “essential” by the Clerk-Treasurer or the
Town Council. These positions are those deemed necessary to maintain critical
operations of the town in emergency situations such as severe weather, power
failures or other situations where it is necessary to close certain offices of
the town yet maintain essential services to the town. (Refer to §
34.051 of this chapter.)
   (G)   Employment beyond any initially stated period does not in any way
imply a change in employment status. Temporary employees retain that status
until notified of a change to another status. While temporary and seasonal
employees receive all legally mandated benefits (such as workers’ compensation
insurance and Social Security), they are not eligible for the town’s other
benefit programs.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.022 ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   The town maintains a personnel and medical file in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office on each employee. All information regarding the employee
will be kept in these files.
   (B)   Personnel files are the property of the town and access to the
information they contain is restricted. Generally, only individual employees
and the Clerk-Treasurer have a legitimate reason to review information in a
file.
   (C)   The Town Council may review the personnel files of employees under its
direct supervision. The Town Attorney may review personnel files with approval
of, or at the request of the Town Council.
   (D)   With reasonable advance notice, employees may review their own
personnel files in the town’s offices in the presence of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Employee medical records will be maintained separate from the main
contents of the file in accordance with HIPPA requirements.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.023 EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE AND BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   To ensure that individuals who join the town are well qualified and
have a strong potential to be productive and successful, it is the policy of
the town to conduct background checks and verify the employment references of
those applicants who may be extended an offer of employment.
   (B)   The town will respond to all reference check inquiries from other
employers. Responses to such inquiries will be limited to inclusive dates of
employment positions held. No other employment data will be released without a
written authorization and release signed by the individual who is the subject
of the inquiry.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.024 PERSONNEL DATA CHANGES.
   It is the responsibility of each employee to notify promptly the Clerk-
Treasurer of any changes in personal data. Personal mailing addresses,
telephone numbers, number and names of dependents, individuals to be contacted
in the event of emergency, educational accomplishments and other such status
reports should be accurate and current at all times. If any personnel data has
changed, the employee shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.025 SENIORITY.
   (A)   SENIORITY is defined, for purposes of this chapter, as the
uninterrupted length of continuous service in the employment of the town.
   (B)   An authorized leave of absence does not constitute a break in service
and seniority time continues to accumulate during the term of the leave if the
employee returns to service following such authorized leave.
   (C)   If an employee is terminated from employment for any reason other than
layoff, a break in service and seniority occurs, if the employee is
“reinstated” within one year of his or her termination; however, continuous
service is not deemed to have been broken and seniority credit is given for
such prior service. Seniority shall continue commencing with the employee’s
first day of actual employment upon being reinstated. An employee who is
reinstated within one year of the date of layoff retains previously accumulated
seniority but not seniority credit for time spent while on layoff.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer will maintain the town’s seniority lists for
purposes of work assignments, shift assignments, filling vacancies and other
internal procedures (i.e., days off).
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.026 MINIMUM JOB QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of employees to maintain the minimum
qualifications of their classifications as established by the Town Council or
mandated by state or federal law. The Town Council shall determine the
qualifications and requirements for each classification in the town.
   (B)   Employees failing to maintain the minimum qualifications of their job
duties, or who do not comply with state and federal requirements may be subject
to discipline up to and including termination.
   (C)   If a vacancy exists in a classification for which the employee is
qualified, the employee may be recommended for the position by the department
head, with final approval granted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.027 PREFERENCE FOR TOWN RESIDENTS.
   (A)   In filling vacancies, the town shall give preference to applicants who
are current town residents and whose skills, experience, abilities and personal
qualifications are equal to those of the best-qualified applicant.
   (B)   When applicants are similarly qualified and in keeping with the town’s
EEO policy, the town residents shall be given preference over non-residents at
the time of employment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.028 EMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The town relies upon the accuracy of information contained in the
employment application, as well as the accuracy of other data presented
throughout the hiring process and employment.
   (B)   (1)   Any misrepresentations, falsifications or material omissions in
any of this information or data may result in exclusion of the individual from
further consideration for employment or, if the person has been hired,
termination of employment.
      (2)   The original copy of the employment application will be kept in the
employee’s personnel file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.029 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Employees who are relatives of an elected official or department head
may not be employed by the town in a position that results in one relative
being in the direct line of supervision of the other relative (I.C. 36-1-20.2).
   (B)   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION means an elected official or department
head who is in a position to affect the terms and conditions of another
individual’s employment, including making decisions about work assignments,
compensation, grievances, advancement or performance evaluation. The term does
not include the responsibilities of the executive, legislative body or fiscal
body of the town, as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary
ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the town.
   (C)   EMPLOYED means an individual who is employed by the town on a full-
time, part-time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not
include an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an
employee who is a party to an employment contract with the town.
   (D)   RELATIVE means any of the following:
      (1)   A spouse;
      (2)   A parent or stepparent;
      (3)   A child or stepchild;
      (4)   A brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, stepbrother or
stepsister;
      (5)   A niece or nephew;
      (6)   An aunt or uncle;
      (7)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law; and
      (8)   An adopted child is considered the same as natural child of the
individual.
   (E)   This policy does not apply to employees in their current positions as
of 6-30-2012 unless the employee has a break in employment.
   (F)   If an employee is absent from workplace while on paid or unpaid leave,
including vacation, sick or family medical leave or worker’s compensation or
employment with the town is terminated followed by immediate reemployment by
the town, without loss of payroll time, then he or she is not considered to
have a break in employment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.030 EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to ensure that all new employees are
adequately orientated to town operations and personnel policies. Each new
employee will receive an orientation packet containing information about the
town, its personnel policies, the Family Medical Leave Act and the benefits for
which the employee is eligible.
   (B)   After receiving a copy of this chapter, an opportunity to read it, and
an opportunity to ask questions about them, each new regular employee shall be
required to sign an “Acknowledgment of Receipt of Policies and Procedures
Handbook”. The acknowledgment will be retained in the employee’s personnel
file.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
TIMEKEEPING AND PAYROLL
§ 34.045 TIMEKEEPING.
   (A)   Accurate recording time worked is the responsibility of every
employee. Federal and state laws require the town to keep an accurate record of
time worked in order to calculate employee pay and benefits. Time worked is all
the time actually spent on the job performing assigned duties.
   (B)   All non-exempt employees must accurately record the time they begin
and end work each day. They also must record the hours of any departure or
absence from work for meals or personal reasons whether paid or unpaid.
   (C)   It is the employee’s responsibility to approve his or her time sheet
to certify the accuracy of all time recorded. The Clerk-Treasurer will review
and then sign the time record before submitting it for payroll processing. The
Clerk-Treasurer may refer a time record to a member of the Town Council for
further review if there is a question regarding a time submission.
   (D)   In addition, if corrections or modifications are made to the time
record, both the employee and the Clerk-Treasurer must verify the accuracy of
the changes by initialing the time record.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for maintaining all time records,
vacation usage and paid time off usage.
   (F)   Each office may utilize employees’ time differently within the
framework of the 40-hour workweek. For this reason, the department head or
elected official will have the discretion to permit individual employees to
arrive or depart earlier or later, or to work through part of a lunch periods
and otherwise adjust their employees’ schedules to meet the demands of the
department while adhering to the 40-hour workweek. The employee’s time sheet
must accurately reflect the beginning and ending time of each period of work
and each day worked.
   (G)   Tampering with time records, or recording time on another employee’s
time record, may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination
of employment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.046 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   The town shall establish the standard workday, workweek and starting
and quitting times for each department, taking into account current and
anticipated workloads, public service needs and other factors. No established
schedule shall be construed as a guarantee of work hours or as a restriction on
the town’s right to restructure the workday or workweek.
   (B)   The standard workweek shall run from 12:01 a.m. Monday to 12:00 a.m.
the following Sunday. The standard office hours for the Town Hall are the
responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer who will post and publicize them as
necessary. The standard office hours for the Utility Department are from 7:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.047 MEAL PERIODS.
   All employees, with the exceptions of those noted below, are provided with
one meal period of one hour in length each workday. Department heads and
elected officials will schedule meal periods to accommodate operating
requirements. Employees should be relieved of all active responsibilities and
restrictions during meal period and will not be compensated for that time.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.048 PAYROLL.
   (A)   Payroll is paid bi-weekly. Paychecks are available on Friday and
employees must pick up their checks at the Town Hall.
   (B)   If a regular payday falls during an employee’s vacation, the
employee’s paycheck will be available upon his or her return from vacation.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.049 PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   Deductions from his or her pay are made for taxes required by law to
be withheld from pay and for certain other items for which the town has been
specifically authorized to make such deductions.
   (B)   The deductions are made as required by federal, state and local
governments or for the convenience of both the employee and the employer in the
administration of certain garnishment withholding orders.
   (C)   A court ordered legal claim against the wages of an employee by a
creditor for non-payment of a debt by legal authority is a garnishment and
shall be recognized and executed by the town. When a garnishment is received
for an employee, the Clerk-Treasurer’s office will notify the employee.
   (D)   Other taxes, such as property taxes, may be deducted from employee
compensation. Under I.C. 6-1.1-22-14, the county’s payroll list must be given
to the County Treasurer bi-annually. The County Treasurer then certifies any
delinquent property taxes owed by a county employee. The code further instructs
the Auditor’s office to make periodic deductions from money due the employee
and direct payment to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.050 OVERTIME.
   (A)   Any employee may be required to work in excess of the normal workday
or workweek to meet operational demands. Overtime will be paid under the
guidelines set out by the FLSA (Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§
201 et seq.) and paid accordingly. Eligibility for overtime shall be based upon
all hours in “active pay status”.
   (B)   Overtime is generally discouraged and is usually performed only when
the Town Council determines it is necessary. All overtime must be approved by
the Town Council in advance, except in unusual or emergency situations.
   (C)   An emergency call-out outside of regularly scheduled work hours will
be considered overtime. An emergency call-out will carry a minimum of two hours
per call at time and one half.
   (D)   Non-exempt (hourly) employees of the town (see provisions of the Fair
Labor Standards Act (FLSA) shall receive overtime pay for all time actually
worked in excess of 40 hours in any workweek at a rate of one and one-half
times the employee’s hourly base rate of pay.
   (E)   Hours worked on Saturday will be paid at a rate of one and one-half
times the employee’s hourly base rate of pay. Hours worked on Sunday will be
paid at a rate of two times the employee’s hourly base rate of pay.
   (F)   For purposes of calculation of overtime, paid vacation and PTO shall
be included as time worked. Holidays and time off for jury duty will be
considered as “hours worked” when computing overtime.
   (G)   All efforts will be made by the department head to limit overtime by
permitting time off during the same work period so that the employee does not
exceed 40 hours worked.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.051 EMERGENCY CLOSINGS.
   (A)   At times, emergencies, such as severe weather, fires, power failures
or earthquakes, can disrupt governmental operations. In extreme cases, these
circumstances may require the closing of a work facility. In the event that
such an emergency occurs during non-working hours, local radio and/or
television stations will be asked to broadcast notification of the closing.
   (B)   When facilities are officially closed due to an emergency declared by
the Town Council, the time off from scheduled work for full-time non-exempt
employees will be paid their regular pay. Part- time employees who are
scheduled to work on a day the operations are closed will also be paid their
regular pay.
   (C)   Employees in essential operations may be asked to work on a day when
operations are officially closed. In these circumstances, employees who work
will receive their regular pay for all hours worked.
   (D)   In county declared weather-related emergencies, employees who can
safely travel to and from work may be asked by their department head or elected
official to report for work due to the office workload or time-sensitive nature
of the work to be performed.
   (E)   When operations are not officially closed, but some employees are
unable to get to report for work, employees may use vacation days, paid time
off or unpaid time off.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
EMPLOYER - EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
§ 34.065 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS.
   (A)   The town is committed to a mutually rewarding and direct relationship
with its employees. Thus, the town attempts to be receptive to constructive
suggestions, criticisms and questions. The town, as part of its commitment to
delivering the highest level of services to our residents and guests, expects
all employees:
      (1)   To treat all residents, guests and suppliers with respect;
      (2)   To represent the town in a positive and ethical manner;
      (3)   To perform assigned tasks in a safe and efficient manner;
      (4)   To attend work as required and to be punctual;
      (5)   To demonstrate a considerate, friendly and constructive attitude
toward fellow employees, department heads and elected officials; and
      (6)   To follow the town and departmental policies and practices.
   (B)   The town retains the sole discretion to exercise all managerial
functions, including the following rights:
      (1)   To dismiss, assign, supervise and discipline employees;
      (2)   To determine and change employee work schedules to meet the needs
of the citizens and guests of the town;
      (3)   To assign employees to other jobs within departments or into other
departments;
      (4)   To determine and adjust the employee number and specific
qualifications of the workforce;
      (5)   To assign duties to employees in accordance with the town’s needs
and requirements and to carry out all ordinary administrative and management
functions; and
      (6)   To establish, change and abolish policies, practices, roles and
regulations as the town works to meet the needs of its citizens.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.066 SUBSTANCE-FREE WORKPLACE.
   The town seeks to promote a safe, healthy working environment for all
employees and to reduce the incidence of injury to person or property and to
reduce absenteeism, tardiness and poor job performance.
   (A)   Prohibitions. The town absolutely prohibits the unlawful manufacture,
distribution, dispensation, possession or use of a controlled substance or
alcohol on town premises or while conducting town business off town premises.
Violation of this policy will subject the employee to disciplinary action up to
and including immediate termination of employment.
   (B)   Definition.
      (1)   For purposes of this policy, DRUGS include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Controlled substances or illegal or synthetic drugs listed under
the Federal Controlled Substances Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq.; and
         (b)   Alcoholic beverages and prescription medications for which the
employee does not possess a valid prescription.
      (2)   An employee who is:
         (a)   Found to be under the influence of alcohol or a controlled
substance while on town property, or while performing a function or fulfilling
a responsibility of his or her town job; or
         (b)   Convicted of a criminal alcohol or drug statute will subject the
employee to disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination of
employment.
      (3)   Town employees will undergo random alcohol and drug testing at the
town’s expense. Employees have two hours from the time they are notified that
they have been selected for a random test to arrive at the independent
screening facility selected by the town.
      (4)   If an employee refuses to participate in a requested drug or
alcohol test, the employee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and
including immediate termination of employment. If the test is positive, the
employee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including immediate
termination of employment.
      (5)   Town employees are subject to a drug test following any accident
with injury that occurs on the job or during a regular workday during which the
employee is working. Unless the employee is hospitalized as a result of
injuries incurred, the employee will have two hours from the time of the
accident to arrive at the independent screening facility selected by the town.
      (6)   If an employee refuses to participate in the drug or alcohol test,
the employee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
immediate termination of employment.
   (C)   Employees that seek assistance. If an employee needs assistance with
alcohol or substance abuse, that employee should notify a member of the Town
Council of his or her need. For purposes of rehabilitation, the Family Medical
Leave Act (“FMLA”), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq., may apply.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.067 UNIFORM POLICY.
   The following uniform policy shall be followed for the departments
designated below.
   (A)   Utility department employees.
      (1)   New employees will be provided with an initial set of uniform items
as prescribed by the department head after completion of their introductory
period. Following the initial distribution, each employee will be reimbursed in
the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time annually for
the purchase of uniforms, work boots and other prescribed uniform necessities.
      (2)   All employees must wear the prescribed uniform for their
department, which has identifying logo of the town supplied by the town.
   (B)   Police Department employees.
      (1)   New employees will be provided with an initial set of uniform items
as prescribed by the Town Marshal. Following the initial distribution, each
employee will be reimbursed in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time annually for the purchase of uniforms and other prescribed
uniform necessities.
      (2)   All employees must wear the prescribed uniform for their
department, which has identifying logo of the town supplied by the town.
      (3)   These uniforms are provided and maintained at no cost to the
employee. All employees who are provided uniforms must wear them while on the
clock for the town. Worn out uniforms and equipment must be returned to the
department prior to purchase of replacement pieces.
      (4)   The Town Marshal, with approval of the Town Council, will address
any other uniform requirements.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.068 PERSONAL APPEARANCE.
   (A)   A clean and neat appearance is required.
   (B)   It is understood that some employees may become dirty during their
work schedule. Every effort should be made to provide the community with a neat
and clean appearance when possible.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.069 TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   A request to travel form shall be completed by all persons traveling
at the expense of the town.
      (1)   A request to travel form shall be completed by the employee for all
travel. If overnight accommodations are required, the arrangements will be made
through the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, prior to travel, must approve a request to
travel form. A copy will be provided to the Town Council. Permission for
overnight travel must be authorized by the Town Council.
   (B)   Travel advances and payment for payment of registration, travel and/or
lodging in advance may be requested at the traveling employee’s discretion.
      (1)   Travel advances should be limited to the greatest extent possible
by paying as many fixed fees as possible in advance.
      (2)   Advance payment requests shall be noted on the request to travel
form. Once the travel has been approved, an appropriate completed payment
voucher should be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer. A note should be attached
to the payment voucher stating the date the advance is needed. The payment will
then be processed in the accounts payable cycle immediately before the date
needed.
      (3)   All cost of travel shall be estimated on the request to travel
form, regardless of the form of payment. This includes registration,
transportation, lodging and meals, including those paid in advance.
      (4)   Use of advance arrangements including early registration discounts
should be accomplished whenever possible.
   (C)   Personal expenses incurred in traveling are not reimbursable,
including, but not limited to, personal telephone calls, laundry, entertainment
and alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.070 HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   To maintain compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act of
1970, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., the town has established that, as a
matter of policy, a safe and healthful workplace shall be provided for all
employees. The Town Council has the ultimate responsibility and authority for
compliance with the federal and state laws pertaining to occupational safety
and health.
   (B)   Each employee is to work in a safe manner and observe the safety
procedures established by the Town Council.
   (C)   Any accident hazards or unsafe conditions of equipment are to be
corrected or reported to the Town Council immediately for its action. The Town
Council has been designated the central point of contact for OSHA/IOSHA issues.
He or she will be responsible directly to the Town Council for implementation
for the OSHA/IOSHA safety programs and standards. Nothing in this appointment
shall reduce the responsibility or authority of department heads from the
effective and ongoing performance of OSHA/IOSHA.
   (D)   The town’s compliance with applicable OSHA/IOSHA laws, standards,
policies and the like shall be monitored, documented and reviewed by the Town
Council. The Town Council is authorized to establish such administrative and
record keeping procedures as may be necessary to effectively evaluate and
respond to the safety and health of town work places and safe working standards
and training, which involves all town employees regarding effective compliance
with OSHA/IOSHA.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.071 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The town provides a comprehensive workers’ compensation insurance
program at no cost to employees. This program covers any injury or illness
sustained in the course of employment that requires medical, surgical or
hospital treatment. Workers’ compensation insurance provides benefits after a
short waiting period or, if the employee is hospitalized, immediately.
   (B)   All employees are covered under the town’s Workers’ Compensation
Insurance Plan.
   (C)   Workers’ compensation insurance provides coverage for work-related
injuries and illnesses as required under the workers’ compensation laws of the
state. Workers’ compensation insurance covers all authorized expenses related
to the treatment of a work-related illness or injury and provides “lost time
benefits” when an employee must be absent from work on a workers’ compensation
disability leave.
   (D)   Employees who sustain work-related injuries or illnesses must report
the incident to the Clerk- Treasurer immediately.
   (E)   Workers’ compensation forms will be filed for all injuries. All
employees will file their reports on the day the accident occurred. The degree
of injury does not matter. If the employee has complications later, a properly
completed form will allow a thorough investigation to be made in order to
determine if treatment is to be covered by workers’ compensation.
   (F)   If an employee is injured and is physically unable to complete the
balance of the workday, he or she shall be paid for the remainder of that day.
Further absence may require the employee to apply for benefits pursuant to
workers’ compensation.
   (G)   Neither the town, nor the insurance carrier, will be liable for the
payment of workers’ compensation benefits for injuries that occur during an
employee’s voluntary participation in any off-duty recreational, social or
athletic activity sponsored by the town.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.072 BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS.
   (A)   All employees of the town may have occupational exposure to blood or
other potentially infectious material. Universal precautions will be observed
at the town in order to prevent contact with blood or infectious materials. All
blood and potentially infectious material will be considered infectious
regardless of the perceived status of the source individual.
   (B)   Employees should not compress trash in waste cans, as it would be easy
to be stuck by a needle or other sharp object. Employees should also not place
their hands on the bottom of trash bags for support as they could be stuck by
sharp objects in the bag. Employees should examine the bags before picking them
up to be sure there are no sharp objects sticking out of the bag.
   (C)   Utility employees should not use their hands to clean out impellers or
pumps since a used syringe may be lodged inside. A tool should be used and the
pump disassembled and cleaned out.
   (D)   Utility employees should also use caution when shoveling out pits or
tanks, as contaminated objects could be present in the sludge.
   (E)   Hand washing facilities are also available to employees who incur
exposure to potentially infectious materials. Employees should wash as soon as
possible.
   (F)   Protective gloves should be worn whenever possible.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.073 TOOLS, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Employees are prohibited from using and loaning town vehicles,
materials, tools, equipment and labor for personal or private use regardless of
whether it is during work or non-work time.
   (B)   Employees may not expend labor during scheduled work hours for work
not related to town business. This prohibits any employee from performing
private work for himself or herself, another employee or a non-employee.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.074 USE OF TOWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any employee of the town who is required to operate a town vehicle in
the course of his or her employment shall be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions:
      (1)   Periodic record checks at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles at least
annually;
      (2)   Use of seat belts by all drivers and passengers;
      (3)   Reassignment or other appropriate personnel action in the event of
license revocation, suspension or arrest for a DUI or criminal recklessness.
Employees who are required to operate town vehicles during the course of their
employment must immediately report any condition that adversely affects their
ability to operate such vehicle(s) and/or equipment;
      (4)   Must be able to meet insurability standards/requirements of the
town liability insurance provider; and
      (5)   Maintain a valid driver’s license.
   (B)   In addition, employees must use assigned town vehicles, when
available, for the purpose(s) authorized and must not permit unauthorized or
personal passengers in the town vehicles.
   (C)   Personal use of the vehicle should be kept to minimum and employees
are expected to use good judgment when it come to using the vehicle for
personal use.
   (D)   Reimbursement for necessary emergency road service and repairs,
parking and highway-related tolls require appropriate receipts for
reimbursement.
   (E)   In the event of an accident, employees must do the following:
      (1)   Assist any injured party if possible, call the town police or
appropriate police department, and call for an ambulance, if necessary;
      (2)   Do not move any vehicles unless instructed to do so by proper
police authority;
      (3)   Write down all pertinent facts such as the other driver’s name,
address, telephone number, license plate number, driver’s license number,
Social Security number and name of town’s insurance and policy number and the
name, address and telephone number of any injured party or witness;
      (4)   Do not admit any fault or make any oral or written statements but
do give the name, address, telephone number and the like, as required; and
      (5)   Notify the department head and submit a written report as soon as
possible.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.075 TAKE HOME VEHICLES.
   (A)   Police Department vehicles may be assigned to employees in order to
meet the goals and objectives of the Police Department. Any employee who is
provided with a take home vehicle must:
      (1)   Wear safety belts properly fastened about the body and ensure
appropriate passengers are properly seat belted;
      (2)   Not allow personal passengers in the vehicle;
      (3)   Not allow anyone else to drive his or her vehicle;
      (4)   Personal use of the vehicle should be kept to minimum and employees
are expected to use good judgment when it come to using the vehicle for
personal use;
      (5)   No employee shall operate, or be caused to operate a department
vehicle, whether on duty or off duty, after consuming an intoxicating beverages
and or under the influence of a controlled substance;
      (6)   Consider road conditions, traffic and weather conditions at all
times while operating a departmental vehicle;
      (7)   Lock his or her vehicles upon leaving them unattended for an
extended period of time;
      (8)   Employees shall be responsible for the conduct and appearance of
all passengers at all times so as not to reflect negatively upon the
Department; and
      (9)   Departmental vehicles shall only be operated within town and
adjoining counties, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   While on official town business;
         (b)   While attending pre-approved training sessions; and
         (c)   With approval from the Town Council.
   (B)   Police officers should refer to their departmental SOP for further
instructions.
   (C)   Any employee involved in an accident must submit to a post accident
drug and alcohol test as soon as possible after an accident, whenever he or she
receives a citation for a moving violation involving the accident, and:
      (1)   Either a person is injured because of the accident and the injuries
require immediate medical treatment to the person away from the accident scene;
and
      (2)   One or more motor vehicles involved in the accident incur truck
disabling damage and must be transported away from the accident scene by a tow
or another vehicle.
   (D)   An employee who is required to take a post-accident drug and alcohol
test will, at the town’s discretion, either be assigned to a position which
does not require driving town vehicles, or placed on non-disciplinary
suspension with pay while awaiting the post accident test results.
   (E)   An employee who tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol, or who
refuses or fails to submit to a post accident drug and alcohol test will be
subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge. Employees may
not use town vehicles for outside employment unless the purpose of the job
relates to security purposes. The Town Council will have final approval on any
outside employment that involves the use of a town vehicle.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.076 NO SOLICITATION AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The following policy on solicitation and distribution is hereby
adopted by the Town Council as to all town premises including, but not limited
to, the various administrative offices and work sites.
   (B)   Non-employees of the town who intend a solicitation and distribution
visit to the interior premises of the town’s facility shall give the Town
Council and/or department head not less than 24 hours’ notice of each visit.
Such notice shall be accompanied by a list of persons intending access and a
designated time. All solicitation and distribution activity by non-employees
shall be confined to non-work time and in non-work areas designated by the town
and must not jeopardize health and safety.
   (C)   Exceptions to this are at the sole discretion of the Town Council and/
or department head and may include such persons as suppliers, vendors and
manufacturer’s representatives who make regular visits with the continuing
knowledge of the Town Council and/or department head.
   (D)   Employees of the town are not permitted to engage in solicitation of
others. Employees may conduct solicitation and distribution activity in work
and non-work areas, but only if both employees are on non-work time and the
solicitation is non-coercive and consented to by the employee being solicited.
   (E)   The Town Council or department heads may regulate any solicitation and
distribution activity by any employee or non-employee, which disrupts or
interferes with the normal work of the town on its premises or in areas under
the operational control of the town.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.077 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   In the course of employment with the town, employees may have access
to information, which is confidential, including, but not limited to,
information about any new town projects, accounting records, personnel records,
the community and their families.
   (B)   He or she shall not use, disclose or divulge the confidential
information to any third party, without prior authorization from the employee/
Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.078 NO SMOKING AND THE USE OF TOBACCO OR E CIGARETTE.
   (A)   State law (HEA #1149, being I.C. 7.1-5-12-4) prohibits smoking in any
of the town’s places of employment and within eight feet of any public entrance
to the town’s places of employment.
   (B)   Employees have a responsibility to report violations by a member of
the public or other employees to the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Council. An
employee may do so without fear of reprisal or retaliation. Employees who
violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination. In addition, any person who smokes in a non-smoking area commits a
Class B infraction or a Class A infraction if he or she has at least three
prior violations.
   (C)   This policy applies to all department heads, elected officials,
employees, citizens and visitors.
   (D)   Violations of this policy by others in the presence of employees shall
be handled in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Town
Council for all premises under the control of the town.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND BEHAVIOR
§ 34.090 ANTI-HARASSMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to provide a productive work environment
and to prohibit all verbal or physical conduct by any employee, visitor or
vendor that improperly harasses, disrupts or interferes with another’s work
performance or creates an intimidating, offensive or hostile work environment.
Actions, words, jokes or comments based on an individual’s sex, race,
ethnicity, age, religion or any other legally protected characteristic will not
be tolerated.
   (B)   While all forms of improper harassment are prohibited, special
attention should be paid to the meaning of and prohibition of sexual
harassment. This zero tolerance policy prohibits not only conduct and language
that constitute unlawful sexual harassment, as defined by the law and the
courts, but all inappropriate behavior having sexual content.
   (C)   Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal
or physical conduct of a sexual nature that has the purpose or effect of
creating a hostile, intimidating or offensive work environment is prohibited
and will not be tolerated.
   (D)   Any employee who wants to report an incident of sexual or other
unlawful harassment should promptly report the matter to any member of the Town
Council.
   (E)   If a member of the Town Council is unavailable or the employee
believes it would be inappropriate to contact that person, the employee should
immediately contact the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. Employees can raise concerns
and make reports without fear of reprisal.
   (F)   Any elected official who becomes aware of possible sexual or other
unlawful harassment should promptly advise the President of the Town Council.
   (G)   All complaints of violations of this policy will be promptly referred
to an investigation team appointed by the Town Council for investigation,
findings and recommendation of sanctions, whenever warranted.
   (H)   All complaints under this policy will be handled as discretely as
possible. However, due to the fact that employers are required by law to
thoroughly investigate all complaints of harassment, anonymity and secrecy
cannot be guaranteed to any party or witness in the course of an investigation.
The law requires, and the town does reserve the right, to investigate
complaints as appropriate and to inform individuals who have a legitimate right
to know.
   (I)   (1)   Employees engaging in sexual or other unlawful harassment will
be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of
employment, and counseling may be required in addition to or in lieu of other
disciplinary action.
      (2)   Vendors will be subject to contractual remedies up to and including
forfeiture.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.091 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Employees have an obligation to conduct business within guidelines
that prohibit actual or potential conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest
are defined by state law (I.C. 36-1-20.2), which may, under some circumstances,
prohibit a transaction or require written disclosure and approval before a
contract or transaction is entered. Employees may refer questions about actual
or potential conflicts to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   A town employee is considered to have resigned his or her position
with the town if the employee assumes the elected executive office of the town
or becomes an elected member of the town’s legislative or fiscal body after 1-
1-2013.
   (C)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if the
elected official files a full disclosure, which must:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Describes the contract or purchase;
      (3)   Describes the relationship of the official to the business;
      (4)   Affirmed under penalty of perjury;
      (5)   Submitted to the legislative body prior to final action; and
      (6)   Filed (within 15 days of final action) with the state’s Board of
Accounts (SBOA) and the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Each elected official shall, by December 31 of each year, certify in
writing subject to the penalties of perjury, on forms provided by the town that
the official is in compliance with the provisions of this policy.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.092 BUSINESS ETHICS.
   (A)   All employees are expected to maintain the highest possible ethical/
moral standards and to perform within the laws of the state and other rules and
regulations as may be set forth by the employer. It is important to remember
that the compensation of all employees is paid through taxes and user fees.
Therefore, each employee assumes the responsibility to service the public in an
honest, effective and friendly manner.
   (B)   No employee shall use his or her position with the town for personal
gain, nor shall he or she engage in any business or transaction, which is in
conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties.
   (C)   No employee shall accept any valuable gratuity, whether in the form of
a service, loan, item or promise from any person, firm or corporation which is
interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in business dealings
with the town; nor shall employees accept any valuable gift, favor or item that
may tend to influence an employee in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (D)   (1)   No employee shall grant any improper favor, service or item in
the discharge of his or her duty.
      (2)   Therefore, a limit in an amount as set by the Town Council from
time to time will be considered reasonable for gifts that might consist of
luncheons or dinners at various meetings, seminars or conventions.
   (E)   No employee shall, without proper and legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
town.
   (F)   No employee shall represent private interests in any action or
proceedings against the town in any matter in which the town is a party.
   (G)   No employee shall engage in, accept private employment or render
services for private interests, when such employment or service is incompatible
with the proper discharge of his or her official duties, or would tend to
impair his or her independent judgment or action in the performance of his or
her official duties.
   (H)   Police personnel are subject to the policies established under the
town’s police general regulations and general orders, as well as policies in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.093 ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY.
   (A)   To maintain a safe and productive work environment, the town expects
employees to be reliable and to be punctual in reporting for scheduled work.
Absenteeism and tardiness place a burden on other employees and on the town.
   (B)   In the instances when employees cannot avoid being late to work or are
unable to work as scheduled, they should notify their department heads or
elected officials as soon as possible in advance of the anticipated tardiness
or absence.
   (C)   Unacceptable attendance and excessive tardiness are disruptive. Either
may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
   (D)   In addition, if an employee is late, that employee may be subject to
appropriate disciplinary action, unless he or she offers to the department head
a written reason for being late which is deemed acceptable by the department
head.
   (E)   Elected officials and department heads are responsible for notifying
the Clerk-Treasurer of absenteeism and tardiness for their respective
employees.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.094 EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND WORK RULES.
   (A)   To ensure orderly operations and provide the best possible work
environment, the town expects employees to follow rules of conduct that will
protect the interests and safety of all employees and the organization.
   (B)   It is not possible to list all the forms of behavior that are
considered unacceptable in the workplace. The following are examples of
infractions of rules of conduct that may result in disciplinary action, up to
and including termination of employment:
      (1)   Theft or inappropriate removal or possession of property;
      (2)   Fighting or threatening violence in the workplace;
      (3)   Boisterous or disruptive activity in the workplace;
      (4)   Negligence or improper conduct leading to damage of employer-owned
or customer-owned property;
      (5)   Insubordination or other disrespectful conduct;
      (6)   Violation of safety or health rules;
      (7)   Smoking in prohibited areas;
      (8)   Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials, such as
explosives or firearms, in the workplace;
      (9)   Excessive absenteeism or any absence without notices;
      (10)   Unauthorized disclosure of business “secrets” or confidential
information;
      (11)   Violation of personnel policies;
      (12)   Unsatisfactory performance or conduct;
      (13)   Unnecessary visits by employees to other offices;
      (14)   Conducting personal business during normal working hours to the
extent that it interferes with the employees duties and responsibilities; and
      (15)   Inappropriate personal use of computers.
   (C)   Employment with the town is at the mutual consent of the town and the
employee, and either party may terminate that relationship at any time, with or
without cause, and with or without advance notice in accordance with federal
and state laws.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.095 COMMISSION OF A FELONY OR UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   (1)   Any employee found guilty of a felony may be subject to
immediate dismissal.
      (2)   An employee charged with a felony or found participating in
felonious activity either during work hours or while off duty will be subject
to an unpaid leave of absence from work until a court of law establishes
innocence or guilt.
   (B)   Any employee found guilty of a misdemeanor may be subject to
suspension or discharge.
   (C)   Misdemeanors that involve town vehicles/property, or in which the
associate behavior reflects poorly upon the employee and/or the town, will be
treated similarly.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.096 PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE POLICY.
   (A)   Employees are subject to disciplinary action when their performance,
work habits, attitude or conduct are unsatisfactory. Typically, disciplinary
action will involve four steps; however, steps may be skipped or an employee
may be immediately terminated depending on the seriousness of the conduct as
determined by the Town Council.
      (1)   Verbal warning. A verbal warning is typically, but not always, the
first in the disciplinary process. Verbal warnings are issued in a meeting with
the Town Council. The Council will discuss the warning with the employee and
present a written version of the warning to the employee for his or her
signature. A copy of the warning will be placed in the employee’s personnel
file.
      (2)   Written warning. A written warning is typically, but not always,
the second step in the disciplinary process. At this step, the employee meets
with the Town Council, the employee’s performance or conduct infraction is
presented in written form, discussed and the employee acknowledges the conduct
by signing the written description of the conduct. A copy of the warning will
be placed in the employee’s personnel file.
      (3)   Final written warning. A final written warning is typically, but
not always, the third step in the process. At this step, the employee meets
with the Town Council, the employee’s performance or conduct infraction is
presented in written form and discussed with the employee. The employee
acknowledges the warning by signing the written description of the conduct and
given a copy of the warning. A copy of the warning will be placed in the
employee’s personnel file.
      (4)   Termination. This is the final step in the disciplinary process. At
this step, the employee meets with the Council, the employee’s performance or
conduct infraction is presented in written form, discussed and the employee and
the Town Council recommends termination. The final action on termination of the
employee will take place in an open meeting.
   (B)   Although the above steps are typically used, the seriousness of the
violation may require that the town begin at any step in the procedure. These
guidelines do not prevent, limit or delay disciplinary action, including
immediate termination when the Council deems such action to be appropriate.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.097 PROBLEM RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The employee must report any complaint to his or her immediate
supervisor. If the complaint concerns the immediate supervisor, the employee
must report the complaint to a member of the Town Council or the Town Attorney.
   (B)   The person to whom the complaint was made shall immediately meet with
the employee and make a written record of the complaint. Upon review, the
employee and the person to whom the complaint was made shall sign and date the
written complaint.
   (C)   Within one day of a written complaint being signed, the town shall
undertake a full investigation of the complaint. The investigation shall be
completed within ten calendar days unless additional time is authorized by the
full Council.
   (D)   Within two days of completing the investigation, the town shall issue
a written response to the employee stating what action, if any, will result
from the employee’s written complaint.
   (E)   While not every problem can be resolved to everyone’s total
satisfaction, it is believed that discussion of problems will best assure a
harmonious work environment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.098 COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT, INTERNET AND E-MAIL.
   (A)   All town employees have a responsibility to use the electric media
provided in a manner, which both enhances the image of the town and is
productive in its service and operation.
   (B)   This section applies to all town employees, not subject to a prior
agreement or contrary to provisions of law.
   (C)   Contracts and licenses with software program providers define the
limits of software program use. Employees are forbidden to use any software
program contrary to the provisions of these contracts and licenses. The town
provides the software programs that are anticipated to be needed by employees
in performing their job responsibilities. If any employee believes that he or
she needs additional software programs, he or she should consult with his or
her department head.
   (D)   Employees shall not copy or install any software program of any kind
on the town’s electronic media or any part thereof without the prior
authorization from the designed system administrator. When so authorized, the
employee shall ensure that the software program has been checked for viruses
and confirm that fact with the designed system administrator before
installation. Employees will follow the guidelines and procedures outlined in
regards to downloading software of files.
   (E)   Contracts and licenses with hardware providers define the limits of
hardware use. Employees are forbidden to use any hardware contrary to the
provisions of these contracts and licenses. The town provides the hardware that
is anticipated to be needed by employees in performing their job
responsibilities.
   (F)   If an employee believes that he or she needs additional hardware, the
employee should consult with the Town Council. Employees shall not install or
attach any hardware of any kind to the town’s electronic media or any part
thereof without prior authorization from the designed system administrator.
Employees may have access at other times through written or expressed consent
of the Town Council. As a general rule, beepers/pagers and cell phones are
provided only to employees who need them to perform their jobs. Employees are
to maintain beepers/pagers so that they are always in working order. Employees
“on call” are to keep their beepers/pagers on at all times.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.099 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   See §§
34.150 through
34.154 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.100 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   (1)   To serve the best interest of the employee, citizens and town
government, it is the policy of the town to restrict certain types of political
activity without infringing upon the employee’s right to exercise his or her
suffrage as a citizen.
      (2)   The purpose is to safeguard the employee from political pressure to
support financially or otherwise any political party or person.
      (3)   In addition, this policy will safeguard the interest of the public,
who all municipal employees must serve without political bias and without
regard to their political opinions or affiliations.
   (B)   This policy has been developed not to restrict an employee’s
constitutional rights, but to dramatize and protect the neutrality of public
service personnel.
      (1)   All employees are prohibited from using their position to sell,
solicit or distribute tickets, badges, pamphlets, dodgers, handbills or any
other material not pertaining to town employment during working hours.
      (2)   All employees may not introduce, guide or recommend any candidate
for public service on town property.
      (3)   Employees may not participate in any partisan or non-partisan
political activity while on- duty or off-duty in a uniform required by, used by
or identified with any department of town government.
      (4)   Employees may not use town vehicles for any partisan or non-
partisan political activities.
   (C)   Any town employee found violating any provisions of this policy is
subject to reprimand, suspension or dismissal from town employment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
§ 34.115 INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Regular full-time employees are eligible for the benefits package as
selected on an annual basis by the Town Council. Employees may be responsible
for contributing to the cost of their benefits as determined by the Town
Council.
   (B)   All benefits provided to employees are expressly subject to the terms,
conditions and eligibility requirements set forth in the formal plan documents
governing the town’s benefits plans. No deductions will be made until an
employee formally enrolls in a plan and gives the town authorization to make
deductions.
   (C)   The town does not guarantee the continuation of current insurance
benefits or any insurance benefits to employees on a permanent basis.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.116 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND (PERF).
   Regular full-time employees are eligible to participate in PERF. An employee
must enroll in the plan on his or her first day of employment. A designated
percentage of pay, as defined by the state code, will automatically be deducted
as the employee’s contribution. The town contributes a designated percentage to
the plan, as defined by state code.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.117 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The Town Council will establish a holiday schedule each year and post
it prior to the beginning of the upcoming year. The holiday schedule may be
amended by the Town Council, with written notice, distributed to all
departments within the town government.
   (B)   Regular full-time and introductory employees are eligible for holiday
pay. Part-time employees who are scheduled to work on a holiday are also
eligible for holiday pay. Holiday pay will be based on the employee’s base pay
rate, as of the date of the holiday times the number of hours the employee
would otherwise have worked on that day. Employees may not substitute another
day off instead of the designated day off.
   (C)   If the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following
Monday; if it falls on Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday.
   (D)   Employees must work their last scheduled workdays immediately
preceding the holiday and their first scheduled workdays immediately following
the holiday to be eligible for holiday pay. This provision will not apply if
the employee is scheduled to be on vacation.
   (E)   If a non-exempt employee works on a holiday, he or she shall receive
his or her holiday pay and be compensated at time and one-half for all hours
worked on a holiday.
   (F)   If a holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, the vacation day
will not be charged against his or her vacation leave. Employees must be in a
paid status the day before and the day after a holiday in order to be paid for
the holiday.
   (G)   An employee scheduled to return from a non-paid leave on the day after
a holiday will not be paid for the holiday. Employees who are in an unpaid
status of FMLA leave are not eligible for holiday pay.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.118 VACATION.
   (A)   Regular full-time and regular part-time employees shall be entitled to
annual vacation leave with pay according to the following schedule. Once
employees enter an eligible employment classification, they begin to earn paid
vacation time based on their length of service for the upcoming anniversary
year, as outlined in the schedule below.
 
Length of Continuous Employment Vacation
6 months - 1 year               5 days
1 - 5 years                     10 days
5 - 10 years                    15 days
10 - 15 years                   20 days
Over 15 years                   25 days
 
   (B)   Employees are encouraged and expected to use provided vacation time.
   (C)   Employees shall give complete a vacation request form and submit it to
the Clerk-Treasurer at least ten working days prior to the time of their
scheduled vacation. An employee may take any portion or all of his or her
allowed vacation up to a maximum of two weeks during the calendar year.
   (D)   No unused vacation balance will be carried forward to the next
anniversary year without Town Council approval. The employee may be able to
redeem up to 50% of his or her earned vacation per year.
   (E)   A part-time employee shall be granted vacation time based on his or
her length of service for the upcoming anniversary year and the schedule below.
 
Length of Continuous Employment Vacation
6 months - 1 year               20 hours
1 - 5 years                     40 hours
Over 5 years                    60 hours
 
   (F)   Regular full-time and regular part-time employees who leave their
employment on a voluntary basis will be paid for all unused vacation time upon
termination of employment. If the employee has taken less than the vacation
time he or she has earned, payment will be made for the balance of earned, but
unused, vacation.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.119 PAID TIME OFF.
   (A)   Regular full-time employees will be granted ten working days per
calendar year of paid time off. Regular part-time employees will be granted
five working days of paid time off per calendar year.
   (B)   Except in the case of an emergency, employees must notify the Clerk-
Treasurer 24 hours in advance. New hires are eligible for paid time off upon
completion of six months of employment.
   (C)   Paid time off will not accrue from year to year. The employee will not
be paid for unused paid time off at the time of termination.
   (D)   Employees who are off work for five or more consecutive days due to
illness or injury must provide doctors’ statements to return to work.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.120 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   Bereavement leave must be arranged through a written request. The
request must be executed by the employee. It must state the relationship
between the deceased and the employee, and the length of time needed for the
requested absence.
   (B)   All regular, full-time employees may be granted a paid leave of up to
five working days in the event of the deaths in the employees’ immediate
families. EMPLOYEE’S IMMEDIATE FAMILY, for purposes of this section, shall mean
an employee’s spouse, parent, child or any family member residing in the same
household, or anyone standing in the position of parent of an employee.
   (C)   In the event of the death of a grandmother, grandfather, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, mother-in- law, father-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law
of the employee may be granted up to two days per year with pay.
   (D)   If additional time is requested and approved by the Town Council, the
employee an employee may use paid time off or vacation time, if available.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.121 JURY DIRTY.
   (A)   If a full-time employee is called for jury duty during any portion of
the employee’s regular scheduled working day, the employee will be paid the
difference between jury pay and the employee’s regular base pay.
   (B)   The employee will be expected to report for work following jury duty,
if a reasonable amount of time remains during his or her scheduled workday. If
any employee is called for jury duty or subpoenaed to testify in a court of
law, outside of his or her regularly scheduled working hours, all compensation
received for such court service shall be retained by the employee.
   (C)   The town will not reimburse employees when appearing in court for
criminal or civil cases, when the case is being heard in connection with the
employee’s personal matters, such as traffic court, divorce proceedings,
custody, appearing as directed with juvenile and the like. These absences would
be leave without pay, vacation or paid time off.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.122 FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   The town will comply with the Family and Medical Leave Act, being 29
U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq., and implement regulations as revised effective 2-1-
2013. The town posts the mandatory FMLA Notice of Employee Rights and
Responsibilities Under the Family and Medical Act on the town’s bulletin
boards. At the time of hire, new employees will be provided with this notice as
part of its employee orientation.
   (B)   The purpose of this policy is to provide employees with a general
description of their FMLA rights. In the event of any conflict between this
policy and the applicable law, employees will be afforded all rights required
by law.
   (C)   If employees have any questions, concerns or disputes with this
policy, they should contact the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   (1)   General provisions. Under this policy, the town will grant up to
12 weeks (or up to 26 weeks of military caregiver leave to care for a covered
service member with a serious injury or illness) during a 12-month period to
eligible employees. The leave may be paid, unpaid or a combination of paid and
unpaid leave, depending on the circumstances of the leave and as specified in
this policy.
      (2)   Eligibility. To qualify for leave under this policy, the employee
must meet all of the following conditions.
         (a)   The employee must have worked for the town for 12 months or 52
weeks. The 12 months or 52 weeks need not have been consecutive. Separate
periods of employment will be counted; provided that, the break in service does
not exceed seven years. Separate periods of employment will be counted if the
break in service exceeds seven years due to National Guard or Reserve military
service obligations or when there is a written agreement, stating the town’s
intention to rehire the employee after the service break. For eligibility
purposes, an employee will be considered to have been employed for an entire
week even if the employee was on the payroll for only part of a week or if the
employee is on leave during the week.
         (b)   The employee must have worked at least 1,250 hours during the
12-month period immediately before the date when the leave is requested to
commence. The principles established under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA),
being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., determine the number of hours worked by an
employee. The FLSA does not include time spent on paid or unpaid leave as hours
worked. Consequently, these hours of leave will not be counted in determining
the 1,250 hours eligibility test for an employee under FMLA.
      (3)   Type of leave covered.
         (a)   To qualify as FMLA leave under this policy, the employee must be
taking leave for one of the reasons listed below:
            1.   The birth of a child and in order to care for that child;
            2.   The placement of a child for adoption or foster care and to
care for the newly placed child;
            3.   To care for a spouse, child or parent with a serious health
condition (described below); and/or
            4.   The serious health condition (described below) of the
employee.
         (b)   An employee may take leave because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform the functions of the employee’s
position.
         (c)   A SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION is defined as a condition that
requires inpatient care at a hospital, hospice or residential medical care
facility, including any period of incapacity or any subsequent treatment in
connection with such inpatient care or a condition that requires continuing
care by a licensed health care provider.
         (d)   This policy covers illnesses of a serious and long-term nature,
resulting in recurring or lengthy absences. Generally, a chronic or long-term
health condition that would result in a period of three consecutive days of
incapacity with the first visit to the health care provider within seven days
of the onset of the incapacity and a second visit within 30 days of the
incapacity would be considered a serious health condition. For chronic
conditions requiring periodic health care visits for treatment, such visits
must take place at least twice a year.
         (e)   Employees with questions about what illnesses are covered under
this FMLA policy or under the town’s paid time off policy are encouraged to
consult with the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (f)   If an employee takes paid time off for a condition that
progresses into a serious health condition and the employee requests unpaid
leave as provided under this policy, the town may designate all or some portion
of related leave taken as leave under this policy, to the extent that the
earlier leave meets the necessary qualifications.
      (4)   Qualifying exigency.
         (a)   Qualifying exigency leave for families of members of the
National Guard or Reserves or of a regular component of the armed forces when
the covered military member is on covered active duty or called to covered
active duty.
         (b)   An employee whose spouse, son, daughter or parent either has
been notified of an impending call or order to covered active military duty or
who is already on covered active duty may take up to 12 weeks of leave for
reasons related to or affected by the family member’s call-up or service. The
qualifying exigency must be one of the following:
            1.   Short-notice deployment;
            2.   Military events and activities;
            3.   Child care and school activities;
            4.   Financial and legal arrangements;
            5.   Counseling;
            6.   Rest and recuperation;
            7.   Post-deployment activities; and
            8.   Additional activities that arise out of active duty; provided
that, the town and employee agree, including agreement on timing and duration
of the leave.
         (c)   Eligible employees are entitled to FMLA leave to care for a
current member of the armed forces, including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, or a member of the armed forces, the National Guard or Reserves who
is on the temporary disability retired list, who has a serious injury or
illness incurred in the line of duty on active duty for which he or she is
undergoing medical treatment, recuperation or therapy; or, otherwise, in
outpatient status; or otherwise on the temporary disability retired list.
Eligible employees may not take leave under this provision to care for former
members of the armed forces, former members of the National Guard and Reserves
and members on the permanent disability retired list.
         (d)   In order to care for a covered service member, an eligible
employee must be the spouse, son, daughter or parent, or next of kin of a
covered service member.
         (e)   A SON OR DAUGHTER OF A COVERED SERVICE MEMBER means the covered
service member’s biological, adopted or foster child, stepchild, legal ward or
a child for whom the covered service member stood in loco parentis, and who is
of any age.
         (f)   A PARENT OF A COVERED SERVICE MEMBER means a covered service
member’s biological, adoptive, step or foster father or mother, or any other
individual who stood in loco parentis to the covered service member. This term
does not include parents “in law”.
         (g)   Under the FMLA, a SPOUSE means a husband or wife as defined
under the law in the state where the employee resides.
         (h)   The NEXT OF KIN OF A COVERED SERVICE MEMBER is the nearest blood
relative, other than the covered service member’s spouse, parent, son or
daughter, in the following order of priority: blood relatives who have been
granted legal custody of the service member by court decree or statutory
provisions; brothers and sisters; grandparents; aunts and uncles; and first
cousins, unless the covered service member has specifically designated in
writing another blood relative as his or her nearest blood relative for
purposes of military caregiver leave under the FMLA.
         (i)   When no such designation is made, and there are multiple family
members with the same level of relationship to the covered service member, all
such family members shall be considered the covered service member’s next of
kin and may take FMLA leave to provide care to the covered service member,
either consecutively or simultaneously. When such designation has been made,
the designated individual shall be deemed to be the covered service member’s
only next of kin. For example, if a covered service member has three siblings
and has not designated a blood relative to provide care, all three siblings
would be considered the covered service member’s next of kin. Alternatively,
where a covered service member has a sibling(s) and designates a cousin as his
or her next of kin for FMLA purposes, then only the designate cousin is
eligible as the covered service member’s next of kin. The town is permitted to
require an employee to provide confirmation of covered family relationship to
the covered service member pursuant to division (D)(4)(j) below.
         (j)   COVERED ACTIVE DUTY means:
            1.   COVERED ACTIVE DUTY for members of a regular component of the
armed forces means duty during deployment of the member with the armed forces
to a foreign country;
            2.   COVERED ACTIVE DUTY for members of the reserve components of
the armed forces (members of the U.S. National Guard and Reserves) means duty
during deployment of the member with the armed forces to a foreign country
under a call or order to active duty in a contingency operation as defined in
10 U.S.C. § 101(a)(13)(B) in the case of a member of a regular component of the
armed forces, duty during the deployment of the member with the armed forces to
a foreign country; and
            3.   The leave may commence as soon as the individual receives the
call-up notice (son or daughter for this type of FMLA leave is defined the same
as for child for other types of FMLA leave, except that the person does not
have to be a minor). This type of leave would be counted toward the employee’s
12-week maximum of FMLA leave in a 12-month period:
               a.   Military caregiver leave (also known as covered service
member leave) to care for an injured or ill service member or veteran.
               b.   An employee whose son, daughter, parent or next of kin is a
covered service member may take up to 26 weeks in a single 12-month period to
take care of leave to care for that service member. (NEXT OF KIN is defined as
the closest blood relative of the injured or recovering service member.)
            4.   The term COVERED SERVICE MEMBER means:
               a.   A member of the Armed Forces (including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves) who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation
or therapy, is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the temporary
disability retired list, for a serious injury or illness; or
               b.   A veteran who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation
or therapy, for a serious injury or illness and who was a member of the armed
forces (including a member of the National Guard or Reserves) at any time
during the period of five years preceding the date on which the veteran
undergoes that medical treatment, recuperation or therapy.
            5.   The term SERIOUS INJURY OR ILLNESS means:
               a.   In the case of a member of the armed forces (including a
member of the National Guard or Reserves), means an injury or illness that was
incurred by the member in line of duty on active duty in the armed forces (or
existed before the beginning of the member’s active duty and was aggravated by
service in line of duty on active duty in the armed forces) and that may render
the member medically unfit to perform the duties of the member’s office, grade,
rank or rating; and
               b.   In the case of a veteran who was a member of the armed
forces (including a member of the National Guard or Reserves) at any time
during a period when the person was a covered service member, means a
qualifying (as defined by the Secretary of Labor) injury or illness incurred by
a covered service member in the line of duty on active duty that may render the
service member medically unfit to perform the duties of his or her office,
grade, rank or rating.
               c.   Outpatient status, with respect to a covered service
member, means the status of a member of the armed forces assigned to either a
military medical treatment facility as an outpatient; or a unit established for
the purpose of providing command and control of members of the armed forces
receiving medical care as outpatients.
      (5)   Amount of leave.
         (a)   An eligible employee can take up to 12 weeks for the FMLA
circumstances in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(5) above under this policy during
any 12-month period. The town will measure the 12-month period as a rolling 12-
month period measured forward from the date an employee uses any leave under
this policy. Each time an employee takes leave, the town will compute the
amount of leave the employee has taken under this policy in the preceding
months starting with the initial date of leave and subtract it from the 12
weeks of available leave. The balance remaining is the amount the employee is
entitled to take at that time.
         (b)   An eligible employee can take up to 26 weeks for the FMLA
circumstance in division (4) above (military caregiver leave) during a single
12-month period. For this military caregiver leave, the town will measure the
12-month period as a rolling 12-month period measured forward. FMLA leave
already taken for other FMLA circumstances will be deducted from the total of
26 weeks available.
         (c)   If a husband and wife both work for the town and each wishes to
take leave for the birth of a child, adoption or placement of a child in foster
care, or to care for a parent (but not a parent “in-law”) with a serious health
condition, the husband and wife may only take a combined total of 12 weeks of
leave. If a husband and wife both work for the town and each wishes to take
leave to care for a covered injured or ill service member, the husband and wife
may only take a combined total of 26 weeks of leave.
      (6)   Employee status and benefits during leave.
         (a)   While an employee is on leave, the town will continue the
employee’s health benefits during the leave period at the same level and under
the same conditions as if the employee had continued to work.
         (b)   Under current town policy, the employee pays a portion of the
health care premium. While on paid leave, the town will continue to make
payroll deductions to collect the employee’s share of the premium.
         (c)   While on unpaid leave, the employee must continue to make this
payment, either in person or by mail. The payment must be received in the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office by the end of the month.
         (d)   If the employee is unable to pay his or her portion of benefit
costs, the employee will be required to reimburse the town for all payments
made on the employee’s behalf either through payroll deduction or direct
payment.
         (e)   If the employee fails to return to work, the town will recover
from the employee its share of all premiums paid on the employee’s behalf
during the leave. Arrangements for repayment can be made with the approval of
the Town Council.
         (f)   If the employee contributes to any other benefit plans, the town
will continue making payroll deductions while the employee is on paid leave.
While the employee is on unpaid leave, the employee may request continuation of
such benefits and pay his or her portion of the premiums, or the town may elect
to maintain such benefits during the leave and pay the employee’s share of the
premium payments. If the employee does not continue these payments, the town
may discontinue coverage during the leave. If the town maintains coverage, the
town may recover the costs incurred for paying the employee’s share of any
premiums, whether or not the employee returns to work.
      (7)   Employee status after leave. An employee who takes leave under this
policy may be asked to provide a fitness for duty (FFD) clearance from the
health care provider. This requirement will be included in the town’s response
to the FMLA request. Generally, an employee who takes FMLA leave will be able
to return to the same position or a position with equivalent status, pay,
benefits and other employment terms. The position will be the same or one which
is virtually identical in terms of pay, benefits and working conditions.
      (8)   Use of paid and unpaid leave.
         (a)   An employee who is taking FMLA leave for any of the reasons
listed hereunder must use all unused annual leave days prior to being eligible
for unpaid leave.
         (b)   Disability leave as a result of a work related injury, to the
extent that it qualifies, will run concurrently with FMLA.
      (9)   Intermittent leave or a reduced work schedule.
         (a)   The employee may take FMLA leave in 12 consecutive weeks, may
use the leave intermittently (take a day periodically when needed over the
year) or, under certain circumstances, may use the leave to reduce the workweek
or workday, resulting in a reduced hours schedule. In all cases, the leave may
not exceed a total of 12 workweeks (or 26 workweeks to care for an injured or
ill service member over a 12-month period).
         (b)   The town may temporarily transfer an employee to an available
alternative position with equivalent pay and benefits if the alternative
position would better accommodate the intermittent or reduced schedule, in
instances of when leave for the employee or employee’s family member is
foreseeable and for planned medical treatment, including recovery from a
serious health condition or to care for a child after birth, or placement for
adoption or foster care.
         (c)   For the birth, adoption or foster care of a child, the town and
the employee must mutually agree to the schedule before the employee may take
the leave intermittently or work a reduced hours schedule. Leave for birth,
adoption or foster care of a child must be taken within one year of the birth
or placement of the child.
         (d)   If the employee is taking leave for a serious health condition
or because of the serious health condition of a family member, the employee
should try to reach agreement with the town before taking intermittent leave or
working a reduced hours schedule. If this is not possible, then the employee
must prove that the use of the leave is medically necessary.
      (10)   Certification for the employee’s serious health condition.
         (a)   The town will require certification for the employee’s serious
health condition. The employee must respond to such a request within 15 days of
the request or provide a reasonable explanation for the delay. Failure to
provide certification may result in a denial of continuation of leave. Medical
certification will be provided using the DOL Certification of Health Care
Provider for Employee’s Serious Health Condition.
         (b)   The town may directly contact the employee’s health care
provider for verification or clarification purposes using the designated leave
administrator. The town will not use the employee’s direct supervisor for this
contact. Before the town makes this direct contact with the health care
provider, the employee will be a given an opportunity to resolve any
deficiencies in the medical certification. In compliance with HIPAA medical
privacy rules, the town will obtain the employee’s permission for clarification
of individually identifiable health information.
         (c)   The town has the right to ask for a second opinion if it has
reason to doubt the certification. The town will pay for the employee to get a
certification from a second doctor, which the town will select. The town may
deny FMLA leave to an employee who refuses to release relevant medical records
to the health care provider designated to provide a second or third opinion. If
necessary to resolve a conflict between the original certification and the
second opinion, the town will require the opinion of a third doctor. The town
and the employee will mutually select the third doctor, and the town will pay
for the opinion. This third opinion will be considered final. The employee will
be provisionally entitled to leave and benefits under the FMLA pending the
second and/or third opinion.
      (11)   Certification for the family member’s serious health condition.
         (a)   The town will require certification for the family member’s
serious health condition. The employee must respond to such a request within 15
days of the request or provide a reasonable explanation for the delay. Failure
to provide certification may result in a denial of continuation of leave.
Medical certification will be provided using the DOL Certification of Health
Care Provider for Family Member’s Serious Health Condition.
         (b)   The town may directly contact the employee’s family member’s
health care provider for verification or clarification purposes using the
designated leave administrator. The town will not use the employee’s direct
supervisor for this contact. Before the town makes this direct contact with the
health care provider, the employee will be a given an opportunity to resolve
any deficiencies in the medical certification. In compliance with HIPAA medical
privacy rules, the town will obtain the employee’s family member’s permission
for clarification of individually identifiable health information.
         (c)   The town has the right to ask for a second opinion if it has
reason to doubt the certification. The town will pay for the employee’s family
member to get a certification from a second doctor, which the town will select.
The town may deny FMLA leave to an employee whose family member refuses to
release relevant medical records to the health care provider designated to
provide a second or third opinion. If necessary to resolve a conflict between
the original certification and the second opinion, the town will require the
opinion of a third doctor. The town and the employee will mutually select the
third doctor, and the town will pay for the opinion. This third opinion will be
considered final. The employee will be provisionally entitled to leave and
benefits under the FMLA pending the second and/or third opinion.
      (12)   Certification of qualifying exigency for military family leave.
         (a)   The town will require certification of the qualifying exigency
for military family leave. The employee must respond to such a request within
15 days of the request or provide a reasonable explanation for the delay.
Failure to provide certification may result in a denial of continuation of
leave. This certification will be provided using the DOL Certification of
Qualifying Exigency for Military Family Leave.
         (b)   The town will require certification for the serious injury or
illness of the covered service member. The employee must respond to such a
request within 15 days of the request or provide a reasonable explanation for
the delay. Failure to provide certification may result in a denial of
continuation of leave. This certification will be provided using the DOL
Certification for Serious Injury or Illness of Covered Service member.
      (13)   Recertification. The town may request recertification for the
serious health condition of the employee or the employee’s family member no
more frequently than every 30 days and only when circumstances have changed
significantly, or if the town receives information casting doubt on the reason
given for the absence, or if the employee seeks an extension of his or her
leave. Otherwise, the town may request recertification for the serious health
condition of the employee or the employee’s family member every six months in
connection with an FMLA absence. The town may provide the employee’s health
care provider with the employee’s attendance records and ask whether need for
leave is consistent with the employee’s serious health condition.
      (14)   Procedure for requesting FMLA leave.
         (a)   All employees requesting FMLA leave must provide verbal or
written notice of the need for the leave to the Clerk-Treasurer. Within five
business days after the employee has provided this notice, the Clerk-Treasurer
will complete and provide the employee with the DOL Notice of Eligibility and
Rights.
         (b)   When the need for the leave is foreseeable, the employee must
provide the town with at least 30 days’ notice. When an employee becomes aware
of a need for FMLA leave less than 30 days in advance, the employee must
provide notice of the need for the leave either the same day or the next
business day. When the need for FMLA leave is not foreseeable, the employee
must comply with the town usual and customary notice and procedural
requirements for requesting leave, absent unusual circumstances.
      (15)   Designation of FMLA leave. Within five business days after the
employee has submitted the appropriate certification form, the Clerk-Treasurer
will complete and provide the employee with a written response to the
employee’s request for FMLA leave using the DOL Designation Notice.
      (16)   Intent to return to work from FMLA leave.
         (a)   On a basis that does not discriminate against employees on FMLA
leave, the town may require an employee on FMLA leave to report periodically on
the employee’s status and intent to return to work.
         (b)   Employees who do not return to work following the use of all
paid and unpaid leave as described above may, subject to approval by the Town
Council be terminated as an active employee.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.123 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Regular full-time and regular part-time employees are entitled to a
leave of absence from their respective positions without loss of pay for the
time they are performing service in the uniform services for a period not to
exceed 15 calendar days within one calendar year. Uniformed services means the
armed forces of the United States, a ready reserve component of the armed
forces, State National Guard units, the commissioned core of the public health
service and any other service designated by the President of the United States
in time of war or emergency.
   (B)   An employee on leave under this provision shall suffer no loss of
seniority or benefits during the 15-day leave period.
   (C)   An employee on military leave for a period in excess of 15 calendar
days in one calendar year shall receive all benefits provided under the Uniform
Services and Reemployment Act of 1994 (38 U.S.C. Ch. 43).
   (D)   Employees absent from their respective positions because of service in
the uniformed services are, if honorably discharged, entitled to reinstatement,
provided that the period of absence does not exceed five years. If an absence
exceeds five years, reinstatement shall be available only under the exceptions
set forth in 38 U.S.C. § 4312(c). An employee is entitled to reinstatement only
if the employee had, prior to the time of commencing uniformed service, given
notice to the town of the anticipated service, and has at the conclusion of the
military service reported for work, or made application for reinstatement as
follows.
      (1)   If uniformed service is for 30 days or less the employee must
report for work by the next regularly scheduled workday after allowing eight
hours for travel.
      (2)   If uniformed service is for more than 30 days, but less than 181
days, the employee must submit an application for reinstatement not later than
14 days after completion of uniformed service.
      (3)   If uniformed service is for more than 180 days, the employee must
submit an application for reinstatement within the 90-day period following
completion of uniformed service.
   (E)   (1)   Exceptions to these reinstatement time periods will be made
when, because of a disability or hospitalization caused by uniformed service,
or because of events beyond the control of the employee, the employee was
unable to report or make application within the prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Reinstatement shall be to the position last held by the employee,
unless such position no longer exists, or the requirements of such position has
so substantially changed that reasonable training will not qualify the employee
for such position. In such circumstances, reinstatement shall be to a position
similar in pay and duties.
      (3)   Reinstatement shall not be available if, during the period of
military service, the employee would have been laid off from such position had
the employee remained in public employment, and recall has not yet occurred.
   (F)   (1)   An employee reinstated pursuant to these provisions shall be
entitled to placement on the salary schedule at the level the employee would
have attained had the employee not been absent for uniformed service.
      (2)   Reinstated employees shall be entitled to benefit levels that
escalate with length of service as if there had been no absence for uniformed
service.
   (G)   Subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of the applicable
plans for which the employee is otherwise eligible, the town will provide
health insurance benefits for the full term of the military leave of absence,
provided the employee, at each pay period, tenders his or her co-pay portion of
premiums to the Clerk-Treasurer, if the employee fails to make the payments in
a timely manner, benefit coverage will terminate.
   (H)   Benefit accruals, such as vacation, sick leave or holiday benefits,
will be suspended during the leave and will resume upon the employee’s return
to active employment.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
SEPARATION OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 34.135 RESIGNATION.
   (A)   In the event that an employee intends to resign, he or she should
notify the Town Council or department head, as appropriate, in writing at least
two weeks in advance of the effective date in order to assure continuity of
operations.
   (B)   (1)   An employee who resigns while in good standing with the town may
be “reinstated” to the same or similar position at the discretion of the Town
Council and department head within one year following the effective date of the
resignation, thereby preserving certain seniority rights.
      (2)   After the expiration of one year, a former employee is eligible for
rehire.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.136 LAYOFF AND RECALL.
   (A)   The town may reduce staffing levels due to lack of work, lack of funds
or job abolishment for purposes of economy and/or efficiency. In the event of
layoff, the Town Council, in consultation with the various department heads,
shall determine in which classification(s) such reduction will occur.
   (B)   (1)   Employees shall be selected for retention or layoff because of
performance, ability, qualification and seniority.
      (2)   Employees who are affected by layoff shall be provided 14 calendar
days’ written notice.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to lay the employee off immediately and
pay him or her for the remaining 14 calendar days.
   (C)   The town shall first attempt to layoff temporary, part-time, seasonal
casual and introductory employees in classifications affected by the layoff if
qualified full-time employees are available that can perform the functions of
the position.
   (D)   A recall list shall be established for each classification affected by
the layoff, listing each lay off employee in the order of layoff.
   (E)   A laid off employee shall be eligible for recall for a period of one
year following the date of the layoff.
   (F)   The employee shall be responsible for keeping a current address on
file with the town. Failure to do so may result in the inability to notify the
laid off employee of his or her eligibility for reinstatement.
   (G)   Each recalled employee shall be allowed ten calendar days from the
date of receipt of notice to return to work, except in the event of extenuating
circumstances, submitted in writing and approved by the department head.
   (H)   Any employee accepting or declining reinstatement to the same
classification from which the layoff or displacement initially occurred shall
be removed from eligibility for further recall.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.137 RETURN OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Employees are responsible for all property, materials or written
information issued to them or in their possession or control.
   (B)   Employees, on or before their last days of work, must return all town
property in good working condition.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 34.138 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT.
 
I acknowledge that I have received, read and understand the policies outlined in the Town of Advance Employee Handbook. I agree to conform to the rules and regulations of the
town as described in the handbook which is intended as a guide to human resource policies and procedures. I understand that the town has the right to change the handbook
without notice. It is understood that future changes in policies and procedures will supersede or eliminate those found in this chapter, and that employees will be notified of
such changes through normal communication channels.
 
I also understand and agree that the information contained in these materials does not constitute an employment contract between the town and me, and that either I or the town
may terminate our employment relationship at any time, with or without cause. I understand that no elected official or department head of the town, other than the Town Council,
has any authority to enter into any agreement for employment for any specified period of time, or to make any agreement contrary to the foregoing.
 
 
Employee signature:                                                                                         
 
Date:                                                                     
 
Employee name (please print):                                                                           
 
Town representative:                                                                                         
 
 
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-28-2016)
SOCIAL MEDIA
§ 34.150 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to establish town general standards and
responsibilities for the acceptable use of social media. The policy governs the
use, administration, management, monitoring and retention of social media and
social media content, consistent with state, federal and town regulations. This
policy applies to all uses of social media by the town employees maintaining,
using or providing oversight of social media tools. Employees include, but are
not limited to, full-time and part-time employees, contractors, interns and
volunteers who access or contribute content.
   (B)   All content created, received, transmitted, stored on or deleted from
town information systems is exclusively the property of the town or, to the
extent provided by applicable law, of the person or entity that created or owns
the copyright or trademark rights to that content.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 34.151 BENEFITS OF SOCIAL MEDIA TOOLS.
   When used in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and policies as
well as prudent operational, security and privacy considerations, web-based
social media tools can (at little to no cost):
   (A)   Enhance the speed, reach and targeting of communications (particularly
during disaster/ emergency incidents);
   (B)   Facilitate collaboration;
   (C)   Improve information exchange between residents and employees;
   (D)   Increase citizen engagement and dialogue;
   (E)   Streamline processes;
   (F)   Foster productivity improvements; and
   (G)   Increase the town’s ability to broadcast messages to the widest
possible audience.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 34.152 STANDARDS FOR USE.
   All uses of social media on behalf of the town or any town department, or in
any manner that appears to represent the town or constitute communication by
the town, must comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Departments and department heads.
      (1)   No department may establish, use or terminate a social media
identity, account, profile, page or site without the approval of a Town Council
designee. Designees of the Council include the Town Council President and
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Department heads shall be the authorized social media user for the
department. Only the department head shall be authorized to post social media
content on the department’s social media account or accounts and may have
access to the department’s social media accounts that permit such posting.
      (3)   No information or hyperlink to any Internet site or other materials
or communications may be posted on a departmental social media account that is
not directly related to the mission, services and business objectives of the
department.
      (4)   Department social media sites must prominently display, on the
first page accessible to site visitors, links to the town’s official Internet
site: www.townofadvance.com.
   (B)   Employees and contractors.
      (1)   No town employee or contractor employed by the town may establish
any social media account in the name of or on behalf of the town or any
department unless a Town Council designee and the user’s department head have
all approved the account.
      (2)   Social media accounts established by the town or a town department
are to be used for town and department business purposes only. Use for
communications and postings that are not directly related to a town or
department business purpose is prohibited.
      (3)   Employees must report unauthorized uses of town social media or
town social media accounts to the head of their department and a Town Council
designee.
   (C)   Unacceptable uses.
      (1)   The town considers the activities and uses of social media listed
below to be unacceptable. Department heads and employees are prohibited from
engaging in any of them on a social media account established by the town or a
town department:
         (a)   Using social media in a manner that does not comply with
federal, state and local laws and regulations, and with town and department
policies;
         (b)   Using social media in a manner that violates the copyright,
trade or other intellectual property rights of any person or entity, or
otherwise violates their legal ownership interests; includes ethnic slurs,
profanity, personal insults, material that is harassing, defamatory, fraudulent
or discriminatory or other content or communications that would not be
acceptable in a town workplace under town or department policy or practice;
         (c)   Violates the terms of contracts governing the use of any social
media content, including, but not limited to, software and other intellectual
property licenses; displays sexually explicit images, cartoons, jokes, messages
or other material in violation of the town’s sexual harassment policy;
         (d)   Displays any “political activities” defined as any activity in
support of, within or in opposition to, a political party or any activity in
support of, or in opposition to, a candidate before or during an election
period;
         (e)   Contains confidential or “for official use only” information or
information that compromises the security of town networks or information
systems. Such “for official use only” or confidential information includes, but
is not limited to, information that is protected under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), being Pub. Law No. 104-191,
or other federal, state or local laws and regulations (except as permitted
under such laws and regulations) as well as Social Security numbers and other
personally identifiable information; and
         (f)   Violates the terms of use governing the social medial account.
      (2)   This list is not exhaustive. Questions about particular uses of
social media or particular social media content should be directed to the Town
Council or its designee.
   (D)   Personal social media accounts.
      (1)   Postings and user profiles on personal social media accounts must
not state or imply that the views, conclusions, statements or other social
media content are an official policy, statement, position or communication of
the town, or represent the views of the town or any town officer or employee,
unless the head of the user’s department or a Town Council designee have
granted express permission for that user to do so.
      (2)   If a town employee or contractor employed by the town has not
received such express permission, any user profile, biography or posting on a
personal social media account that identifies that person as a town employee or
contractor employed by the town must include a qualifying statement in
substantially the following form: “The opinions and views I express on this
site are my own and do not reflect any official view or position of the Town of
Advance.”
   (E)   Information requirements. Department heads must submit a list of all
social media accounts maintained by the department to a Council designee
including, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name, hosting site and Internet address and date of inception
for the account and a statement of the purpose and scope of the department’s
use of the account;
      (2)   All user names, passwords and other log-in credentials for the
account;
      (3)   All authorized social media users for the department that have
access to and/or responsibility for the account;
      (4)   The administrative contacts and contact information for the
account. The department head must promptly notify a Council designee of any
changes in any of the foregoing, and of any new department social media
accounts or pages and any termination of accounts or pages; and
      (5)   Department heads shall ensure that all department-approved social
media accounts and social media content are periodically reviewed for
compliance with this policy.
   (F)   Records retention. Social media content is subject to the records
retention and destruction schedule established by the state’s Commission of
Public Records, whether or not the social media is currently posted on the
department’s site(s). Departments are responsible for making and retaining such
postings, as required by the state’s records retention and destruction
schedule.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 34.153 COMPLIANCE.
   Each department head shall be responsible for enforcing compliance with this
policy by department employees. Employees who violate this policy, or any other
town or department policy, may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment, in accordance with the disciplinary
policies of the employee’s department and of the town. If a town contractor or
third party user knowingly or negligently commits or permits a material
violation of this policy, the town may terminate the contract in accordance
with its terms, and/or terminate the contractor’s or third party user’s access
to town information processing facilities, information systems and information,
in addition to any legal or remedial actions the town may take to enforce and
protect its interests.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 34.154 MORE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Questions about this policy and other information security matters
should be addressed to the Town Council.
   (B)   All of which is considered, approved and adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 35: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
35.01   Fee schedule
§ 35.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
Section Description Fees
Section                 Description                 Fees
10.99(A)(1)             First violation             $2,500
10.99(A)(2)             Second and subsequent       $7,500
                        violations
30.48                   Materiality threshold       $750
31.52(A)                Vehicle inspection          $5
31.52(B)                Fee for each accident       $5
                        report
31.52(B)                Fee for photographs         $2
                        Payment to respond to an
32.01(A)(12)            urgent circumstance prior   Up to $5,000
                        to the approval of the Town
                        Council
                        Limit for the estimated
32.20                   cost of the purchase of     $50,000
                        supplies
32.21(C)                Limit for the estimated     Less than $500
                        amount of purchase
34.092(D)(2)            Limit considered reasonable $25
                        for gifts
50.20(A)                Property owner electric     $75
                        deposit
50.20(A)                Property owner water        $25
                        deposit
50.20(A)                Renter electric deposit     $75
50.20(A)                Renter water deposit        $175
50.41(A)                Capital investment          At least $1,000,000
51.01                   Resident monthly usage;     $0.20000 per kwh
                        first 300 kwh
51.01                   Residential monthly usage;  $0.10150 per kwh
                        next 700 kwh
51.01                   Residential monthly usage;  $0.09000 per kwh
                        over 1,000 kwh
51.01                   Commercial monthly usage;   $0.20000 per kwh
                        first 300 kwh
51.01                   Commercial monthly usage;   $0.12800 per kwh
                        next 700 kwh
51.01                   Commercial monthly usage;   $0.11500 per kwh
                        next 1,500 kwh
51.01                   Commercial monthly usage;   $0.09000 per kwh
                        over 2,500 kwh
51.02                   Security lighting rate      $9.20 per lamp per month
                        Street lighting (standard
51.02                   wood pole and overhead      $3,865 per year
                        wiring) rate
51.04(A)(1)             Residential monthly         $7.50
                        customer charge
51.04(A)(2)             Commercial monthly customer $10
                        charge
51.06                   Fee per month per security  $7
                        light
                        Monthly minimum charge; 5/
52.15                   8-inch and 3/4-inch water   $43.55
                        meter
52.15                   Monthly minimum charge; 1-  $78.10
                        inch water meter
52.15                   Monthly minimum charge; 1   $150.72
                        1/2-inch water meter
52.15                   Monthly minimum charge; 2-  $185.32
                        inch water meter
52.15                   Monthly usage; first 2,000  $21.77
                        gallons per 1,000
52.15                   Monthly usage; next 1,000   $18.37
                        gallons
52.15                   Monthly usage; next 7,000   $14.62
                        gallons per 1,000
52.15                   Monthly usage; next 10,000  $13.21
                        gallons per 1,000
52.15                   Monthly usage; next 30,000  $10.35
                        gallons per 1,000
52.15                   Monthly usage; over 50,000  $5.39
                        gallons per 1,000
52.15                   Public hydrants             $208.31
52.15                   Private hydrants            $208.31
52.15                   Renter deposit              $150
52.15                   Customer deposit            $75
52.15                   Returned check              $25
52.15                   Tap fee for 5/8- inch and   $2,000
                        3/4-inch meters
52.15                   Turn on and turn off fee    $52
                        during office hours
52.15                   Turn on and turn off fee    $200
                        after office hours
52.16                   Base charge; 5/8-inch or 3/ $41.05
                        4-inch meter
52.16                   Base charge; 1-inch meter   $100.40
52.16                   Base charge; 2-inch meter   $392.65
52.16                   Base charge; 3-inch meter   $899.90
52.16                   Flow charge; per 1,000      $4.20
                        gallons
52.16                   Minimum charge per month    $49.45
52.16                   Unmetered users             $64.50
52.99(B)                First offense               $100
52.99(B)                Second violation            $250
52.99(B)                Third or more violation     $2,500
53.03                   Monthly base charge for 5/  $55.15
                        8- and 3/4-inch water meter
53.03                   Monthly base charge for 1-  $134.88
                        inch water meter
53.03                   Monthly base charge for 2-  $527.51
                        inch water meter
53.03                   Monthly base charge for 3-  $1,208.98
                        inch water meter
53.03                   Monthly base charge for 4-  -
                        inch water meter
53.03                   Treatment charge for all    $5.64
                        meter sizes
53.03                   Minimum charge per customer $66.43
                        per month
53.03                   Non-meter residential       $84.54
                        customers
53.03                   Renter deposit              $150
53.03                   Returned check              $25
53.03                   Tap fee for sewers; 5/8-    $3,000
                        and 3/4-inch meters
                                                    The number of such dwelling
53.04(F)                Minimum bill                units times $30.62 per
                                                    month
                        Additional charge per pound
                        of suspended solids for
53.05(B)(1)             suspended solids received   $0.50
                        in excess of 100 milligrams
                        per liter of fluid
                        Additional charge per pound
                        of biochemical oxygen
53.05(B)(2)             demand for BOD received in  $0.33
                        excess of 150 milligrams
                        per liter of fluid
                        Additional charge per pound
53.05(B)(3)             for ammonia in excess of 30 $0.55
                        milligrams per liter of
                        fluid
70.99(B)                Violation of this chapter   Not less than $15, nor more
                                                    than $25
71.03                   Golf cart registration fee  $30
71.99(B)(1)             First offense               Registration fee, plus $25
71.99(B)(2)             Second offense              $50
71.99(B)(3)             Third offense               $75
Ch. 72 Schd. I(C)       Violation of a turn         Not less than $15, nor more
                        restriction                 than $25
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Minimum fine for less than  $10
                        10 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Maximum fine for less than  $25
                        10 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Minimum fine for 10 mph -   $25
                        25 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Maximum fine for 10 mph -   $50
                        25 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Minimum fine for 25 mph -   $50
                        40 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Maximum fine for 25 mph -   $100
                        40 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Minimum fine for more than  $100
                        40 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. II (C)(1)  Maximum fine for more than  $250
                        40 mph over posted limit
Ch. 72 Schd. III (C)(2) Violation of stop street    Not less than $25, nor more
                        regulations                 than $100
Ch. 73 Schd. I (A)(2)   Violation of parking        $10
                        restrictions
90.99(B)(1)             First offense               $50
90.99(B)(1)             Each subsequent offense     $100
                        Violation relating to
90.99(B)(2)             cruelty, abuse, mutilation, Up to $1,000
                        sacrifice or willful
                        neglect
90.99(B)(3)             Any other violation         Up to $100
90.99(C)(2)             First citation              Not less than $50
90.99(C)(2)             Second citation             $100
90.99(C)(2)             Third or more citation      $200
90.99(D)                First offense               $25
90.99(D)                Second offense              $50
90.99(D)                Third offense               $75
90.99(D)                Fourth offense              $100
90.99(D)                Each successive offense     $25
91.99                   Public nuisance; failing to Not less than $25, nor more
                        abate or cease when ordered than $50
110.99                  Violation of junk yard      Not less than $25, nor more
                        provisions                  than $50
111.04                  Canvasser certificate fee   $3/day
                        for 1 - 2 days
                        Charitable solicitor
111.04                  (individual) fee for 1 - 2  $1/day
                        days
111.04                  Commercial solicitor fee    $5/day
                        for 1 - 2 days
111.04                  Commercial solicitor fee    $12.50
                        for 1 week
111.04                  Commercial solicitor fee    $25
                        for 1 year
                        Fine for engaging in
                        soliciting or canvassing    Not less than $25, nor more
111.99                  without a license or a      than $50
                        violation of §
                        111.09
                        Unauthorized use of a
                        firearm or dangerous
                        projectile; operating
131.99                  firearm range without a     Not less than $50, nor more
                        permit; violation of        than $100
                        conditions of permit;
                        disobeying cease and desist
                        order
150.01(B)               Permit fee                  $15
150.99(B)               Violation of construction   Not less than $50, nor more
                        standards                   than $100
                        Cost of work (exclusive of
151.02(A)(1)(b)         the purchase price of       $500
                        manufactured equipment to
                        be installed)
151.25                  Maximum bond                No greater than $25,000
151.99(B)(1)(b)         Building regulation penal   $100
                        violation
                        Violation of mobile home
154.99                  regulations; violating plan Not less than $10, nor more
                        for altering or building    than $300
                        any building or mobile home
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   ELECTRICITY
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
      
54.   SEWER USE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
Administration
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Utility Board; creation; membership; powers; legal counsel
   
50.03   Removal of utilities from PSA rate approval jurisdiction
   
50.04   Fixing utility rates and charges; procedures and requirements
   
50.05   Administration of utility moneys; Cash Reserve Fund; transfers to
General Fund
   
50.06   Loans from Cash Reserve Fund to utilities or town; loan requirements
   
50.07   Investment of moneys authorized
   
50.08   Emergency curtailment of electric service adopted
Deposits and Billings
   
50.20   Utility security/billing deposit established
   
50.21   Disposition of utility deposits
   
50.22   Refund or application of utility deposits
   
50.23   Utility payment dates; delinquency charges
   
50.24   Delinquent utility bills of town employees; authority to withhold
paychecks
   
50.25   Utility bill payment procedures; utility clearing accounts
   
50.26   Non-payment of utility bills; warnings and notices; disconnection of
service; requirements and procedures
   
50.27   Appeals of overdue utility bill; payment extensions
   
50.28   Accounts issued in the name of the property owner
Economic Development Rider
   
50.40   Availability
   
50.41   Qualifications
   
50.42   Rate incentive
   
50.43   Terms and conditions
   
50.44   Applicable rate schedules
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Advance Utility Board created under §
50.02 of this chapter.
   REASONABLE AND JUST RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES. Rates and charges that
produce sufficient revenue to:
      (1)   Pay all legal and other necessary expenses incident to the
operation of the utility, including:
         (a)   Maintenance;
         (b)   Operating coast;
         (c)   Upkeep;
         (d)   Repairs;
         (e)   Depreciation; and
         (f)   Interest charges on bonds or other obligations.
      (2)   Provide a sinking fund for the liquidation of bonds or other
evidences of indebtedness;
      (3)   Provide adequate money for working capital;
      (4)   Provide adequate money for making extensions and replacements to
the extent not provided for through depreciation in division (1) above; and
      (5)   Provide money for the payment of any taxes that may be assessed
against the utility.
   SURPLUS EARNINGS. Those cash earnings remaining after provision has been
made to take care if current obligations, including:
      (1)   Operating;
      (2)   Depreciation or replacement fund;
      (3)   Bond and interest sinking funds;
      (4)   Retirement funds; or
      (5)   Any other priority funds requirements fixed by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 83-2, passed - -1983)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BOARD; CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; POWERS; LEGAL COUNSEL.
   A board, which is to be known as the “Advance Utility Board”, consisting of
the members of the municipal legislative body (Town Council), is hereby
created, which Board shall operate and manage the town’s Electric Utility and
the town’s Water Works Utility. The Board shall have all the power, authorities
and duties conferred upon such board by Pub. Law No. 74, § 1 of Indiana Acts or
the Acts of the General Assembly of 1982 and amendments thereto, including the
power to employ legal counsel to represent and advise the Board, at such
compensation as shall be determined by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 83-2, passed - -1983)
§ 50.03 REMOVAL OF UTILITIES FROM PSA RATE APPROVAL JURISDICTION.
   The municipally-owned utilities of the town, being the municipal electric
utility and the municipal water utility, are hereby taken out of the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state for rate-making
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -1982)
§ 50.04 FIXING UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES; PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board may recommend to the municipal legislative body rates and
changes sufficient to include a reasonable return on the utility plant of the
municipality. It is the intent of this section that the rates and charges
produce and income sufficient to maintain the utility property in sound
physical and financial condition to render adequate the efficient service. The
rates and charges made for a service non- discriminatory, reasonable and just.
   (B)   Whenever the electric utility provides service outside the corporate
boundaries or the town, the charges for service outside the town may not differ
from charges for service inside the town unless the utility clearly
demonstrates significant cost factors that make different charges non-
discriminatory, reasonable and just.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 83-2, passed - -1983)
§ 50.05 ADMINISTRATION OF UTILITY MONEYS; CASH RESERVE FUND; TRANSFERS TO
GENERAL FUND.
   The money belonging to each municipally-owned utility shall be kept by the
Municipal Fiscal Officer as separate funds as required by any bound ordinance
or accounting procedures established by the state’s Board of Accounts. A Cash
Reserve Fund is hereby created, and the board shall hereafter carry the same on
the records of the utility by providing for monthly contributions or transfers
to the Cash Reserve Fund of surplus earnings of the utility. The municipal
legislative body, with the approval of the Board, may transfer surplus earnings
of the utility to the General Fund. The money may not, however, be transferred
unless the terms and conditions of any bond ordinance, resolution, indenture or
similar instrument binding upon utility are complied with. The Town Council may
include in the municipal General Fund budget, as revenue in lieu of taxes, an
amount equal to the actual balance in the Cash Reserve Fund as of June 30 of
the current year. However, the available Cash Reserve Fund balance may be
transferred to the municipal General Fund only during the calendar year for
which the budget was adopted, and transfers may not be made from any utility
funds to the General Fund, except from the Cash Reserve Fund. If, at any time
after the final approval of the budget, an emergency should arise for further
appropriations from the General Fund, the legislative body may, by ordinance,
transfer additional money from the Cash Reserve Fund to the General Fund to
provide for the additional appropriations, the transfer to be limited to the
accretions to the Cash Reserve Fund since the preceding June 30.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 83-2, passed - -1983)
§ 50.06 LOANS FROM CASH RESERVE FUND TO UTILITIES OR TOWN; LOAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Cash Reserve Fund may be used to make loans to another utility
owned by the town for periods not to exceed five years, at any interest rate.
The repayment of the loan and interest shall be returned to the Cash Reserve
Fund.
   (B)   (1)   Also, the Board may, by resolution, lend money to the town the
utility has on hand:
         (a)   A surplus of cash exceeding by at least the amount loaned the
sum of all amounts required to pay the indebtedness of the utility failing due
during the current calendar year and the following year;
         (b)   The amount necessary to meet current expenses during the year;
and
         (c)   The amount necessary to pay for improvements contemplated to be
made during the calendar year minus the estimated receipts during the calendar
year.
      (2)   A loan may not be made for a sum in excess of 50% of the amount
estimated to be collected from anticipated taxes. The loan must be evidenced by
an obligation to the town, be signed by the members of the Town Council, be
made due on or before 30 days after the last day for the payment of anticipated
taxes and may bear interest at any rate as determined by the Board, payable at
maturity.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 83-2, passed - -1983)
§ 50.07 INVESTMENT OF MONEYS AUTHORIZED.
   In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-13, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized
to invest the surplus moneys on deposit in any of the funds of the municipally-
owned utilities, and to sell or liquidate such investments as moneys are
required or for the purpose of reinvestments. Investments shall be made, and
earnings or capital gains deposited, in the same manner as prescribed for
investment of other town moneys; except that, any interest earnings
attributable to invested moneys from the Utility Bond Sinking Fund shall accrue
to and be deposited in such sinking fund rather than in the town’s General
Fund. Notwithstanding any other provisions, the Clerk-Treasurer, for the
purpose of this section, may issue a check on any utility fund, including a
sinking fund, to make or purchase such investment and to pay any associated
transaction fees or other necessary charges deriving from the making, purchase,
sale or liquidation of the investment.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 85-1C, passed - -1985)
§ 50.08 EMERGENCY CURTAILMENT OF ELECTRIC SERVICE ADOPTED.
   The electric curtailment rules for the municipal electric utility to the
town shall be as set forth in the document known as the Emergency Energy
Control Program, as formulated by the Public Service Commission of the state,
the same being the curtailment plan of the supplier of electrical energy to the
municipal electric utility, and consisting of four steps which provide for the
curtailment of electric usage. Upon notification to the town’s municipal
electric utility that the supplier is implementing each of said steps, the
town’s electric utility will also immediately thereafter implement said steps.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8) (Ord. 78-3, passed - -1978)
DEPOSITS AND BILLINGS
§ 50.20 UTILITY SECURITY/BILLING DEPOSIT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   When municipal utility service is first provided to a building or
property or when liability for paying utility bills is transferred from on
person to another, the new utility customer shall deposit with the Clerk-
Treasurer, as guaranty against payment of future utility bills and/or damages
to utility property on the customer’s premises, the following amounts depending
on whether the new customer liable for billings in the owner or a renter of the
respective premises:
 
Customer Status Electric Deposit                Water Deposit
                In the amount as shall be set   In the amount as shall be set
Property owner  by the Town Council from time   by the Town Council from time
                to time                         to time
                In the amount as shall beset by In the amount as shall be set
Renter          the Town Council from time to   by the Town Council from time
                time                            to time
 
   (B)   The above deposits apply both to residential and commercial service.
Deposits as provided in this section are in addition to any tap charges or
other physical installation charges that may apply for properties not
previously connected or which have been physically disconnected from the
utility distribution system upon initiation or reinstitution of service. Any
deposits assessed by the appropriate officers of the municipally-owned
utilities and in accordance with this section are hereby fully ratified and
legalized pursuant to I.C. 36-1-4-16. Utility deposits shall be held in trust
by the town, and shall not be considered revenues of the respective utility
unless subsequently transferred to utility in liquidation of unpaid bills or
damages, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985; Ord. U-02-2010, passed 11-
15-2010)
§ 50.21 DISPOSITION OF UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish segregated accounts within the town’s
Special Deposit Fund to be known as the “Electric Utility Deposit Account” and
the “Water Utility Deposit Account”. When a utility deposit is received from a
customer, the Clerk-Treasurer shall credit such deposit to a subaccount under
the depositor’s name within the appropriate utility deposit account. The
depositor shall not be entitled to any interest on utility deposits while held
by the town. Moneys credited to the utility deposit accounts may be invested
and earnings and gains distributed in the same manner as for other moneys in
the Special Deposit Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985)
§ 50.22 REFUND OR APPLICATION OF UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A utility deposit shall be refunded to a utility customer, subject to
deductions as provided hereinafter, when the customer gives written notice to
the Clerk-Treasure that he or she will cease to be a utility customer or that
liability for utility bills will be transferred to another person, or when the
town discontinues service (other than temporary disruption of service) to the
customer for any reason. The affected customer must submit a claim for deposit
refund to the Clerk-Treasurer. The refund shall be made within 30 days of the
date when service is discontinued to the current customer; expect that, when
the current customer is a property owner, and liability for utility bills is to
be transferred to a renter, the refund shall not be made until such time as
such renter has made his or her own deposit as required under §
50.20 of this chapter.
   (B)   Deposit refunds shall be reduced by the following amounts.
      (1)   If it is found that any previously owed utility bill or any amount
owed by the current customer by virtue of the next succeeding monthly bill
after the current customer has given notice and claimed a deposit refund has
not been paid, along with any applicable delinquency charges, the amount of
such bills and delinquency charges shall be deducted from the refund and
transferred to the appropriate utility operation accounts.
      (2)   If it is found that the customer claiming the refund has, through
misuse or negligence, caused or permitted to be caused by any person whom he or
she has allowed to occupy or use his premises, any damage to meters or other
property owned by the municipal utility, and for which damage the customer has
not previously compensated the town, such amounts for repair or replacement
shall be deducted from the refund: and, for purposes of this division (B)(2),
the utility authorities shall have the right to inspect any utility property on
the customer’s premises before a refund is made. Amounts deducted under this
division (B)(2) shall be transferred and credited to the appropriate utility
maintenance and depreciation fund.
      (3)   In the event that a deposit refund is not claimed by the customer
within 30 days of the date on which service is discontinued to such customer,
then from and after such 30 days a carrying charge shall be assessed against
and deducted from the deposit equal to 8.333% per month of the original
principal amount of such deposit remaining after deductions have been made
under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, such deductions to continue until the
deposit is exhausted. Any amounts deducted under this division (B)(2) shall be
transferred and credited to the town’s General Fund.
   (C)   However, no amount deducted from a deposit under this section is
necessarily intended to, nor shall be necessarily construed to, fully liquidate
or discharge any greater amount owed to the extent not actually covered by the
applicable deposit deduction, nor to bar the town from taking out liens on
property or other legal actions to recover amounts owed to it and not recovered
through utility deposit deductions.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985)
§ 50.23 UTILITY PAYMENT DATES; DELINQUENCY CHARGES.
   (A)   Payment in full for utility bills is due between the tenth and
twentieth of each successive month. Any bills not paid by the twentieth of the
month will be subject to a 10% penalty fee.
   (B)   A penalty notice will be sent to delinquent customers along with a
copy of an extension from which must be delivered to the Town Hall before the
fifth day of the next following month.
   (C)   Thereafter, the request for an extension will be presented to the Town
Council at the next scheduled meeting.
   (D)   A secure drop off box will be provided in the door of the Town Hall
and payments and extension forms may be left in the secure drop box.
   (E)   Customers who have not paid their bills or filed extension forms
before the fifth day of the month will receive a disconnect notice and then
will face a disconnect of services on the next business day.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985; Ord. 08-U-01, passed 2-12-
2008)
§ 50.24 DELINQUENT UTILITY BILLS OF TOWN EMPLOYEES; AUTHORITY TO WITHHOLD
PAYCHECKS.
   If any civil town or municipal utility employee owes a delinquent utility
bill, which is not paid in full by payday, the Clerk-Treasurer shall withhold
such employee’s paycheck. However, if the employee affirms to the Clerk-
Treasurer that he or she will be financially unable to pay the utility bill
unless he or she receives is paycheck, the Clerk-Treasurer may issue a new
paycheck, deducting from the employee’s net pay the amount of the utility bill
owed to the town, which deducted amount shall be transferred from the Payroll
Fund to the appropriate utility accounts.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-5) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985)
§ 50.25 UTILITY BILL PAYMENT PROCEDURES; UTILITY CLEARING ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Municipal utility bills may be paid in any of the following manner at
the option of the customer:
      (1)   By making payment at the drop off box provided the Town Hall; and
      (2)   By mail.
   (B)   All utility bills shall be paid pursuant to the procedures set out in
§
50.23 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-6) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985; Ord. 08-U-01, passed 2-12-
2008)
§ 50.26 NON-PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS; WARNINGS AND NOTICES; DISCONNECTION OF
SERVICE; REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The first working day after utility bills are past due and penalty
charge notices are sent giving the customers through the fourth of the next
month to pay the bill. If the bill is not paid or an extension form filled out
before the fifth of the month, a 24-hour disconnect notice will be delivered by
hand by the Utility Superintendent and posted on the residence door.
   (B)   If payment is not received by 10:00 a.m. the next working day
following the 24-hour disconnect notice, the meter is then disconnected or,
subject to discretion of the Town Council, a limit meter may be installed.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-7) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985; Ord. 08-U-01, passed 2-12-
2008)
§ 50.27 APPEALS OF OVERDUE UTILITY BILL; PAYMENT EXTENSIONS.
   A utility customer who has an overdue utility bill may file a written
appeal, extension form, with the utility governing body for an extension of
payment, and then the utility governing body may grant such appeal either
conditionally or unconditionally, if it can be shown that there exists an
extraordinary hardship or similar unusual circumstances whereby the customer is
unable to pay the bill in a timely manner. The Town Council may grant a
requested extension or a lesser extension, or may permit partial installment
payments at stipulated times. Such extension or installment payments do not
absolve the customer from delinquency charges under §
50.23 of this chapter. When an extension or installment payments are permitted,
disconnection procedures under §
50.26 of this chapter shall be stayed until the extension has expired. If the
customer does not comply with the extension form agreement, the extension on
payments at that point is null and void, disconnection will occur the following
day after non- compliance.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-8) (Ord. 85-18C, passed - -1985; Ord. 08-U-01, passed 2-12-
2008)
§ 50.28 ACCOUNTS ISSUED IN THE NAME OF THE PROPERTY OWNER.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, all utility accounts
shall be issued in the name of the property owner. The property owner shall be
ultimately responsible for any unpaid utility bills incurred on behalf of
tenant and shall further be liable for the outstanding balance where the tenant
vacates the premises without notice. It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to ensure that, where tenants are required to pay utility bills,
said bills are paid when due.
(Ord. 10-U-07, passed 11-15-2010)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RIDER
§ 50.40 AVAILABILITY.
   This subchapter is available to a qualifying customer (as defined herein) to
encourage large power users to expand or create new operations within the
utility’s service territory.
(Ord. 2018.05, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 50.41 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A QUALIFYING CUSTOMER is a new or existing non-residential customer in
the utility’s service territory that is establishing new operations or
expanding existing operations such that the new or expanded operations will
result in new or additional demand of at least one MW (1,000 kW) at one
delivery point (the “qualifying demand”) and the new or expanded operations has
involved a capital investment in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time within the utility’s service territory.
   (B)   For a qualifying customer that is expanding operations, qualifying
demand is measured from the average monthly peak demand for the 12 months
immediately preceding the effective date of the service application. For a
qualifying customer that is establishing new operations, qualifying demand is
measured from zero.
   (C)   (1)   A qualifying customer is not a customer:
         (a)   With “new” demand that results from a change in ownership of an
existing establishment without qualifying new load;
         (b)   Renewing service following interruptions such as equipment
failure, temporary plant shutdown, strike, economic conditions or natural
disaster; or
         (c)   That has shifted its load from one operation or customer to
another within the utility’s service territory.
      (2)   The utility may determine exclusively, without recourse by the
customer, whether an event has occurred that would prevent a customer from
being a qualifying customer.
(Ord. 2018.05, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 50.42 RATE INCENTIVE.
   (A)   Beginning with the effective date indicated in the service application
submitted by the qualifying customer, the utility will receive a credit on its
wholesale bill for the qualifying new load. The incentive amount received by
the utility from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency for such load will be
passed in full to qualifying customers. For reference purposes, the discount to
the qualifying customer’s wholesale cost for qualifying new load will be
calculated according to the following schedule:
 
Months 1 - 12  20%
Months 13 - 24 15%
Months 25 - 36 10%
Months 37 - 48 10%
Months 49 - 60 5%
 
   (B)   (1)   The qualifying customer must meet the minimum qualifying demand
during each month of the incentive period (i.e., months one through 60, as
designated above).
      (2)   Failure to meet the minimum qualifying demand in a particular month
will result in 0% reduction for that month.
(Ord. 2018.05, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 50.43 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The qualifying customer must submit a service application to the
utility specifying:
      (1)   A description of the amount and nature of the new load;
      (2)   The basis on which the qualifying customer meets the requirements
of this rider;
      (3)   The qualifying customer’s desired effective date; and
      (4)   Any other information required by the utility.
   (B)   This subchapter will terminate on the same date that IMPA’s economic
development rider terminates; except that, any qualifying customer receiving
the rate incentive at the time of the rider’s termination may continue
receiving the incentive for the remainder of the applicable incentive period
(as long as it continues to meet this subchapter’s requirements).
(Ord. 2018.05, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 50.44 APPLICABLE RATE SCHEDULES.
   This subchapter is applicable to the rate schedules attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2018.05, passed 9-18-2018)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
51.01   Volumetric service rates by customer class
   
51.02   Special usage flat service rates
   
51.03   Power tracking factor
   
51.04   Flat facility charge
   
51.05   Disconnection; minimum charges
   
51.06   Security light rates
§ 51.01 VOLUMETRIC SERVICE RATES BY CUSTOMER CLASS.
   Subject to rate adjustments and monthly customer charges as hereinafter
provided by §
51.05 and this section, rates and charges for services rendered by the electric
utility of the town shall be as follows for each designated class of user:
Customer Class Monthly Usage Rate
Customer Class        Monthly Usage  Rate
Residential           First 300 kwh  In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
(inside and outside   Next 700 kwh   In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
corporate boundaries) Over 1,000 kwh In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
                      
Commercial            First 300 kwh  In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
(inside and outside   Next 700 kwh   In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
corporate boundaries) Next 1,500 kwh In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
                     Over 2,500 kwh In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                     Council from time to time
 
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017; Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-
26-2021)
§ 51.02 SPECIAL USAGE FLAT SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   For the following described special electric service, the indicated
monthly rates shall apply:
 
Type Service                            Rate
                                        In the amount as shall be set by the
Security lighting                       Town Council from time to time per lamp
                                        per month
Street lighting (standard wood pole and In the amount as shall be set by the
overhead wiring)                        Town Council from time to time per year
 
   (B)   When a customer requests street lighting service requiring special
poles or fixtures or the use of an underground distribution system, the
foregoing schedule of rates shall be increased to cover the municipal electric
utility’s additional cost to install, own, operate and maintain such special
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017; Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-
26-2021)
§ 51.03 POWER TRACKING FACTOR.
   All electric rates shall be subject to quarterly adjustments due to the
implementation of the Indiana Municipal Power Agency electric tracker. The
tracker is calculated and adjusted according to the cost of power purchased
from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 51.04 FLAT FACILITY CHARGE.
   (A)   For residential and commercial customer classes, there shall be
charged a flat monthly customer charge as follows:
      (1)   Residential: $7.50 per month; and
      (2)   Commercial: $10 per month.
   (B)   The flat monthly customer charge shall be in addition to any monthly
volume service rates.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017; Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 51.05 DISCONNECTION; MINIMUM CHARGES.
   Should electric service to any customer be disconnected by the town, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, no minimum charges shall accrue on such
customer’s account during the period services are disconnected. The fee for
reconnecting electric service to any customer following a disconnection shall
be$52 and shall be due and payable prior to the reconnection being made. The
fee for any returned check is $35.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017; Ord. 2021-07, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 51.06 SECURITY LIGHT RATES.
   Residents serviced by town utilities will be charged a fee in the amount as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time per month per security light
on their property.
(Ord. 2014-E-01, passed 12-8-2014)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Cross-connections
   
52.02   Shut-off valves
   
52.03   Hydrant meter and use policy
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Volumetric service rate inside town limits
   
52.16   Volumetric service rate outside town limits
   
52.17   Disconnection; minimum charges
   
52.18   Disconnection; outstanding, unpaid balances
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the water
system, and the other contains water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems. The utility (defined below) is
specifically a separate potable water system.
      UTILITY. The municipal drinking water system owned by the town, a
municipality and political subdivision of the state, and operated by its public
water utility.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection.
      (2)   No connection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the utility may enter the supply or distribution system of the
utility, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
utility and by the state’s Department of Environmental Management in accordance
with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
   (C)   The utility is hereby authorized to make inspections of any premises
served by the utility where a cross-connection with the utility is suspected or
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections shall be established
by the utility in its discretion, based on the potential health hazards
involved.
   (D)   Pursuant to state law, including I.C. 36-1-6-2, and this section, upon
presentation of credentials, authorized agents the utility shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time real property served by the utility to inspect
for cross-connections. On request by the utility, the owner, lessee or occupant
of any such premises shall furnish to the utility any pertinent information
about and access to the pipes, valves, drains, inlets, outlets and piping
systems on the premises. The refusal of access or the refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections on the premises.
   (E)   (1)   The utility is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any premises wherein any connection in violation of this
section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures as the utility
deems necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
system.
      (2)   Water service shall be discontinued only after notice is served on
the owner, lessee or occupants of the premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist, and a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation has
been given. The reasonableness of the opportunity to correct the violation is
fact-sensitive and will depend on the extent of the violation and the threat
posed to the public water supply. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated and the property is in
compliance with this section.
   (F)   If the utility, in its sole discretion, determines that a cross-
connection or emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, then water service to
the premises may be immediately discontinued by the utility. Any person
adversely affected by that discontinuance may request shall have an opportunity
to request for hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids and/or all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   Reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall not be installed
below ground level.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code, IDEM Rule
327 I.A.C. 8-10, or any other applicable building code, but is intended to be
supplementary to them.
   (J)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-4(c), from time to time
certain specialized customer facilities will be required to install a backflow
prevention device, as determined by the utility and Council by amendment to
this section.
   (K)   If, in the judgment of the utility, an approved backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the utility
shall give notice to the water consumer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water consumer shall, at the customer’s own expense, promptly
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the
utility and shall have inspections and tests made of that device.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 5-22-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 SHUT-OFF VALVES.
   (A)   The Town Council authorizes the town’s Water Utility Superintendent to
require a water shut- off value be installed on the customer’s side of service
prior to the return of water service once the water has been turned off for
repair, replacement or a new service connection.
   (B)   This section is necessary because of the expense to repair or replace
a water service due to unintentional damaging of equipment by customers turning
their own water services on and off without the use of proper equipment.
(Ord. 99-W-1, passed 11-10-1999)
§ 52.03 HYDRANT METER AND USE POLICY.
   The following documents, attached to the ordinance codified herein and made
a part hereof, are hereby adopted by the town as the town’s hydrant meter and
use policy and procedures:
   (A)   Hydrant - Bulk Water Policy;
   (B)   Hydrant - Meter and Use Policy;
   (C)   Hydrant Policy - Hydrant and Bulk Water Use Agreement; and
   (D)   Town utility hydrant application.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 6-11-2018)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 VOLUMETRIC SERVICE RATE INSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   For the use of and service rendered by the waterworks, each user shall be
charged in an amount based upon a fee schedule below.
 
Metered Rates
Monthly Minimum Charge            Rate
5/8-inch and 3/4-inch water meter In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                  Council from time to time
1-inch water meter                In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                  Council from time to time
1 1/2-inch water meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                  Council from time to time
2-inch water meter                In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                  Council from time to time
Monthly Usage
Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month Rate
Monthly Usage
Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month   Rate
First 2,000 gallons per 1,000 In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Next 1,000 gallons            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Next 7,000 gallons per 1,000  In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Next 10,000 gallons per 1,000 In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Next 30,000 gallons per 1,000 In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Over 50,000 gallons per 1,000 In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
 
Fire Protection Services
Per Annum        Rate
Public hydrants  In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
                 time
Private hydrants In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
                 time
 
Other Charges
Charges          Rate
Renter deposit   In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
                 time
Customer deposit In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
                 time
Returned check   In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
                 time
 
Tap Fee for Water
Meters                       Rate
5/8-inch and 3/4-inch meters In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                             from time to time
All other meter sizes        Actual cost of labor and materials and machinery
 
Turn On and Turn Off Fee
To Be Charged for Each Turn On and Each Rate
Turn Off
During office hours                     In the amount as shall be set by the
                                        Town Council from time to time
After office hours                      In the amount as shall be set by the
                                        Town Council from time to time
 
Late Charge Penalty
Delinquency                          Rate
All bills 30 days or more delinquent 10% of bill
 
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 52.16 VOLUMETRIC SERVICE RATE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   For customers both inside and outside the corporate limits of the town,
monthly wastewater rates shall apply as follows:
Type of Rate Rate
Type of Rate                  Rate
Base charge
   5/8-inch or 3/4-inch metIn the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
   1-inch meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
   2-inch meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
   3-inch meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Flow charge
   Per 1,000 gallons       In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Minimum charge per month      In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
Unmetered users               In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
 
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 52.17 DISCONNECTION; MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   Should water service to any customer be disconnected by the town,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, no minimum charges shall accrue on such
customer’s account during the period services are disconnected.
   (B)   The fee for reconnecting water service to any customer following a
disconnection shall be $50 and shall be due and payable prior to the
reconnection being made.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 52.18 DISCONNECTION; OUTSTANDING, UNPAID BALANCES.
   Should any customer who is a tenant relocate from one rented residence to
another and leave any outstanding and unpaid balance that is due and payable on
the water service account related to the customer’s former residence, the town
may disconnect the water service related to the customer’s new residence until
such balance is paid in full.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to any other sanction provided by §
52.01 of this chapter, a person who violates §
52.01 of this chapter shall, on the first offense, be fined in the amount as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. A person who violates §
52.01 of this chapter a second time shall be fined in the amount as shall be
set by the Town Council from time to time. A person who violates §
52.01 of this chapter a third time, or more, shall be fined a sum not to exceed
the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. The foregoing
shall together with reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the town in
enforcing §
52.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-2018, passed 5-22-2018)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
Rates and Charges
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   User classes; charges
   
53.03   Collection of charges
   
53.04   Appropriate rates; discharges
   
53.05   Surcharges
   
53.06   Preparation, billing and collection
   
53.07   Cost study
   
53.08   Bylaws and regulations
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The same meaning as defined in the Use
Ordinance.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage”.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 150 mg/l;
         (b)   SS not more than 100 mg/l; and
         (c)   NH4 not more than 30 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. The
permit issued by the state’s Department of Environmental Management for
discharges of wastewaters to navigable waters of the United States pursuant to
33 U.S.C. §§ 1151 to 1160.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
sewage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   SERVICE AREA. The area served by the town’s waste treatment system in the
county.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance incorporated
in
Chapter 54.
   SEWER MAINTENANCE COSTS. The costs to transport sewage and to repair the
collection system.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers and is
incorporated in
Chapter 54.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in
Chapter 54.
   TOWN. The Town of Advance, or any duly authorized officials acting on its
behalf.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial and institutional\governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any establishment involved in a
social, charitable, religious and/or educational function or federal, state or
local governmental which, based on a determination by the town, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 53.02 USER CLASSES; CHARGES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises is served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency and the state’s Department of
Environmental Management. Replacement costs, which are recovered through the
system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service of life of the
sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this subchapter shall be as follows: Class I:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Institutional/Governmental; and
      (4)   Industrial.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 53.03 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   For the use of and service rendered by the sewage works, each user shall be
charged in an amount based upon a fee schedule, shown in the following tables.
Metered Rates
Monthly Base Charge
Meter Rate
Metered Rates
Monthly Base Charge
Meter                         Rate
5/8- and 3/4-inch water meter In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
1-inch water meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
2-inch water meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
3-inch water meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
4-inch water meter            In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                              from time to time
 
Treatment Charge
Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month Rate
All meter sizes             In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council
                            from time to time
 
Minimum Charge
Charge                                Rate
Minimum charge per customer per month In the amount as shall be set by the Town
                                      Council from time to time
 
Non-Meter Customers
Customer                 Rate
Residential customer     In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
                         time to time
Non-residential customer To be determined on a case-by-case basis, not less
                         than residential user
 
Other Charges
Charge         Rate
Renter deposit In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
               time
Returned check In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
               time
 
Tap Fee for Sewer
Sewer Size               Rate
5/8- and 3/4-inch meters In the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
                         time to time
Other connection sizes   Actual cost of labor and materials and machine cost
 
Unpaid Bills by Renters
Unpaid bills by renters Owners shall be responsible for any unpaid bills by
                        renters
 
Late Charge Penalty
All bills 30 days or more delinquent 10% of bill
 
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 53.04 APPROPRIATE RATES; DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as
is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the district that
such quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not, a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving, the town and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install maintain meters, wires, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determining of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the town sanitary
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water supplied by
the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of water from
another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates or charges,
the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense, install and
maintain meters, wires, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measuring acceptable to the town for the determining of
sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge, the flow rates and charges and minimum charge
shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate
or building served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, wires,
volumetric measuring devises or any adequate and approved method of measuring
acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity or water is measured by a single water
meters, then in such case, billing shall be for the single service in the
manner set out elsewhere herein; except that, the minimum bill shall not be
less than the number of such dwelling units times the amount as shall be set by
the Town Council from time to time per month. In the case of mobile home
courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed for rent, plus any other
dwelling units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted
as a room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are
provided.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 53.05 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem
practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid or ammonia in excess of 30
milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-
normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge, in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time
to time, per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids received in excess
of 100 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge,
in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, per pound
of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 150 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (3)   Rate surcharge based upon ammonia. There shall be an additional
charge, in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time,
per pound for ammonia in excess of 30 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and The Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Regulation
40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on 10-16-1973.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 53.06 PREPARATION, BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly and, at the end of each year, each user shall be given notice of that
amount of money charged for operation, maintenance and replacement for that
user during the next preceding year.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided that, such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is now fixed at ten days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 53.07 COST STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users of user classes the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first year of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluent from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants, rate consultants or a firm of consulting engineers, which
firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 53.08 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the town for its sewage treatment plant.
(Ord. 92-53, passed 9-16-1992)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Purpose and policy
   
54.002   Administration
   
54.003   Abbreviations
   
54.004   Definitions
   
54.005   Wastewater treatment rates
General Sewer Use Regulations
   
54.020   Local standards and prohibitions
   
54.021   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.022   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
54.023   State pretreatment standards
   
54.024   Local limits
   
54.025   The town’s right of revision
   
54.026   Dilution
   
54.027   Prohibited activities
   
54.028   Mandatory connections
   
54.029   Lateral sewer connections
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
54.040   Pretreatment facilities
   
54.041   Additional pretreatment measures
   
54.042   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
54.043   Hauled wastewater
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
54.055   Wastewater analysis
   
54.056   Individual wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
54.057   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections
   
54.058   Individual wastewater discharge permitted; new connections
   
54.059   Individual wastewater discharge/permit application contents
   
54.060   Application signatories and certifications
   
54.061   Individual wastewater discharge permit decisions
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
   
54.075   Individual wastewater discharge permit duration
   
54.076   Individual wastewater discharge permit contents
   
54.077   Permit issuance process
   
54.078   Permit modification
   
54.079   Individual wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
54.080   Individual wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
54.081   Individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance
Reporting Requirements
   
54.095   Baseline monitoring reports
   
54.096   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
54.097   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
54.098   Periodic compliance reports
   
54.099   Reports of changed conditions
   
54.100   Reports of potential problems
   
54.101   Reports from unpermitted users
   
54.102   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
54.103   Analytical requirements
   
54.104   Sample collection
   
54.105   Date of receipt of reports
   
54.106   Recordkeeping
   
54.107   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
54.120   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
54.121   Search warrants
   
54.122   Confidential information
   
54.123   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
54.135   Informal notice
   
54.136   Notification of violation
   
54.137   Consent orders
   
54.138   Show cause hearing
   
54.139   Administrative orders
   
54.140   Compliance orders
   
54.141   Cease and desist orders
   
54.142   Administrative fines
   
54.143   Emergency suspensions to terminate discharge
   
54.144   Permanent termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
54.155   Injunctive relief
   
54.156   Criminal prosecution
   
54.157   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
54.170   Performance bonds
   
54.171   Liability insurance
   
54.172   Payment of outstanding fees and penalties
   
54.173   Water supply severance
   
54.174   Public nuisances
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
54.185   Upset
   
54.186   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.187   Bypass
   
54.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A - Guidelines for Installation of Sewer Laterals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works (POTW) for the town and enables the town POTW to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R.
part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the town POTW that
will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the town POTW that
will pass through the publicly owned treatment works, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with the publicly owned
treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both the town POTW personnel, who may be affected by
wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment, and the general
public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the POTW;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
      (6)   To enable the town POTW to comply with its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the town POTW is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the town POTW. This chapter
authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge permits; provides
for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
   (D)   To the extent that any provision of this chapter contradicts any
provision of any other ordinance of the town, the provisions in this chapter
shall apply.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Town Council, its legislative body,
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Town Council shall serve as the Municipal Works Board as provided for by I.C.
36-9-23-3 (the “Board”). The Board may delegate the powers to administer,
implement and enforce this chapter to a Superintendent or other duly authorized
designated assignees (Superintendent). Any powers granted to or duties imposed
upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent to a duly
authorized town employee or Council member.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   (A)   A.S.T.M - American Society for Testing and Materials;
   (B)   BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand;
   (C)   BMP - Best management practice;
   (D)   BMR - Baseline monitoring report;
   (E)   C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations;
   (F)   CIU - Categorical industrial user;
   (G)   COD - Chemical oxygen demand;
   (H)   EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency;
   (I)   gpd - Gallons per day;
   (J)   I.C. - Indiana Code, as may be amended;
   (K)   IDEM - Indiana Department of Environmental Management;
   (L)   IU - Industrial user;
   (M)   mg/L - Milligrams per liter;
   (N)   NPDES - National pollutant discharge elimination system;
   (O)   NSCIU - Non-significant categorical industrial user;
   (P)   POTW - Publicly owned treatment works;
   (Q)   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act;
   (R)   SIU - Significant industrial user;
   (S)   SNC - Significant noncompliance;
   (T)   TSS - Total suspended solids; and
   (U)   U.S.C. - United States Code.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The state, through the State Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM), is the APPROVAL AUTHORITY since the state has an EPA-
approved pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his or her
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
54.020(A) and (B) (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter, under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/L).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category
of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405-471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The State Department of Environmental Management
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any non-domestic source.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and,
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of “daily discharges”
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (l)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined under this division (3),
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this division (3)(b).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards and local
limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
54.020.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) below, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   The town may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to the town’s finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
54.107(B) (see 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q)(j)), together with any additional
information necessary to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the town may, at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL
USER.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
54.020. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including, but not
limited to, rain, hail, sleet and snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the Town Council to supervise the
operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized
representative (assignee) of the town and/or superintendent.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   THE TOWN OF ADVANCE (“TOWN”). The legal entity operated by the legislative
body of the town, a duly formed and organized state municipality.
   TOWN POTW OR POTW. A treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the town. This definition includes any
devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any
conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge. The residential,
commercial or industrial facility connected to and discharging waste into the
sanitary sewer collection system for subsequent treatment and disposal at and
discharge from the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.005 WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES.
   Rates charged to users for wastewater treatment are set forth in “An
Ordinance Establishing A Schedule Of Rates And Charges To Be Collected By The
Town Of Advance Municipal Sewage Works”, adopted by the town as Ordinance 20XX-
____, which may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
GENERAL SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 54.020 LOCAL STANDARDS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, permit to be
deposited or discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or any area under
the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary, commercial, industrial or polluted
wastewaters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   Except as herein provided, no person shall construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other wastewater treatment
facility intended or used for the treatment and/or disposal of sewage.
   (C)   No person shall construct, repair, modify or alter a sewer lateral,
public sewer, manhole or other sewer system appurtenance without first
obtaining a permit from the Superintendent.
   (D)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, pipe or
equipment which is part of the sewage system.
   (E)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, parking lot runoff, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer.
   (F)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated in the town, and
abutting any street, alley, right-of-way or easement in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town,
are hereby required at their own expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities and industrial waste outlets directly
with the public sewer in accordance with this chapter within 90 days after the
date of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within 300
feet of the property line.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing the town from entering into an agreement between the town and any
industrial discharger whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the town for treatment subject to payment for
treatment services by the industrial discharger.
   (H)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay for the
cost of constructing the sewer lateral from the building to the public sewer.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay for the cost of
maintaining the sewer lateral from the building to the limit of the public
right-of-way or easement of the public sewer. The town is responsible for the
maintenance and repair of the sewer lateral from the right-of-way or easement
line to the public sewer main including the sewer lateral fitting which
connects the sewer lateral to the public main.
   (I)   A separate and independent sanitary sewer lateral shall be provided
for each and every building, except present sewer structures in use; and except
that where one building stands at the rear of another on the same lot and no
sanitary sewer can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the sewer lateral from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole sewer lateral considered as one
sewer lateral for the single property.
   (J)   Old building sanitary sewer laterals may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found on examination and testing by the
Superintendent to meet all requirements of new sanitary sewer laterals.
   (K)   The Superintendent shall develop and submit to the Town Council for
approval written construction standards for the construction of sewer laterals,
sewer mains, manholes and other appurtenances which are connected to the town
sewer system. The Superintendent shall revise the construction standards as
appropriate and on a regular basis.
   (L)   The construction of all sewers, components, systems or private sewers
which connect to the town’s sewer system shall comply with the requirements of
the town’s standards. The acceptance of the applicability of these standards to
all sewers shall be considered part of the terms for the approval of connection
to the town’s sewer system.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce, or cause to be
introduced, into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce, or cause to be
introduced, into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch or one and one-fourth centimeters in any dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140°F (60°C), or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but, in no case, wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with §
54.043;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/L;
      (18)   Petroleum based oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, synthetic oil
or products of mineral oil or natural gas origin greater than 50 mg/L;
      (19)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (20)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron-pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not; and
      (21)   Pollutants which may cause damage to the collection system.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.022 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405-471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with §
54.021(E) and (F).
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (D)   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with the following divisions (E) through (H) below.
      (1)   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the industrial user’s intake water in accordance with
this section. Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to the town. Upon request of the industrial
user, the applicable standard will be calculated on a “net” basis (i.e.,
adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the
requirements of division (D)(2) below are met.
      (2)   Criteria:
         (a)   Either:
            1.   The applicable categorical pretreatment standards contained in
40 C.F.R. Subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net
basis; or
            2.   The industrial user demonstrates that the control system it
proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards would,
if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the absence of
pollutants in the intake waters.
         (b)   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), total suspended solids (TSS) and oil and grease should not be granted
unless the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the generic
measure in the user’s effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of
the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits
are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
         (c)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted under this
section.
         (d)   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. The town may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
   (E)   (1)   The Superintendent may convert the mass limits of the
categorical pretreatment standards of 40 C.F.R. parts 414, 419 and 455 to
concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to
individual industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Note: When converting such limits to concentration limits, the
Superintendent will use the concentrations listed in the applicable subparts of
40 C.F.R. parts 414, 419 and 455 and document that dilution is not being
substituted for treatment, as prohibited by §
54.025 (see 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d)). In addition, the Superintendent will
document how the equivalent limits were derived for any changes from
concentration to mass limits, or vice versa, and make this information publicly
available (see 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c)(7)).
   (F)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this §
54.021 in lieu of the promulgated categorical standards from which the
equivalent limitations were derived.
   (G)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (H)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the Superintendent within two business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Superintendent of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long term
average production rate.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.023 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the state pretreatment standards codified in 327
I.A.C. 5-16 through 5-21.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.024 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits, pursuant
to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
   (B)   (1)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum limit.
0.23 mg/L CBOD5
0.11 mg/L Chromium
0.71 mg/L Hexavalent chromium
2.53 mg/L Copper
0.24 mg/L Cyanide
0.69 mg/L Lead
0.01 mg/L Mercury
0.21 mg/L Molybdenum
1.04 mg/L Nickel
0.32 mg/L Selenium
0.60 mg/L Silver
1.19 mg/L Zinc
 
      (2)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.025 THE TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance, or, in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.026 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or, in other cases,
when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.027 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers, now in existence or as may be later
created, which have adequate capacity for their accommodation. No person shall
use such sewers, however, without the specific permission of the town. No new
connection shall be made to any sanitary or storm sewer unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (D)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (E)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (F)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
or served by the town’s water utility is hereby required, at his or her
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice to
do so; provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
As a condition of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s) shall grant a
right of access easement to the building sewer to the town for the purpose of
repair and inspection prior to backfilling.
   (G)   Upon connection to the public sewer, any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material by the owner(s).
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.028 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
54.026, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
complying with the provisions of the County Health Department.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) below, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner, at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the public sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Department of
Health or other governing authority.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.029 LATERAL SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
            1.   For residential and commercial service; and
            2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
         (b)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $500 for residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $1,000 for an industrial building sewer permit shall
be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed. Provided,
however, no permit and inspection fees will be required of any customer
connecting to a local or lateral sewer within 90 days of the date on which said
service was available for connection as a result of the initial construction
project.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with the new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the said inspector, to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the guidelines for
installation of building sewer laterals included at the end of this chapter, as
well as the plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and SPCF Manual of Practice FD-9 shall apply.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface run-off or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected,
directly or indirectly, to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the SPCF Manual of Practice in FD-9.
All such connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of
the said inspector, or his or her representative. The applicant shall provide
access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the inspector for the
purpose of establishing compliance with division (H) above.
   (J)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
   (K)   The “Guidelines for Installation of Building Sewer Laterals”,
incorporated as Appendix A, shall be adhered to with regard to building sewer
construction, installation, material and/or specifications.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 54.040 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
54.020 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the
Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.041 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, shall
comply with any oil and grease management program that may be in effect or
adopted by the town as needed and shall be so located to be easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and
repaired, in accordance with the oil and grease management program, by the user
at his or her expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.042 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
54.100; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas; handling and transfer of materials; loading and
unloading operations; control of plant site runoff; worker training; building
of containment structures or equipment; measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents; and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.043 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
54.020 through
54.029 or any other requirements established by the town. The Superintendent
may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of waste. The form
shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents and
whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 54.055 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 15 days of the request. The
Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.056 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
54.057 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
54.135 through
54.144,
54.155 through
54.157 and
54.170 through
54.174. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of his, her or its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state and local law.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.057 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
45 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
54.059, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
45 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with an
individual wastewater discharge permit issued by the town.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.058 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTED; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user discharging non-domestic wastewater that is required to obtain an
individual wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin or recommence
discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or
recommencing of such discharge. An application for this individual wastewater
discharge permit, in accordance with §
54.059, must be filed at least 60 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.059 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE/PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application. The Superintendent may require users to
submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit
application:
      (1)   Identifying information:
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner; and
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities and
plant production processes on the premises.
      (2)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
      (3)   Description of operations:
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes and rate of
production) and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried
out by such user. This description shall include a schematic process diagram,
which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day); and
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      (4)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
      (6)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other
streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out
in §
54.021(C) (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e));
      (7)   Measurement of pollutants:
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process;
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported;
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
54.103. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard; and
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
54.104.
      (8)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present (not above quantitative
level of detection) nor expected to be present in the discharge, based on §
54.098(B); and
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.060 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
54.107(A).
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Superintendent, pursuant to §
54.004 in division (3) of the definition for SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER, must
annually submit the signed certification statement in §
54.107(B).
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.061 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for an
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
§ 54.075 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.076 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as
are deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the town in accordance with §
54.079, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
54.098(B);
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law;
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary; and
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent (§
54.098(B)) must be included as a condition in the user’s permit.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spin control
plans or other special conditions, including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.077 PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Public notification. The Superintendent will publish, in an official
government publication and/or newspaper(s) of general circulation that provides
meaningful public notice with the jurisdiction(s) served by the POTW, and on a
web page, if applicable, a notice to issue an individual wastewater discharge
permit, at least 30 days prior to issuance. The notice will indicate a location
where the draft permit may be reviewed and an address where written comments
may be submitted.
   (B)   Permit appeals. The Superintendent shall provide public notice of the
issuance of an individual wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including
the user, may petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of an
individual wastewater discharge permit within 15 days of notice of its
issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the individual
wastewater discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this
objection and the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the individual wastewater discharge permit
shall not be stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the Superintendent fails to act within 15 days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider an
individual wastewater discharge permit, not to issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit or not to modify an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes of judicial
review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative individual wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by
filing a complaint with the circuit court of the county within 30 days after
notice of the permit or decision is issued.
(I.C. 4-21.5-5-5)
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.078 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the town’s POTW, town personnel, the sludge land application program, sludge
disposal or the state’s receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual wastewater
discharge permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
54.079.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.079 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 45 days advance notice
to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a
written certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
individual wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility
transfer.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.080 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
54.099;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.081 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
54.059, a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.095 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   Note: Users that become subject to new or revised categorical pretreatment
standards are required to comply with the following reporting requirements even
if they have been designated as non-significant categorical industrial users.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users, or those designated as non-significant
categorical industrial users, currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior
to commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard shall submit to the Superintendents report which contains
the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall report the
method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Application information. All information required in §
54.059(A)(1)(a), (A)(2) and (A)(3)(a);
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
54.059(A)(7)(a) through (A)(7)(d).
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(B)(2)(b).
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the control authority.
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
54.103.
         (e)   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
Discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative, as defined in §
54.004, and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
54.096.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
54.107(A) and signed by an authorized representative, as defined in §
54.004.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.096 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
54.095(B)(4).
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.097 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §§
54.059(A)(6) and (A)(7) and
54.095(B)(2). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
54.021, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
54.107(A). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
54.104.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.098 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Note: All SIUs are required to submit periodic compliance reports even if
they have been designated a non-significant categorical industrial user under
the provisions of division (C) of this section.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (C) below, all significant industrial
users must, at a frequency determined by the Superintendent, submit no less
than twice per year (June and December) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the
user must submit documentation required by the Superintendent or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   The Superintendent may authorize an industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated
by a categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
      (2)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See §
54.059(A)(B).
      (3)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
      (4)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
54.004, and include the certification statement in §
54.107(A).
      (5)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 C.F.R. part
136 with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user’s permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Superintendent for three years after expiration of the
waiver.
      (7)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user’s
permit by the Superintendent, the industrial user must certify on each report
with the statement in §
54.107(C) below, that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its
wastestream due to activities of the industrial user.
      (8)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user’s operations,
the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements of §
54.098(A), or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Superintendent, and notify the Superintendent.
      (9)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent may reduce the requirement for periodic
compliance reports to a requirement to report no less frequently than once a
year, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the
EPA/SDEM, where the industrial user’s total categorical wastewater flow does
not exceed any of the following:
         (a)   One hundredth percent of the POTW’s design dry-weather hydraulic
capacity of the POTW, or 5,000 gallons per day, whichever is smaller, as
measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the industrial
user discharges in batches;
         (b)   One hundredth percent of the design dry-weather organic
treatment capacity of the POTW; and
         (c)   One hundredth percent of the maximum allowable headworks loading
for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment standard
for which approved local limits were developed in accordance with §
54.023.
      (2)   Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in
the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in §
54.123. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user
with daily flow rates, production levels or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of the Superintendent, decreasing the
reporting requirement for this industrial user would result in data that are
not representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (D)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
54.107(A).
   (E)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (F)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in §
54.104, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.099 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to the
user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume of
its wastewater at least 60 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
54.059.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under §
54.081 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
54.078 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.100 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge; type of waste; concentration and volume, if known;
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which might be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.101 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All non-residential users not required to obtain an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the
Superintendent may require.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.102 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the town
performs sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the town
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the town receives the results of this
sampling, or if the town has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user. If the town performs the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user, the town will perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless
it notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the
repeat sampling and analysis. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(2).
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.103 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA
determines that the 40 C.F.R. part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.104 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the town, the samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols and sulfides, the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the town, as appropriate.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
54.095 and
54.097, a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities
for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which
historical sampling data are available, the Superintendent may authorize a
lower minimum. For the reports required by §
54.098, the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance by with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.105 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.106 RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained, pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and
documentation associated with best management practices established under §
54.023.
   (B)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses.
   (C)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years.
   (D)   This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.107 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
54.061; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
54.095(B)(5); users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
54.097; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
54.098(A) through (D); and users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of §
54.098(B)(4). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
54.004:
 
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
 
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by
the Superintendent, pursuant to §
54.004 in division (3) of the definition for SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER and §
54.061, must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements in §
54.004. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
Superintendent:
 
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing compliance with the
categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 C.F.R. ______, I certify that, to the best of my
knowledge and belief that during the period from __________, _________ to __________, _________
[months, days, year]:
 
(a)   The facility described as ___________________ [facility name] met the definition of a Non-
Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in §
54.004 in division (3) of the definition for SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER;
 
(b)   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards and requirements during
this reporting period; and
 
(c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total categorical wastewater on any
given day during this reporting period.
 
This compliance certification is based on the following information.
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
   (C)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
54.098(B) must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of
the user.
 
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 C.F.R. _________ [specify
applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
____________ [list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at
the facility since filing of the last periodic report under §
54.098(A).
 
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 54.120 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained, at all times, in a safe and proper operating condition by the
user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and
quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.121 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the town designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the circuit court of the county.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.122 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the
time of submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated
by the user furnishing a report that such information should be held
confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or
secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but
shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for
uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents
and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 2.302,
shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to
the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.123 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the town POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the
previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
divisions (B)(3), (B)(4) or (B)(8) below) and shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, as defined in §
54.004;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, as defined by §
54.004, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD; TSS; fats, oils and
grease; and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement, as
defined by §
54.004 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit or narrative
standard), that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 54.135 INFORMAL NOTICE.
   An informal notice may be a documented phone call, a written warning or a
meeting notifying the IU of minor incidences that have occurred and that need
to be corrected. Repeat performance of the same incidence, or escalation of the
incidence, will result in escalated enforcement action.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.136 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within ten business days of the receipt of such notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves
the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of
the Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.137 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §
54.139 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.138 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Town Council and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action and a request that the user show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least seven days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served
on any authorized representative of the user, as defined in §
54.004 and required by §
54.061. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.139 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   Administrative orders are notifications to the user as either a compliance
order or a cease and desist order to undertake or to cease specified activities
by a specified deadline. It is the first formal response to significant
noncompliance (unless factors necessitate escalated enforcement actions). It
may contain compliance schedules, administrative fines, termination of service
and show cause orders. In addition, it specifies the name of the parties
involved, statement of the facts, the requirement to ensure compliance and the
enforcement associated with any future non-compliance.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.140 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time, if the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.141 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.142 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed
$2,500. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis, in the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.5% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.143 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS TO TERMINATE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause,
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment, inclusive of the waters of the state.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
54.141 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
54.138 or
54.141.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.144 PERMANENT TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
54.080, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
54.020 through
54.029.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
54.138 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 54.155 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may petition the circuit court of the county
through the Town Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement
imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Superintendent may also
seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.156 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this chapter,
an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement may be referred to the prosecuting
attorney or to the United States Attorney, upon decision of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.157 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 54.170 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user
first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in a sum not to exceed a
value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.171 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user
first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to
restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.172 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines
or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of this chapter, a previous
individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.173 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user
may be severed. Service will recommence, at the user’s expense, only after the
user has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.174 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the Superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public
nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the code of the town concerning
nuisances, including reimbursing the town for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 54.185 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence, that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workpersonlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If the 24 hour
notification is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.186 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
54.021(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
54.021(B)(3) through (B)(18) if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.187 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   BYPASS means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any
portion of a user’s treatment facility.
      (2)   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Non-violating bypasses. A user may allow any bypass to occur which
does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only
if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These
bypasses are not subject to the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in divisions (D)(1)(a) through (D)(1)(b)
above.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   A penalty of $10 shall be assessed to any user for each day that a
report required by this chapter, a permit or order issued hereunder is late,
beginning five days after the date the report is due. Actions taken by the
Superintendent to collect late reporting penalties shall not limit the
Superintendent’s authority to initiate other enforcement actions that may
include penalties for late reporting violations.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
Appendix A - Guidelines for Installation of Sewer Laterals
GENERAL
The following guidelines shall apply for all residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional users connecting to the town sewer system. These
guidelines cover construction of sewer laterals from any serviced structure to
the user’s grinder pump station or existing sanitary main.
   •   Before building sewer excavation or construction begins, it shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to have all underground utilities located.
A toll-free service is provided for utility locations 1-800-382-5544. There is
a 48-hour advance notice prior to the commencement of any excavation.
   •   A 72-hour notification for inspection of the building sewer installation
will be required by the town.
   •   The property owner may do his or her own lateral work from inside the
structure to the sewer main line connection point. (PROPERTY OWNER is defined
as the person actually living in or owning the structure.)
   •   If the property owner is contracting out the installation of the
lateral, it must be done by a qualified contractor. The town can help
homeowners contact qualified contractors if necessary. A licensed plumber or
journeyperson is required if plumbing work is necessary inside the structure,
unless the work is completed by the property owner. (Normally work is not
required inside structures.)
   •   Property owners will be responsible for the maintenance of the building
sewer from the building to the right-of-way or easement.
   •   Property owners must comply with the town’s Sewer Use Ordinance 2021-03,
Sewer Rate Ordinance 2020-02, and the various codes (Building Code, Plumbing
Code, Electrical Code and the like), as adopted by the state, found in 675
I.A.C. 13 through 25, as may be applicable.
MATERIALS
PVC pipe and fittings shall have elastomeric joints, conforming to the
requirements of ASTM F-477 and ASTM D-3212 standards, commonly called “push-on”
joints or glued joints. All joints shall be water tight.
PVC pipe shall be either schedule 40 or SDR-35 or greater quality.
INSTALLATION
The following guidelines apply to the installation and connection of a user to
the town’s sewer system.
   •   Building sewers shall be installed using the shortest and most direct
route to the sewer main. Interior plumbing modifications are suggested rather
than excessive changes of directions in the exterior building sewer.
   •   All fittings shall be installed to guide sewage in the direction of
flow. There shall be no elbows greater than 45 degrees. If a change in
direction greater than 45 degrees is required, two 45-degree elbows (or a 45-
degree elbow and an elbow of standard degree, dependent on the degree of
direction change) shall be used. It is suggested that a cleanout be installed
between the elbows.
   •   It is required that the septic tanks be pumped of contents, the outlet
(effluent) line be plugged and the top destroyed prior to filling with sand.
Any questions related to abandoning existing septic tanks shall be directed to
the County Health Department.
   •   Individual sewer laterals shall be four inches (minimum) or six inches
in diameter (typically recommended to reduce clogging, blockage and the like).
The actual size of the lateral shall be at the discretion of the homeowner.
         a.   Four-inch diameter sewer - Minimum slope is 0/010 feet/feet (1.0%
or l/8 inch/feet).
         b.   Six-inch diameter sewer - Minimum slope is 0/005 feet/feet
(approximately 0.5%).
   •   Sewer cleanouts shall be installed a maximum of every 100 feet along the
building sewer. Accessible cleanouts shall be installed at every change of
direction.
   •   Cleanouts shall be extended to grade, pipe liners (frost sleeves) are
recommended to be placed around the cleanout grade extension. The cleanout
shall be a “Y” fitting installed in the direction of sewer flow with a 45-
degree fitting directed to grade.
   •   Cleanouts shall be the same diameter as the lateral sewer pipe, with a
minimum size of six inches in diameter. Cleanouts shall be covered with a
revocable type plug or cap.
   •   Prior to backfilling over the building sewer, all construction shall be
inspected and approved by an inspector from the town for verification of
compliance with minimum standards for design, material and workpersonship. Any
building sewer back-filled prior to inspection approval shall be required to
re-excavate for proper inspection and approval.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-14-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Applicability and limitations of town’s traffic regulations
   
70.03   Official time standard
   
70.04   Official traffic-control devices; tampering
   
70.05   Traffic regulations to be adopted by ordinance
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.20   Town Marshal duties; records and reports
   
70.21   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Traffic- and pedestrian-control signal legends; meaning, applicability
   
70.23   Obedience to traffic signs, signals; exception when directed by police
officer
   
70.24   Liability for violation of traffic regulations; service
   
70.25   Citation procedure; classification of violations
   
70.26   Collection of traffic fines and forfeitures
   
70.27   Disposition of town traffic fines; Street Traffic Improvement Account
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except where otherwise specifically defined herein, words and phrases, when
used in this traffic code, shall, for the purposes of this traffic code, have
the meaning respectively ascribed to them in I.C. 9-13-0.1-1 through 9-13-2-
200.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY AND LIMITATIONS OF TOWN’S TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions and requirements of traffic regulations adopted by the Town
Council shall be deemed to apply to all vehicles unless otherwise expressly
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 70.03 OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.
   Whenever certain hours are named in this traffic code, they shall mean local
time.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 70.04 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; TAMPERING.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, known down or remove any official traffic-control device or
sign or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS TO BE ADOPTED BY ORDINANCE.
   All local traffic regulations applicable to streets and thoroughfares under
town jurisdiction shall, in accordance with I.C. 9-21-1-2 through 9-21-1-3, be
adopted and put in effect only by means of ordinances enacted by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20 TOWN MARSHAL DUTIES; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   In addition to his or her other activities, it shall be the duty of the Town
Marshal to:
   (A)   Enforce the street traffic regulations of the town and all state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the town;
   (B)   Make arrests for traffic violations;
   (C)   Investigate all traffic accidents and make reports on a standard
accident report form;
   (D)   Maintain a standard system of filing accident records and records of
all arrests and warnings;
   (E)   Cooperate with other officers of the town of improvement of traffic
conditions; and
   (F)   File an annual report with the Town Council concerning the number of
traffic accidents, the number of moving violation and parking violations and
other data on the traffic activities of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 70.21 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Whenever any traffic-control regulation is imposed with respect to any
designated intersection, portion of street or other area, and as follows, it
shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or other officer so directed by
the Town Council to erect and maintain at such locations standard traffic-
control signs, signals, markings or devices in accordance with the Uniform
Traffic-Control Manual of the state:
      (1)   Designates a street to be one-way;
      (2)   Regulates the speed of vehicles in any manner different from the
prima facie speed limit applicable by statute;
      (3)   Designates a stop or yield intersection;
      (4)   Restricts use of a street as to size, weight or type of vehicle;
      (5)   Regulates or prohibits the turning of vehicles;
      (6)   Restricts the parking, stopping or standing of vehicles; or
      (7)   Is any other traffic regulation requiring the erection of signs
pursuant to I.C. 9-4-1-28(c) or another statute.
   (B)   In the case of any regulation which is general in character and not
made to pertain to any particular intersection, portion of street, or other
designated location, the Street Commissioner may cause appropriate signs to be
erected at such places wherein the Town Marshal finds that failure of persons
to be informed of and to observe the applicable regulation, and for such
regulation to be properly enforced, creates a substantial traffic hazard,
traffic congestion or public inconvenience.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 70.22 TRAFFIC- AND PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGENDS; MEANING, APPLICABILITY.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words go caution or stop or exhibiting different colored lights successively,
the colors of lights and meanings shall be as specified in state law and shall
apply to all drivers and pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 70.23 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS; EXCEPTION WHEN DIRECTED BY POLICE
OFFICER.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions or any official
traffic-control device placed in accordance with the traffic ordinances of the
town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. No person shall willfully
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; SERVICE.
   In the case of any moving violation, the operator of a vehicle at the time
the violation occurs shall be cited and held liable for the violation. In the
case of a non-moving violation, the operator of the vehicle having caused the
violation shall be cited and held liable if such person is present and can be
identified; otherwise, the registered or acknowledged owner or lessee of the
offending vehicle shall be presumed liable for the violation. If the owner or
operator of a vehicle which is in non-moving violation is not present at the
scene when the violation is discovered, the citation may be served by securely
attaching the violator’s copy of same in a conspicuous location on the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 70.25 CITATION PROCEDURE; CLASSIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An officer enforcing traffic regulations as established by town
ordinance shall, whenever practicable and except as hereafter provided,
classify the offense and mark the uniform traffic citation form as a local
ordinance violation so that the town will be eligible to collect or receive the
respective fine into the town treasury in accordance with state law.
   (B)   In the following instances, the violation shall be classified and
marked on the form as a state law violation:
      (1)   Where the violation is disobedience of a traffic-control sign or
signal established, erected and maintained by the state’s Department of
Highways with respect to a state highway or state- maintained route, and which
governs traffic proceeding along or entering or exiting such highway or route;
      (2)   Where the violation is disobedience of a traffic-control sign or
signal which has been erected by the town (whether under authority of an
ordinance or otherwise) merely for information purposes so as to better secure
the observance and enforcement of an applicable general state traffic law, as,
for example, with respect to a statutory no parking area, as defined under
state law; or
      (3)   In such places, or under such circumstances, where the application
and effect of a town traffic regulation, except a regulation lawfully altering
the prima facie speed limits, would serve to duplicate the provisions of a
general traffic statute (other than state law) whereby the same act would also
be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor or infraction under I.C. 9-30 et
seq., or any other state law, even if there were no such town ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 70.26 COLLECTION OF TRAFFIC FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, fines stipulated for violations of town
traffic ordinances may, within five days of the violation and citation, be paid
directly to the Clerk-Treasurer in settlement of the complaint.
   (B)   However, except as hereinafter provided, fines for the following
violations may not be paid to nor directly collected by the Clerk-Treasurer,
but may be paid, along with associated court costs and state fees (as
applicable), to the clerk of the court in which the complaint is filed:
      (1)   Violations cited by the enforcement officer as state law
violations;
      (2)   Violations cited by the enforcement officer as town ordinance
violations, but which are moving violations required to be reported to the
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, pursuant to state law, including, but not
necessarily limited to:
         (a)   Violation of town speed limits;
         (b)   Failure to obey stop or yield signs or signals; and/or
         (c)   Prohibited turning movements.
      (3)   Violations cited as town ordinance violations and which have
already been filed and docketed with a court after expiration of the five-day
period during which fines could have been paid directly to the town, pursuant
to
Ch. 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 70.27 DISPOSITION OF TOWN TRAFFIC FINES; STREET TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT.
   All traffic fines collected by the Clerk-Treasurer or remitted to the town
by a court for violation of traffic regulations established by town ordinance
and which have been cited and prosecuted as town ordinance violations shall be
deposited in the General Fund, in accordance with state law, and credited to a
special subsidiary account to be known as the “Street Traffic Improvement
Account”, which is hereby created and monies credited to which shall be used
exclusively in the construction, maintenance and repair of public streets,
bridges and street structures, or for the installation and maintenance of
traffic-control devices and street lights thereon, and for defraying costs of
enforcement of local and state traffic laws and regulations. Fines imposed for
violation of state traffic laws or regulations, or of local regulations cited
as state violations under state law, shall accrue to the state’s General Fund
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
70.04 of this chapter shall be liable to a fine in the amount as shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time and shall, additionally, be liable to the
town for any damage to public property resulting from the violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Unlawful operation
   
71.03   Local registration
   
71.04   Driver’s license
   
71.05   Financial responsibility
   
71.06   Time of operation; nighttime restrictions
   
71.07   Place of operation
   
71.08   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
71.09   Occupants
   
71.10   Towing prohibited
   
71.11   Exceptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. The meaning expressed in I.C. 9-25-4-1 et seq. (as
it now reads or may be amended in the future).
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically
commercially manufactured and intended to transport one or more individuals and
golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   HIGH VISIBILITY FLAG. A flag, the banner of which that is at least 60 square
inches and which is orange, yellow, green or red in color.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   SLOW VEHICLE SIGN. The triangular sign of the Department of Transportation
indicating a slow moving vehicle.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the state.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicle travel within the corporate limits of the town. The
term includes, but is not necessarily limited to, STREETS, ALLEYS, ROADS,
HIGHWAYS or THOROUGHFARES.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 71.02 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any town street, except as
specifically authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 LOCAL REGISTRATION.
   Any golf cart to be operated on a town street shall be registered annually
at the Police Department. Each registrant shall provide the vehicle
identification number and proof of financial responsibility with respect to
each golf cart to be registered. A registration fee in the amount as shall be
set by the Town Council from time to time shall be paid for each golf cart to
be registered, with said registration fee being deposited in the General Fund.
The registration certificate shall be maintained on or about the golf cart at
all times that it is in operation. A registration sticker will be provided by
the Police Department. The registration sticker must be displayed on the front
driver side of golf cart where it is be easily visible.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have a valid driver’s
license and must have the driver’s license in his or her possession while
operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart on town streets unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under
I.C. 9-25-4-4 (as it now reads or may be amended in the future).
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 TIME OF OPERATION; NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street between sunset and sunrise
unless the golf cart is equipped with two headlamps, two taillamps, front and
rear turn lamps and rear brake lamps, all of which must be visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at any of the following:
   (A)   Any town street designated as a state highway, except to cross any
state highway by traveling on a town street perpendicular to the state highway
at a location where the town street intersects with the state highway; and/or
   (B)   Any sidewalk, trail or greenway path not specifically designated for
use by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all traffic
laws and rules adopted by the state and the town, including restrictions and
prohibitions as set forth within this traffic code.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
factory installed seats. The operator and occupants shall be properly seated at
all times and no part of the body of the operator or occupants shall extend
outside the perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in operation;
provided, however, the operator shall use proper traffic hand signals when
required. No one under the age of eight years shall be permitted to be an
occupant of a golf cart without being restrained.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 TOWING PROHIBITED.
   No golf cart shall be used to tow any type of trailer or other vehicle of
any type.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts operated in connection with the Fire Department’s Labor Day
Festival, Halloween or other activity and with written permission of the Police
Department shall be exempted from the requirements of this subchapter when
operated within the confines of the portion of the downtown in which the
activity is taking place; provided, however, the operator of a golf cart must
still be a licensed driver and financial responsibility must be in effect with
respect to the golf cart.
   (B)   The Police Department shall have the authority to specifically permit
the use of golf cart by identified persons at other special events; provided,
however, the operator of a golf cart must still be a licensed driver and
financial responsibility must be in effect with respect to the golf cart.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who operates a golf cart in violation of §
71.02 of this chapter shall be subject to penalty pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3.3
and shall be subject to fines for a local ordinance violation in accordance
with the following fines:
      (1)   First offense: registration fee, plus a fee in the amount as shall
be set by the Town Council from time to time;
      (2)   Second offense: a fee in the amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time; and
      (3)   Third offense: a fee in the amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2013-6, passed 8-12-2013)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Turn restrictions
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Intersections; stop and through streets
SCHEDULE I. TURN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall determine and specify, by ordinance, those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make certain turns and
shall have proper signs placed at such intersections.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
   (B)   The making of a U-turn by any vehicle proceeding along a town street
intersecting Main Street (S.R. 75) at the intersection of any such street and
Main Street is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
   (C)   Any person who violates a turn restriction as provided in this
schedule shall be cited for a town ordinance violation and liable to a fine in
the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
(Ord. 77-2, passed 6-6-1977; Ord. 85-14C, passed - -1985)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Applicability of state presumptive urban speed limits. It is hereby
determined by the Town Council that the entire area within the corporate limits
of the town constitutes an urban district, as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-193.
Unless a higher or lower speed limit is hereinafter fixed for a particular area
by the Town Council, in accordance with I.C. 9-21-5-6, and signs erected
accordingly, the presumptive (prima facie) urban speed limit of 30 mph, as
fixed by I.C. 9-21-5.5, shall be deemed to apply and shall be enforced in all
areas of the town whether or not signs are erected. Violators of the 30 mph
speed limit applicable under this schedule shall be cited and prosecuted for a
violation of state law (Class C infraction), pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5.5 and I.C.
9-30 et seq. and subject to penalties as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
   (B)   Special town speed limits established.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5-6, and in consideration of traffic
investigations, the Town Council hereby finds that the prima facie urban speed
limit, as fixed by I.C. 9-4-1-58(b)(1), is either greater or less than
reasonable, and special town speed limits as indicated are established and
shall be enforced when signs are erected on the following described portions of
streets under town jurisdiction:
         (a)   On Ash Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street;
         (b)   On Cherry Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street;
         (c)   On Nicely Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street;
         (d)   On Oak Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street;
         (e)   On Roark Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street;
         (f)   On South Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street lying
west of a point 500 feet west of the eastern corporate limits of the town;
         (g)   On Wall Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street lying
between a point 500 feet west of the eastern corporate limits of the town and a
point 500 feet east of the western corporate limits of the town; and
         (h)   On Walnut Street: 20 mph on all portions of such street.
      (2)   A person violating special speed limits, as established in this
schedule, shall be cited for a town ordinance violation and liable to penalties
as established in division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
   (C)   Penalties for violating.
      (1)   A person admitting guilt or convicted of violating special town
speed limits, as established under division (B) above, shall be liable to a
fine as follows:
 
Amount Over Posted Limit Minimum Fine              Maximum Fine
                         In the amount as shall be In the amount as shall be
Less than 10 mph         set by the Town Council   set by the Town Council from
                         from time to time         time to time
                         In the amount as shall be In the amount as shall be
10 mph - 25 mph          set by the Town Council   set by the Town Council from
                         from time to time         time to time
                         In the amount as shall be In the amount as shall be
25 mph - 40 mph          set by the Town Council   set by the Town Council from
                         from time to time         time to time
                         In the amount as shall be In the amount as shall be
More than 40 mph         set by the Town Council   set by the Town Council from
                         from time to time         time to time
 
      (2)   For purposes of administering this schedule, the enforcement
officer shall note on the court and office copies of the traffic citation the
amount by which the violator was found to have been exceeding the posted town
speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
(Ord. 77-2, passed 6-6-1977; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985; Ord. 85-14C, passed -
-1985; Ord. 85-17C, passed - -1985)
SCHEDULE III. INTERSECTIONS; STOP AND THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   General. When stop signs are erected at or near the entrance to any
intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle at such sign or
at a clearly marked stop line before entering the intersection, except when
directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control sign.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
   (B)   Recognizance and enforcement of state highway intersection controls.
      (1)   It is hereby noted that Main Street, being S.R. 75, has been made a
preferential street and stop signs or signals have been erected and maintained,
by the state’s Department of Highways, at the intersections of the following
town streets and Main Street:
 
Intersecting Stop Street
Cherry Street
Oak Street
Roark Street
South Street
Wall Street
 
      (2)   A person violating a stop sign or signal, as noted in this division
(B), shall be cited for a state offense under state law and subject to
penalties as provided in I.C. 9-30 et seq. (Class C infraction).
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
   (C)   Preferential town streets designated; one-way and two-way stop
intersections; penalties.
      (1)   The following named or described streets, alleys or other
thoroughfares, as indicated in the following table, are designated stop streets
at their point of intersection with the correspondingly designated preferential
(through) street, and all vehicles approaching the intersection along the stop
street must come to a complete stop and give safe right-of-way to any vehicles
on the preferential street before entering the intersection:
Stop Street Preferential Street
Stop Street     Preferential Street
Ash Street      Wall Street
Cherry Street   Nicely Street
                Walnut Street
Nicely Street   Wall Street
Thompson Street Wall Street
                Ash Street
Walnut Street   Roark Street
                Wall Street
 
      (2)   A person who violates this division (C), when signs are erected,
shall be cited for a town ordinance violation, and shall be liable to a fine in
the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Town “no parking” areas established; penalties.
      (1)   When signs are erected, parking shall be prohibited in the
following described areas during the times indicated: on East Wall Street, on
the side adjacent to the front property line of the United Christian Church and
between the side lot lines of such church, at all times.
      (2)   A person violating parking restrictions, as provided in division
(A)(1) above, shall be cited for a town ordinance violation and liable to a
fine in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, and
each day that the violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
   (B)   Posting of certain statutory “no parking” zones.
      (1)   “No parking” signs shall be erected and maintained by the town to
require recognition and provide enforcement of the following “no parking”
areas, as described by I.C. 9-21-16: on East Wall Street, within 20 feet of the
driveway entrance to the fire station, on the side of the street in front of
the fire station and on the opposite side of the street within 75 feet of said
entrance.
      (2)   A person violating division (B)(1) above, when signs are erected,
shall be cited for a state offense in violation of I.C. 9-4-1-114, and liable
to penalties as provided by I.C. 9-30 et seq. (Class C infraction).
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
(Ord. 85-17C, passed - -1985)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES
      
92.   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
County Regulations
   
90.01   County regulations adopted
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Responsibilities and prohibitions
Town Animal Control and Regulations
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   General town animal regulations
   
90.17   Recognizance and enforcement of related state animal control laws
   
90.18   Impounded animals; procedure and notices
   
90.19   Impounded animals; time period for retaining animals in custody
   
90.20   Reclaiming impounded animals; procedures; fees
   
90.21   Authority to destroy vicious or ferocious animals
   
90.22   Reports of animal bites; further actions
   
90.23   Licensing of dogs and cats
 
   
90.99   Penalty
COUNTY REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts County Ord. 2018-02, enacted on 6-4-2018, and as that
County Ord. 2018-02 may be amended in the future.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. This
subchapter does not apply to livestock, as defined in I.C. 15-15-2-47.
   ABANDONED. Placed or left upon public property or upon the private property
of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or tenant of
the property, or is unattended or uncared for.
   ANIMAL. A member of the animal kingdom, except humans, dead or alive,
domestic or not.
(I.C. 15-17-2-3)
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A person who is authorized to implement and
enforce county animal ordinances and state statutes and as defined in state
statutes and is a sworn law enforcement officer, as defined under state law.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING CONTEST. Any event or activity facilitated by a person or
persons in which animals engage in violent, aggressive or otherwise harmful
conduct with another animal in a form that is not generally associated with the
species under normal circumstances.
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center, an animal shelter, a humane
society or another animal impounding facility that has, as its purpose, the
humane care and treatment of animals.
(I.C. 6-9-39-1)
   AT LARGE. Leaving or straying away from the land owned, rented or leased by
the owner or custodian of the animal or not being kept in direct control of an
owner or possessor of the animal. AT LARGE does not include the use of a dog
under the supervision of a person to hunt, chase or tree predatory animals or
game birds, or the use of a dog to control or protect livestock or in other
related agricultural activities.
   BEAT. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical force
or contact in a manner which has, as its main objective, inducing pain,
inflicting harm or causing discomfort in a manner that could not reasonably be
described as an appropriate means of discipline.
   BITE. A wound inflicted by an animal tooth causing a tear, puncture,
abrasion or other marking on the skin in which blood is visible or the skin is
damaged.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family.
   CATTERY. Any place in which three cats or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats, whether unmanaged or managed.
   CUSTODIAN. A person who is in temporary direct control of an animal, as
authorized by the owner of the animal, or is a law enforcement officer acting
within his or her scope of duties to impound or possess an animal. This may
include, but is not limited to, a veterinarian, an animal grooming facility, a
law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
   CRUELTY. Any intentional or knowing act or omission whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering or death is caused, permitted or allowed to
continue where there is reasonable remedy or relief.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Under the immediate physical restraint of the owner or
custodian of the animal or within the confines of land owned, rented or leased
by the owner or custodian of the animal.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family.
   DOMESTIC. Generally and commonly known to live in or about the habitation of
humans.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal kept as a pet or used for service, protection,
comfort, companionship, hobby or similar purpose.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable or unable to be approached or handled.
   HARBOR. Performing acts of providing care, shelter, protection, restraint,
refuge, food or nourishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HUMANE TRAP. A device or procedure to contain or dispose of an unwanted
animal, as permitted by law, in a way that provides minimal discomfort or
unnecessary pain to the animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other person whom is empowered to act by law
and transporting it to an animal care facility or humane society.
   KENNEL. Any place in which three dogs or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An appointed officer or employee hired by and on
the patrol of the state, or any of the state’s political subdivisions, as
defined under state law, who is granted lawful authority to enforce all or some
of the penal laws of the state, and who possesses, with respect to those laws,
the power to effect arrests for offenses committed in the officer’s or
employee’s presence.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, bison, horses, mules, poultry or
other animals that are commonly associated with activities associated with
fanning or food production.
(I.C. 5-17-2-47)
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with a humane
society or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap, neuter
and return methodology.
   MUTILATE. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical
force or contact in a manner which has, as its main objective, created changes
to the physical appearance of the animal in a manner that could not reasonably
be described as an appropriate and common modification for the animal species
involved. Spaying or neutering or any other procedure that changes an animal
does not constitute MUTILATION if the procedure is done in a certified facility
by a person certified to perform the procedure or is a common or accepted
practice in the industry specific to the animal.
   NEGLECT. An intentional or knowing act or omission whereby an animal is
deprived of adequate and reasonable food, water, shelter, exercise, air or any
other resource commonly associated with the health and wellbeing of the
particular animal species involved.
   OFFICE. The Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains or has lawful
possession of an animal; however, this shall not include a person hired or
acting as custodian of the animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, firm, association, partnership
or corporation.
   QUARANTINE. A place or period of isolation as to prevent cross
contamination, infection or other hazardous events, as determined by a law
enforcement officer, animal control officer, health department, the humane
society or any other agent permitted by law.
   SECURE RESTRAINT. A structure or device that maintains physical control of
the animal; this can include, but is not limited to, a fence of adequate design
and strength, a tethering device which is securely attached to the animal at
one end and a fixed object at the other end or a cage. An “invisible fence”, a
fence of inadequate design and strength or other structures or devices that
cannot maintain physical control of the animal under normal circumstances are
not considered a SECURE RESTRAINT.
   SPAY/NEUTER. An operation done to a female or male animal to prevent the
conception of offspring.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner, or has escaped restraint and is running at large.
   VICIOUS. Known to bite, attack or injure human beings, domestic animals,
companion animals or livestock without provocation. No animal may be declared
VICIOUS if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a human being who, at
the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing, assaulting or otherwise provoking the animal, or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, assaulted or
otherwise provoked the animal involved, or was committing, or attempting to
commit, a crime.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 90.03 RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The County Board of Commissioners finds that the terms
and conditions of this subchapter are in the best interests of all citizens and
animals of the county. Therefore, this subchapter shall be in full force and
effect in both the incorporated and unincorporated part of the county unless or
until a municipality within the county adopts an ordinance prohibiting
enforcement of this subchapter within the boundaries of the municipality. For
purposes of this subchapter, if a municipality (city or town) has reorganized
with a township, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-5-1-1 et seq., the term INCORPORATED
means areas within the former city or town limits and any platted subdivision.
   (B)   Basic responsibilities and duties of animal owners.
      (1)   Every owner of every domestic animal kept in the county, whether in
the care of the owner or a custodian, shall see that such animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement. The
owner or custodian of the animal shall regularly and as often as needed
maintain all animal areas to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems;
         (b)   Shall be provided with proper amounts of food that is
nutritionally appropriate for the species to maintain good health;
         (c)   Shall have fresh drinking water;
         (d)   Shall have ventilation and appropriate shelter from the
elements;
         (e)   Is able to exercise and move about freely, as needed by the
species;
         (f)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke or pronged collar nor by
any rope, chain or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck in lieu of an
appropriate collar, nor by a leash less than 12 feet in length or of such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;
         (g)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork or any other mistreatment;
         (h)   Is provided with reasonable necessary medical care or attention
and maintains current on inoculations outlined by this subchapter or by state
law; and
         (i)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state
and local laws and regulations regarding animal care and control.
      (2)   Any person who witnesses a violation of this section shall notify
the animal control officer or local law enforcement within 24 hours.
   (C)   Cruelty, abuse and neglect.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit, or otherwise
participate in, acts of animal cruelty. Acts of cruelty shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   An act of maliciously killing, abusing, maiming or disfiguring
any animal or willfully or maliciously administering poison to any animal or
exposing any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous substance
shall be taken and consumed by such animal (does not include the killing of
animals for the protection of persons or property);
         (b)   An act of overloading, torturing, tormenting, depriving an
animal of its necessary sustenance or shelter, beating, mutilating, killing or
carrying an animal in or upon a vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner;
         (c)   An act of failing to supply an animal with wholesome food and
water, keeping an animal in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and
ventilation or abandoning any animal to die;
         (d)   An act of owning, possessing, keeping or training an animal with
the intent that such animal shall be engaged in an animal fighting contest;
         (e)   Building, maintaining, making or keeping a pit on premises owned
or occupied by the person for the purpose of an exhibition of an animal
fighting contest;
         (f)   Encouraging, instigating, promoting or assisting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest; or
         (g)   Charging admission, being an assistant in or promoting an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest.
      (2)   Any animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal pursuant to or during an investigation under this
subchapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons or humane traps for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles or
other similar rodents, raccoons, possums or other pests, as long as the person
using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure that neither domestic animals
nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
      (5)   If the number of domestic animals being kept or harbored by an
owner or custodian jeopardizes the health or welfare of the animals, some or
all of the animals may be impounded, and the animal control officer may pursue
any remedies provided under this subchapter.
   (D)   Restraint of animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any domestic
animal to allow such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tags
or not, within any incorporated area of the county. Any and all such domestic
animals found at large may be immediately impounded by the animal control
officer or any law enforcement officer and the officers may pursue the animal
onto private property to effect capture of the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any domestic
animal that typically resides within any incorporated area of the county to
ensure that the animal is kept under secure restraint and that reasonable care
and precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner or custodian and ensure that the animal cannot easily dig,
climb, jump or otherwise escape the secure restraint.
      (3)   Chaining of a domestic dog is discouraged, but if it is done, the
following is required.
         (a)   All base responsibilities and duties described in this
subchapter are met at all times.
         (b)   The chain must be at least 12 feet in length, regardless of the
size of the dog.
         (c)   The chain must be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical
damage to the dog’s neck or body.
         (d)   The chain must be able to move freely in all directions.
         (e)   These restrictions do not apply to owners and their animals that
are participating in sanctioned dog shows or similar events.
      (4)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine
such animal within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions.
         (a)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog’s escape with
all points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times.
         (b)   A “beware of dog”, or similar wordage, sign shall be
conspicuously displayed on each exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet
of enclosure, with a minimum of two, as well as a sign on each ingress or
egress point to the enclosure. Signs shall be a minimum of ten inches high and
14 inches wide.
   (E)   Restraint of female domestic animals in estrus. The owner or custodian
of any female domestic animal in estrus (commonly referred to as heat) shall
confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in such a manner as to prevent
the animal from becoming a nuisance and to prevent conception except during
planned breeding.
   (F)   Permanent identification of a domestic animal required.
      (1)   A person who owns a domestic animal which is six months or older
which permanently resides in the county with an owner whose legal address falls
within the county limits shall ensure that, at all times, the animal bears a
permanent means of identification such that the owner can be ascertained
accurately, quickly and easily.
      (2)   The means of identifications required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by state law of other provisions of
this subchapter, and shall be either by means of:
         (a)   A microchip implanted in the animal that bears a registered
identification number and can be read by a standard microchip scantier; or
         (b)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn, at all times,
by the animal and the tag bears the owner’s current name, address and telephone
number.
      (3)   The identifying chip or tag may only be removed by the animal’s
owner, custodian or veterinarian acting on behalf of the owner, and can only be
temporarily removed for reasonably short periods of times for the ability to
maintain the animal’s health and hygiene.
      (4)   Each veterinarian or other person in the county who implants a
microchip shall make available, upon request, to the animal control officer the
names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner(s) of the animal and the
corresponding microchip identification number. Such records shall be available
to the animal control officer without court order.
   (G)   Vaccinations and proof of vaccination.
      (1)   The owners of all domestic animals within the county must comply
with vaccination requirements as set forth in state law, local ordinance and
the rules and regulations for the State Board of Health and the County Health
Department.
      (2)   All dogs, cats and ferrets three months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat and ferret
shall be maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows.
         (a)   Ferrets shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
         (b)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the
prior vaccination.
         (c)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 12 months of the first vaccination and shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
      (3)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the
vaccinations required by this section.
      (4)   All dogs shall have a rabies vaccination tag securely affixed to
its collar or harness at all times and owners of dogs, cats and ferrets must be
able to provide documentation of rabies vaccination within 24 hours of being
asked by the animal control officer or local law enforcement agency.
      (5)   Vaccinations records must be supplied by the owner to the animal
control officer upon request if the animal has bitten, or is suspected of
biting, a person or other domestic animal.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly, intentionally or
recklessly abandon a domestic animal or livestock as described by this
subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to abandon an animal upon private
property which the person owns, leases, rents or otherwise has a contractual
interest in unless the animal is checked on routinely and all basic
responsibilities and duties of animal owners are met.
      (3)   A defense to this division (H) may include an unforeseen medical
emergency of the owner or custodian of the animal.
      (4)   Colonies and feral cats are excluded from this division (H).
   (I)   Vicious animals. It shall be unlawful for a person to cause, permit,
accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious animal on the
streets or public places of the county or allow the animal to run on the
premises of another, at any time, unless, in addition to the other requirements
of this subchapter, the animal is securely muzzled to effectively prevent it
from biting any person or other animal.
   (J)   Animal bites and quarantine.
      (1)   In the event of a human being bit by a domestic animal, the animal
shall be quarantined in conformity with state law and the rules and regulations
of the State Board of Health and the Health Department.
      (2)   Every incident involving a human being bit by an animal shall be
reported within 24 hours to a local healthcare establishment, a law enforcement
agency or the animal control officer. It is the duty of the person bitten or
the person’s parent or guardian to make the report in conformance with 410
I.A.C. 1-2.3-52, as amended.
      (3)   If the animal involved is located and able to be detained, the
animal shall be quarantined as determined by the health department and state
law.
      (4)   Law enforcement animals maintaining current certification are
exempt from this division (J).
   (K)   Public nuisance animals.
      (1)   A public nuisance animal shall mean and include, but is not limited
to, a domestic animal that:
         (a)   Is found at large (stray);
         (b)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
         (c)   Is vicious;
         (d)   Attacks without provocation;
         (e)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances
causing unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept; or
         (f)   Is not being kept in conformity with county ordinances and
regulations pertaining to land, animals and ownership.
      (2)   A public nuisance animal may be impounded by the animal control
officer, without a court order, and the owner or custodian of the animal cited
for a violation of this subchapter. The animal may be returned to the owner
upon proof of ownership, proof of payment of damages (if any) and proof of
reasonable attempts to mitigate the cause of nuisance determination.
   (L)   Animal sacrifice.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in, participate in,
assist in or perform animal sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess or
harbor any animal with the purpose or intention of using such animal for animal
sacrifice.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly sell, offer for
sale, give away or transfer any animal to any person when he or she knows or
believes that person intends to use such animal for animal sacrifice.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing, as
permitted by the laws of the state and the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   Vehicles and animals.
      (1)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal’s owner, if
known, or the local law enforcement agency or animal control officer. The
person must provide the location of the incident, a description of the animal
and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to provide his or
her name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the only purpose of
this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
      (2)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a non-domestic animal shall immediately notify the local law
enforcement agency or animal control officer if any of the following exists:
         (a)   The collision leaves debris or carnage which constitutes a road
hazard;
         (b)   The collision causes damage to a secondary vehicle or injury to
a pedestrian; and/or
         (c)   The collision causes damage to private property if the driver of
the involved vehicle does not have a contractual interest with the property.
      (3)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle, whether on private
or public property, in which the conditions of the vehicle would constitute a
health hazard to the animal.
      (4)   No animal shall be transported in the trunk of a vehicle, a small
storage compartment of a vehicle (i.e. glove box) or in any other fashion which
restricts the animal from reasonable mobility and access to air during
transport.
      (5)   An animal in a vehicle involved in a motor vehicle collision should
be:
         (a)   Released to the owner or custodian of the animal if possible;
         (b)   Be held by the law enforcement agency and released to a person
named by the owner or the custodian of the animal if that person can be to the
scene in a reasonable time period; or
         (c)   Transported to an animal care facility for a temporary holding
period.
   (N)   Stray animals.
      (1)   A person who finds a stray animal should notify the local law
enforcement agency or the animal control officer within 24 hours.
      (2)   A person possessing the lost or stray animal must comply with all
rules and regulations of this subchapter pertaining to humane care and
treatment of animals while the animal is in custody awaiting the return to the
owner or intervention of an animal care facility, the local law enforcement
agency or the animal control officer.
   (O)   Injured animals.
      (1)   A person who discovers an injured domestic animal or accidentally
causes injury to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal’s owner,
if known; the local law enforcement agency; or the animal control officer.
      (2)   The person must provide the location of the incident, a description
of the animal and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to
provide his or her name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the
only purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its
owner.
   (P)   Deceased animals.
      (1)   A person finding a dead domestic animal, large undomesticated
animal that constitutes a road or biohazard or the surviving offspring of
either shall call the local law enforcement agency or the animal control
officer immediately.
      (2)   If the local law enforcement agency is called, the agency shall:
         (a)   Notify the animal control officer if foul play is suspected or
the death appears to be caused by factors other than an accident, such as a
vehicular collision, or natural causes, if the animal is a domestic animal; or
         (b)   Contact the appropriate agency to properly dispose of the
animal’s remains, i.e. the County Highway Department.
      (3)   Any deceased animal located on private property must be disposed of
within 24 hours in accordance with state law, the policy and/or the rules of
the State Board of Animal Health or industry standards as the case may dictate.
The property owner is responsible for the disposal even if a third party was
responsible for the death of the animal.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
TOWN ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Livestock or animals belonging to species normally kept,
harbored and maintained by persons as pets, irrespective of the particular
reason for which an individual animal is kept or maintained.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, poultry and other such
animals, which are ordinarily kept, bred or maintained for the purposes of
animal husbandry or commercial breeding, but applies to any such animal
irrespective of the particular reason for which such individual animal is kept
or maintained.
   LOT SIZE. The total area of a tract of land, or of two or more contiguous
and adjoining lots or tracts of land, including any area occupied by buildings,
all of which a single owner or occupant holds at his or her exclusive disposal.
   RECKLESS. With clear and deliberate or grossly negligent disregard for the
safety and welfare of persons and property.
   TO RUN AT LARGE. For an animal to be loose upon public property or in a
public area, or upon private property other than that of the animal’s owner or
keeper and without the consent of the owner or tenant of such private property,
without direct and responsible human control and supervision.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal, which is not a domestic animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 90.16 GENERAL TOWN ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   No person having ownership or custody of an animal shall, within the
corporate limits of the town:
   (A)   Knowingly or negligently permit a domestic animal to run at large, or
to destroy or deface shrubbery, lawns, flowers, gardens or other property;
   (B)   Keep any animal, which by barking, howling, yelping or making any
other noise, disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood, or which by foul
and noxious odors detracts from the use, enjoyment and value of surrounding
properties;
   (C)   Keep any animal known to be dangerous, other than securely confined in
an enclosed area on the premises of the owner with clearly visible signs posted
to warn persons of the presence of such animal;
   (D)   Knowingly or negligently permit an animal to kill or injure livestock
or other domestic animals, or to attack or injure any person who is engaged in
lawful pursuits;
   (E)   Knowingly or negligently permit any animal to chase or harass vehicles
or pedestrians on public streets and sidewalks, or obstruct the normal use of
streets and sidewalks;
   (F)   Fail to confine any female dog or cat in heat in a closed building so
that such animal cannot come into contact with other animals except for planned
and supervised breeding;
   (G)   Keep any livestock on any property having a lot size of less than one
acre; provided, however, that the Town Council may, at its discretion, grant a
conditional variance from this provision if it finds that surrounding
properties would not be adversely affected or that an unreasonable hardship
would result by virtue of disruption of an existing use of property at the time
this provision first becomes applicable thereto;
   (H)   Keep any wild animal, other than such small species as may be lawfully
obtained through regular retail pet stores, or animals kept by zoos, circuses,
educational institutions or scientific establishments which are authorized
under the game and wildlife laws of the state or the United States to keep and
harbor such animals in captivity; or
   (I)   Walk any dog on the streets or other public places except on a leash
controlled by the dog’s owner or other responsible person, and when not on a
leash, such dog shall be confined to the property of its owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 RECOGNIZANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF RELATED STATE ANIMAL CONTROL LAWS.
   In addition to any requirements of §
90.16, all state laws governing animal control are noted and shall be enforced
in the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; PROCEDURE AND NOTICES.
   When an animal is impounded under §
90.99(C)(1), the Town Marshal may retain such animal in his or her custody for
such period of time as he or she determines that it will be feasible to
properly confine, shelter and care for the animal at any town facilities
available for such purpose. When the Marshal shall determine that it is no
longer feasible to keep such animal, he or she shall deliver custody of the
same to the nearest of most convenient municipal, county or humane society
pound which will accept custody of the animal. However, if the animal is a wild
animal of a species or livestock, and is sufficiently mature to care for itself
in the wild, the Marshal may immediately release the same in a suitable area
outside of the town. If the owner or keeper of an impounded domestic animal is
known, the Marshal shall notify him or her of the animal’s impoundment. If the
owner or keeper is not known, the Marshal shall post a notice describing the
animal, the time and place of its impoundment and the reason therefor at the
Town Hall, and if the animal is livestock which may have wandered from outside
the town limits, a copy of the notice shall also be sent to the office of the
County Sheriff.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 90.19 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; TIME PERIOD FOR RETAINING ANIMALS IN CUSTODY.
   An impounded domestic animal shall be kept by the Town Marshal or by a pound
into whose custody it is delivered for at least five days. However, if the
animal is a dog and the only reason for its impoundment was failure to have a
township dog tax tag, the dog shall be kept for at least 20 days. After the
applicable time period has expired, the Marshal or pound may humanely destroy
or otherwise lawfully dispose of the animal unless such disposal is enjoyed by
a court, the County Health Officer or the state veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 90.20 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; PROCEDURES; FEES.
   (A)   Unless a court, the County Health Officer or the state veterinarian
orders the continued detention of an animal, the owner or keeper of an
impounded domestic animal, other than an animal at any time while the same is
in custody of the Town Marshal, by paying to the town the following fees:
      (1)   A charge of $5 for picking up the animal; and
      (2)   A charge of $2 per day for boarding and feeding the animal (but
only 250 per day, or the maximum amount then permitted by I.C. 15-5-9-14 if the
only reason for impounding the animal was failure to have a township dog tax
tag).
   (B)   If the Town Marshal delivers the animal to a pound outside of the
town, the above charges shall nevertheless apply for the animal is in the
Marshal’s custody, and an additional fee of $10 for transporting the animal
shall apply. Such charges and fees are in addition to any penalties or costs
assessed under §
90.99(C)(2), (C)(3) or (C)(4). Any pound into whose custody an animal is
delivered may not release the animal to its owner or keeper without the written
authorization of the Marshal showing that the above charges owing to the town
have been paid, but, in addition, may charge and collect its own usual and
standard period of time the animal was in the custody of such pound as a
further condition of the animal’s release. An animal which was impounded by
reason of a suspected violation of I.C. 35-46-3-2 shall be deemed in protective
custody and may not be released to its owner or keeper except by order of a
court having jurisdiction of the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7)
§ 90.21 AUTHORITY TO DESTROY VICIOUS OR FEROCIOUS ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, the Marshal, or his
or her officers, are authorized to immediately destroy any vicious or ferocious
animal which cannot be safely captured or kept in custody by usual and
available means, or which is observed to be attacking a person or livestock.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 90.22 REPORTS OF ANIMAL BITES; FURTHER ACTIONS.
   Upon receiving information that any person in the town has been bitten by an
animal, the Marshal shall immediately make a report of the incident to the
County Health Officer, and shall thereafter take further action as the Health
Officer, and shall thereafter take further action as the Health Officer may
direct.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 90.23 LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Town limits. All dogs and cats kept, owned or harbored within the town
shall be licensed annually January 1 through December 31 by the owner thereof.
The dog and cat shall be required to wear, at all times, a license tag for the
current calendar year.
   (B)   Charge. The charge for said license shall be $5 per license, with a
maximum of $15 per household.
   (C)   Register. The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a register of said license
and issue tags to the owner, which shall be attached to a collar worn by the
dog or cat.
   (D)   Impounded animals, time period for retaining animals in custody. Any
dog or cat found to be in violation of this section may be impounded pursuant
to the provisions of §
90.19.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed - -2016)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of a domestic animal found to be roaming at large or
stray may be fined in the amount as shall be set from time to time by the Town
Council for the first offense and in the amount as shall be set from time to
time by the Town Council for each subsequent offense involving the same animal
occurring within one year.
      (2)   The owner of any animal, or person in whose care an animal is
entrusted, or other individual found to be in violation of any provision of §§
90.02 and
90.03 relating to cruelty, abuse, mutilation, sacrifice or willful neglect of
an animal may be fined in the amount as shall be set from time to time by the
Town Council for each offense or animal.
      (3)   For any other violation of §§
90.02 and
90.03, the owner may be fined in the amount as shall be set from time to time
by the Town Council.
      (4)   In addition to any fines imposed, the owner may be responsible for
any and all court costs imposed and may be responsible to reimburse the county
for any and all legal costs associated with the enforcement proceeding.
      (5)   An animal control officer may enter private property and
investigate any violation of §§
90.02 and
90.03 and impound any animal where there is reasonable suspicion that the
animal is a public nuisance, or is subject to, or in danger of, cruelty, abuse
or neglect.
      (6)   All violations of §§
90.02 and
90.03 or any action seeking enforcement by fine or injunction shall be filed
and prosecuted by the County Attorney, or his or her designee, in the county
superior court.
   (C)   To secure the proper enforcement of the provisions of §§
90.16 and
90.17, the appropriate authorities of the town may pursue any or a combination
of the following remedies as they deem most appropriate to the case:
      (1)   Taking into consideration and impounding any animal found to be
kept in violation of any provision applicable under §§
90.16 or
90.17;
      (2)   If the violation is a violation only of a town regulation
applicable under §
90.16, and is not concurrently a violation of a statute as noted under §
90.17, citing the owner or keeper of the animal for a penal town ordinance
violation, and, upon conviction thereof, he or she shall be liable to a fine in
the amount as shall be set from time to time by the Town Council for the first
citation, in the amount as shall be set from time to time by the Town Council
for the second citation and in the amount as shall be set from time to time by
the Town Council for the third or more citation;
      (3)   If the violation constitutes an infraction or crime under statute,
as noted in §
90.17, citing or arresting the owner or keeper of the animal for such state
offense, subject to penalties as provided by law; and/or
      (4)   Seeking an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction to
require the compliance of the owner or keeper of the animal under the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-6-4 or any other law entitling public authorities to
enjoin the violation of ordinances or statutes, and including an action to
recover all costs to the town of bringing the action for injunction.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
   (D)   Section
90.23 shall be enforced pursuant to the procedures outlined in division (C)
above. However, the penalty for a violation of §
90.23 shall be in the amount as shall be set from time to time by the Town
Council for the first offense, in the amount as shall be set from time to time
by the Town Council for the second offense, in the amount as shall be set from
time to time by the Town Council for the third offense, in the amount as shall
be set from time to time by the Town Council for the fourth offense, with the
penalty being raised in the amount as shall be set from time to time by the
Town Council for each successive offense thereafter.
(Ord. 08-G-2, passed 6-9-2008; Ord. 2016-02, passed - -2016; Ord. 2018-02,
passed 6-4-2018)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Acts or conditions generally defined as public nuisances
   
91.02   Enforcement officers designated
   
91.03   Abatement procedure; Class A nuisances
   
91.04   Abatement procedure; Class B nuisances
   
91.05   Class B nuisances; appeal of abatement order; failure to abate; further
procedures
   
91.06   Limitations of applicability and exceptions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ACTS OR CONDITIONS GENERALLY DEFINED AS PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following acts or conditions are hereby deemed and declared to be public
nuisances detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare of the
community, and the proper officers of the town are authorized to require and
enforce the abatement of such nuisances as, in their discretion, they shall
deem necessary.
   (A)   Class A nuisances. The following acts or conditions shall be deemed
Class A nuisances, and are subject to abatement in the manner provided by §
91.03 of this chapter:
      (1)   Operating or permitting the operation of radios, phonographs, tape
recorders, amplifiers, musical instruments, power tools or similar devices, or
conducting or participating in noisy or boisterous parties or gatherings,
producing noise of such unreasonable level or at such unreasonable hours and
plainly audible beyond the property boundary or through partitions within a
building, so as to cause other persons to complain of being disturbed thereby
or which appears, in the opinion of an enforcement officer, to substantially
disturb the tranquility of a neighborhood;
      (2)   Causing or permitting excessive and annoying noise or dust from the
operation of machinery or vehicles, except to the extent that their operation
is necessary for the ordinary purposes of construction, industry or
transportation, and the noise and dust is natural to their operation and cannot
be prevented by reasonable and ordinary means;
      (3)   Detonation or use of firecrackers, blank pistols or other fireworks
or explosive devices for purposes of amusement or celebration, other than in
the case of properly qualified persons authorized by the Town Council to
conduct public fireworks displays;
      (4)   Causing or permitting the emission and dissemination of dense,
toxic, foul-smelling, irritating or annoying smoke, fumes, dust, ash products
or condensates; and
      (5)   Causing or permitting any other act or condition which results in a
substantial and imminent threat to the public health or safety.
   (B)   Class B nuisances. The following acts or conditions shall be deemed
Class B nuisances, and are subject to abatement in the manner provided by §
91.04 of this chapter:
      (1)   Maintain any condition of property, other than a natural condition
of the land, which:
         (a)   Is conducive to the breading or harborage of noxious, annoying
or injurious animals and insects, including, but not limited to, rats, mice,
mosquitoes, flies and termites;
         (b)   Involves the accumulation and storage, for unreasonable periods
of time, in front or side yard or other areas visible from a public street or
other public place of broken or discarded furniture and household equipment,
packing boxes, abandoned equipment or machinery or other litter or debris;
         (c)   Invites or provides harborage for trespassers, vagrants,
criminals or persons intent on the conduct of illegal or immoral activities;
         (d)   Is maintained in such condition as to become so defective,
unsightly or in such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same
cause appreciable diminution of the property values of surrounding properties;
or
         (e)   Constitutes the maintenance of a specific hazard or an
attractive nuisance, such as, but not limited to, improper storage or
protection of highly vehicles or machinery, unprotected pools or excavations,
dead or decayed trees, or inadequately guarded electrical wiring.
      (2)   Operation of electrical or mechanical equipment or machinery which:
         (a)   Causes electrical or electromagnetic interference with radios,
televisions, telephones or other communications or electronic equipment; or
         (b)   Cause earthshaking vibrations, detectable beyond the premises
where such equipment is operated and causing or potentially causing damage to
property or annoyance to others.
      (3)   Any other act or condition, to the extent not defined as a Class A
public nuisance, and which:
         (a)   Works an unreasonable injury, harm or prejudice to others or the
public generally;
         (b)   Is done to the unreasonable hurt and annoyance of the lands,
tenements or hereditaments of others or the public;
         (c)   Endangers life or health;
         (d)   Gives unreasonable offense to the senses;
         (e)   Violates the laws of common decency; or
         (f)   Constitutes an abuse of public or another’s private property or
impedes the normal use and enjoyment of public or private property by others.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS DESIGNATED.
   The following officers of the town are empowered to enforce the provisions
of this chapter:
   (A)   The Town Council, through its lawfully adopted orders;
   (B)   The Town Marshal and police officers;
   (C)   The Street Commissioner, to the extent that any nuisance impairs or
makes dangerous the use of the public streets, alleys, sidewalks or other
public property under the authority and supervision of the Street Commissioner;
   (D)   The town’s Utility Superintendent, to the extent that any nuisance
impairs the use or operation of the public utility systems; and
   (E)   The Town Attorney, to the extent hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; CLASS A NUISANCES.
   If any enforcement officer finds that a Class A nuisance, as defined in §
91.01(A) of this chapter, is being is being caused or permitted and should be
abated, the enforcement officer shall determine and confront the person or
persons responsible for the nuisance and order such person or persons to
forthwith abate or to cease and desist from any act causing or constituting the
nuisance. Any person failing to comply with an order of the enforcement officer
shall be subject to immediate citation for a penal violation, and subject to
the penalties as provided by §
91.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 91.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; CLASS B NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any enforcement officer finds that a Class B nuisance, as defined
by §
91.01(B) of this chapter, is being caused or permitted and should be abated,
the enforcement officer shall serve or send by registered mail a dated written
notice to the person determined to be responsible for causing or permitting the
nuisance, and also to the owner of any property from which the nuisance
emanates, if different.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the offending act or condition, and the location thereof,
and state that such act or condition is condemned as a public nuisance in
violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Require that the act or condition be abated or ceased within a
reasonable and specified period of time, not less than ten days;
      (3)   Specify the corrective actions which would be considered a
satisfactory abatement of the nuisance;
      (4)   State that failure to abate the nuisance in a satisfactory manner
within the specified time will constitute a penal violation subjecting the
violator to fines as hereafter provided for each day that the nuisance
continues unabated, and that the violator and/or property owner may
additionally be liable to costs of abatement by the town enforceable through a
lien against the property from which the nuisance emanates, or to further legal
action by the town and the costs thereof;
      (5)   State that the person served, the owner or occupant of the affected
property, or any other person having a substantial interest in the affected
property or the matter of the nuisance may, within ten days of the date of the
notice, file a written request within the Clerk-Treasurer for an appeal hearing
before the Town Council and that such hearing will be granted within 30 days of
the filing of the request and that, if such appeal is filed, all further action
shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing; and
      (6)   Be singed with the name and title of the enforcement officer. A
copy of the notice shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and, if the nuisance
emanates from any real property, a copy shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on such real property.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 91.05 CLASS B NUISANCES; APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER; FAILURE TO ABATE; FURTHER
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   If an appeal of an abatement order is duly filed as provided by
§
91.04(B)(5) of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall present the request to
the President of the Town Council, who shall schedule a hearing within 30 days
of the filing; the hearing may be conducted at either a regular or special
meeting of the Town Council, but shall be open to the public. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall give written notice to the appellant of the date, time and
place of hearing. The appellant may appear in person, by attorney or may make a
written appearance, but in all events shall be obliged to show to the
satisfaction of the Council that:
         (a)   The cited act or condition does not, in fact, constitute a
substantial public nuisance within the meaning of this chapter or any other
town ordinance; or
         (b)   The required abatement would work an undue hardship on the
appellant or others such as to outweigh any benefits to the public.
      (2)   In addition to the appellant, any other resident of the town shall
have a right to be heard as to whether or not the abatement order should be
enforced. After the hearing, the Town Council shall adopt a motion either
rescinding the abatement order or upholding the same. However, if it upholds
the order, the Council may grant an extension of the deadline for compliance,
as it deems reasonable in the circumstances, or may modify the requirements for
abatement.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
   (B)   If any person, having been served notice of liability for a Class B
nuisance, or having appealed such notice and the order being upheld as provided
by division (A) above and §
91.04 of this chapter, fails to abate such nuisance within the applicable
deadline, the enforcement officer shall cite such person for a penal violation
of this chapter, and shall further give written notice to the Town Council
President and the Town Attorney of the person’s failure to abide by the order.
Thereupon, the Town Council President, in consultation with the Town Attorney,
may:
      (1)   Direct an appropriate officer or department of the town to enter
upon the property from which the nuisance emanates, or to employ a private
contractor to do so, and perform the necessary corrective action, keeping an
accurate account of all costs incurred by the town, which account of costs
shall be invoiced to the owner of the property by the Clerk-Treasurer shall
direct the Town Attorney to take and file a lien against the property as
provided by I.C. 36-1-6-2 and other applicable provisions of law governing the
taking of property liens; or
      (2)   Direct the Town Attorney to file an action for injunction against
the violator as provided by I.C. 36-1-6-4(a), or under any other law whereby an
injunction or order of mandamus may be sought to enforce a town ordinance, and
including a collateral action to recover all costs to the town, including
attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 91.06 LIMITATIONS OF APPLICABILITY AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to, nor prohibit, any of
the following acts or conditions:
      (1)   Any act or condition resulting from the conduct of an agricultural
or industrial activity which has been carried on for more than one year, and
the nuisance of the activity results from a change in the locale and environs
of the activity rather than a change in the activity itself, and the activity
would not have constituted a substantial nuisance, except for such change in
the locale or environs, to the extent provided by state law; or
      (2)   Any act or condition expressly required or authorized by any law of
the United States or the state, or any ordinance or order adopted by the
Council, or by any regulation, license or permit promulgated or issued under
authority thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to be supplementary to,
and do not supersede, any other ordinance declaring or implying any act or
condition to be a public nuisance, or regulating the same, or providing a
procedure for the enforcement of such provisions or penalties for their
violation. If any act or condition is such as to constitute a violation both of
this chapter and another town ordinance, the matter may be enforced in
accordance with either ordinance, as the proper town authorities deem most
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who causes or permits any public nuisance, as defined in §
91.01 of this chapter, and who fails to abate or cease same when duly ordered
or notified to do so within any applicable time period for compliance as herein
provided, commits a penal violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, shall
be fined in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time
for each offense, and each day that a violation constitutes a separate offense
if not otherwise compromising a separate and distinct act and violation. The
penalties provided by this section are in addition to any liability for
abatement costs, damages or other costs arising out of the unlawful maintenance
or abatement of a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
CHAPTER 92: WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
Section
   
92.01   Definitions and standards
   
92.02   Maintenance of weeds and rank vegetation prohibited
   
92.03   Enforcement; duties of Clerk-Treasurer and Town Marshal; service of
notice to landowner
   
92.04   Failure to comply; removal by town; billing of costs to landowner
   
92.05   Non-payment of bill by landowner; certification to County Auditor for
collection with property taxes
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LANDOWNER. The owner-of-record of any property as shown in the most recent
property tax abstracts on record in the office of the County Auditor, and
includes jointly or severally two or more persons owning property in
partnership or joint tenancy.
   RANK VEGETATION.
      (1)   Lawn grass or weeds which are permitted to grow to a height of more
than six inches on any developed residential, commercial or industrial property
(whether occupied or not), or to a height of more than one foot on any
undeveloped land or land in agricultural use; or
      (2)   Trees, bushes, shrubs, vines and the like, whether cultivated or
naturally growing, which are permitted to grow so as to:
         (a)   Encroach upon, obstruct the normal use of, or render hazardous a
public sidewalk or vehicular thoroughfare; or
         (b)   Encroach upon, impair the normal use and enjoyment of or detract
from the appearance of any adjacent public or private property.
   WEED. Any plant, vine or small bush, which is naturally growing and is not
normally planted deliberately, cultivated and maintained for ornamental or
agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 92.02 MAINTENANCE OF WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to the inhabitants of the town for
any person to allow weeds to other rank vegetation to grow upon their lands
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT; DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER AND TOWN MARSHAL; SERVICE OF
NOTICE TO LANDOWNER.
   The landowner shall be given a five-day written notice to remove the weeds
or other rank vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 92.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMOVAL BY TOWN; BILLING OF COSTS TO LANDOWNER.
   If the landowner fails to remove the weeds or rank vegetation within the
time prescribed, the Town Council may remove the weeds and rank vegetation. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by
the town in the removal. The statement shall be tendered to the owner of the
real estate by the Town Marshal or by registered mail, and the owner shall have
not more than ten days within which to pay the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 92.05 NON-PAYMENT OF BILL BY LANDOWNER; CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY AUDITOR FOR
COLLECTION WITH PROPERTY TAXES.
   If the landowner fails to pay the sum owing under §
92.04 of this chapter within the time prescribed, a certified copy of the
statement of cost shall be filed in the Auditor’s office of the county, and the
Auditor shall place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against the lands
of the landowner affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected as
taxes are collected and, when collected, shall be dispersed to the General Fund
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   JUNK YARDS AND JUNK MERCHANTS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, CANVASSERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: JUNK YARDS AND JUNK MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Operation of junk yards prohibited
   
110.03   Legal action for abatement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap iron, scrap tin, scrap brass, scrap copper, scrap lead or scrap
zinc and all other scrap metals and their alloys, and bones, rags, used cloth,
used rubber, used rope, used tinfoil, used bottles, old or used machinery, used
tools, used appliances, used fixtures, used utensils, used lumber, used boxes
or crates, used pipe or pipe fittings, used automobiles or airplane tires and
other manufactured goods that are so worn, deteriorated or obsolete as to make
them unusable in their existing condition, but are subject to being dismantled.
   JUNK MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
buying, selling, exchanging or dealing in old junk, metals, bottles, siphons,
old rope, old iron, brass, copper, tin or lead, second-hand plumbing materials,
second-hand gas and electric fixtures, old rubber tires or other used or old
articles commonly designated as “junk” and having a store or stand or place of
business.
   JUNK YARD. A place where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but not including the purchase or storage of used
furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition, used or
salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 78-5, passed 5-1-1978; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 110.02 OPERATION OF JUNK YARDS PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared that the operation or maintenance of any junk yard
within the corporate limits of the town constitutes a nuisance to the
inhabitants of the town, and it shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any
junk yard, or place for the collection of junk, within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 78-5, passed 5-1-1978; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LEGAL ACTION FOR ABATEMENT.
   As a remedy for the abatement of any such nuisance, the town shall have the
power to commence and prosecute suits for the abatement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 78-5, passed 5-1-1978; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   As an additional remedy, any person, firm or corporation violating any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty in the amount as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for any one offense, and
each day’s violation thereof shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 78-5, passed 5-1-1978; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, CANVASSERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration certificate required
   
111.03   Application for certificate; procedure and requirements
   
111.04   Application fees
   
111.05   Waiting period for issuance of certificate; exception for pre-
qualified charitable organizations
   
111.06   Carrying and display of registration certificate required
   
111.07   Certificates non-transferable
   
111.08   Revocation of certificates
   
111.09   Regulations governing house-to-house soliciting and canvassing
   
111.10   Exceptions and exemptions to requirements
   
111.11   Pre-qualification of charitable organizations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. A person who conducts surveys or solicits other economic
sociological, demographic, product preference or other such information from
households and occupants, but who does not directly or immediately offer to
sell or take orders for any merchandise, services or other commodities based on
such information.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any nonprofit charitable, educational, religious,
scientific or civic organization as described and defined in I.R.C. § 501(a) or
501(c) of the United States, and includes any regional, area or local
affiliates, chapters or subsidiaries of such organization.
   CHARITABLE SOLICITOR. A person who, without benefit of personal gain or
profit, solicits donations or sells commodities, the net proceeds of which are
dedicated to support the operation or purposes of a charitable organization.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR. A person who sells, offers for sale or solicits orders
for goods, merchandise, subscriptions, enrollments, tickets, services,
intangible commodities or any other commodities and who receives or expects to
receive from such transaction any pay, commission, profit or other financial
benefit or gain as personal remuneration for conducting such activities.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a canvasser or
solicitor, calling at residences for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales,
subscriptions or business of any kind, or seeking information or donations,
without first having registered in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person desiring to secure a commercial solicitor’s, canvasser’s or
charitable solicitor’s certificate of registration shall apply therefor in
writing over his or her signature to the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FEES.
   Certificates of registration may be obtained for periods, and a non-
refundable fee shall accompany each application for a certificate of
registration, as follows:
 
Type of Certificate        Period          Fee
                                           In the amount as shall be
Canvasser                  1 - 2 days      set by the Town Council
                                           from time to time
Charitable solicitor                       In the amount as shall be
(individual)               1 - 2 days      set by the Town Council
                                           from time to time
Charitable solicitor (pre- As specified in None
qualified blanket)         application
                                           In the amount as shall be
                           1 - 2 days      set by the Town Council
                                           from time to time
                                           In the amount as shall be
Commercial solicitor       1 week          set by the Town Council
                                           from time to time
                                           In the amount as shall be
                           1 year          set by the Town Council
                                           from time to time
 
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.05 WAITING PERIOD FOR ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE; EXCEPTION FOR PRE-
QUALIFIED CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall not issue the registration certificate
required by §
111.02 of this chapter until a period of 24 hours has expired from the time
application has been made.
   (B)   However, this limitation does not apply in the case of a pre-qualified
charitable organization, and the Clerk-Treasurer may immediately endorse
approval on the application and provide a copy to the applicant organization.
   (C)   The pre-qualified organization shall then provide copies to its
individual members or representatives named in the application, which copy
shall serve as the person’s certificate of registration for purposes of §
111.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.06 CARRYING AND DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   Each person shall, at all times while soliciting or canvassing in the town,
carry upon his or her person the registration certificate, and the same shall
be exhibited by such registrant whenever he or she is required to do so by any
police officer or requested to do so by any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 CERTIFICATES NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   A certificate of registration issued under this chapter shall be non-
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.08 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATES.
   Any registration certificate issued under this chapter may be revoked by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer or Town Marshal because of any violation by the registrant
of this chapter or of any other ordinance of the town, or of any state or
federal law, or whenever the registrant shall cease to possess the
qualifications and character required by the provisions of the original
registration.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.09 REGULATIONS GOVERNING HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SOLICITING AND CANVASSING.
   The following specific regulations must be obeyed by any person engaging in
soliciting or canvassing.
   (A)   Time limitations. It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
going upon the premises of another for the purpose of soliciting orders,
contributions or information, or for the purpose of selling or peddling, after
the hour of 7:30 p.m. of any evening, or before 8:00 a.m. of any morning,
except with the prior consent or invitation of the owner or occupant of such
premises.
   (B)   Display and observance of restrictive signs. Any owner or occupant of
a residence who does not wish to be visited by any solicitors or canvassers, or
would wish to invite only charitable solicitors, may exhibit a weather-proof
card, approximately three inches by four inches in size, upon or near the main
entrance door of the residence, containing the applicable words as follows: “NO
SOLICITORS”, “NO SOLICITORS OR CANVASSERS” or “CHARITABLE SOLICITORS ONLY” or
similar wording of clear intent. For the purpose of uniformity, the cards shall
be provided by the Town Marshal to persons requesting them at the proportionate
cost thereof. Every solicitor or canvasser, upon going onto any premises which
is a residence, shall examine and abide by any such sign, whether or not the
solicitor or canvasser is licensed by the town, and it shall constitute a penal
violation of this chapter for such solicitor or canvasser to ring the doorbell
or, near any door, to create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in
defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   Departure from premises when requested. Any solicitor or canvasser who
has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately
and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by the
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -1985;
Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS TO REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following persons or
activities:
   (A)   To honorably discharged veterans of foreign wars exempt from municipal
licensing requirements under state law and who limit their soliciting
activities to sales of goods, wares, fruits and merchandise; provided, however,
that, for purposes of §
111.06 of this chapter, such persons shall carry their military discharge
papers or other official document demonstrating eligibility for such exemption,
and the provisions of §
111.09 of this chapter shall apply to such persons;
   (B)   Officers or employees of the town, county, state or federal
government, or any subdivision thereof, when on official business;
   (C)   Persons operating or employed in the operation of a regularly
established and conducted direct route delivery system; or
   (D)   Persons calling at residences for purposes governed by this chapter,
but by prior appointment and consent of an occupant of the residence made
through telephone, mail or other previous direct contact.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-10) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -
1985; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.11 PRE-QUALIFICATION OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of §
111.10(D) of this chapter, the Town Council may, at its discretion, and either
by application or on its own initiative, by resolution, declare any charitable
organization to be pre-qualified for purposes of application and licensure if
it finds that:
      (1)   The organization and its purposes are nationally or locally well
known and generally accepted to be in the public interest and benefit;
      (2)   The organization regularly or traditionally conducts fund-raising
or charitable solicitation activities in an orderly manner and with integrity
consistent with the purposes of the organization and with adequate supervision
of its members or representatives engaged in the activity;
      (3)   Members or representatives engaged in the activity do not receive
pay, commissions or other private and personal remuneration or financial
benefits for their services; and
      (4)   The preponderance of the members or representatives of the
organization to engage in the activities within the town are residents of the
town or the vicinity of the town.
   (B)   A declaration of pre-qualification may be rescinded by the Council
whenever it deems desirable.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-11) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -
1985; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in soliciting or canvassing without a license, as
required by §
111.02 of this chapter, or in violation of regulations set forth in §
111.09 of this chapter shall be liable to a fine in the amount as shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time and each day that a violation continues
shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-12) (Ord. 83-3, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-5C, passed - -
1985; Ord. 85-6C, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Liquor retailer’s permits
§ 112.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   The Town Council expressly consents that liquor retailer’s permits may be
issued to applicants in respect to premises located within the town.
(Ord. 08-G-01, passed 3-10-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS PROJECTILES
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Special hours for minors; enforcement
§ 130.01 SPECIAL HOURS FOR MINORS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It is hereby provided that:
      (1)   No person who is under 15 years of age shall be on, or remain in,
any public place or establishment, whether in a vehicle or otherwise, between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. of any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   No person who is 15, 16 or 17 years of age shall be on, or remain
in, a public place or establishment, whether in a vehicle or otherwise:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on a Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday night and 5:00 a.m. on the following day; or
         (b)   Between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on a Saturday or
Sunday.
   (B)   However, the above restrictions do not apply to a person who is
attending or proceeding directly to or home from a religious or school-
sanctioned event or lawful employment, or who is accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian or by a person over 21 years of age designated by a parent or
legal guardian to accompany such person. Any person who is found in violation
of the curfew hours herein provided commits a delinquent act.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS PROJECTILES
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Exceptions
   
131.03   Discharge of firearms, air guns and archery weapons
   
131.04   Dangerous projectiles generally
   
131.05   Permitted use of air guns and archery weapons
   
131.06   Permitted use of firearms on authorized firearms ranges
   
131.07   Reasonable prudence required
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GUN. A rifle, pistol or other device for propelling a bullet, pellet,
dart or BB shot by means of compressed air or other compressed gas, or by means
of a spring or similar device under mechanical tension, which creates a charge
of compressed air when released.
   ARCHERY WEAPON. Any longbow, crossbow or similar device designed to propel
an arrow, dart or spear by the release of string tension, but not including a
toy in which the projectile is so blunted or padded as to be incapable of
causing injury under normal circumstances.
   DANGEROUS PROJECTILE. Any projectile discharged from a firearm, air gun or
archery weapon; but also means any other object which is purposely hurled or
thrown by any means, and which by virtue of its sharpness, heaviness, velocity
or explosive or incendiary character, can reasonably be foreseen as potentially
causing harm or injury to persons or property, whether or not any harm or
injury is actually caused or intended.
   FIREARMS. Any rifle, pistol, shotgun, flare gun or other device for
propelling a solid projectile by means of an explosive charge.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 131.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to nor restrict the use of
firearms, air guns, archery weapons or dangerous projectiles by the following
persons:
   (A)   A police officer or other person lawfully authorized to exercise
police power and acting within the context of and to the extent necessary to
perform his or her police functions;
   (B)   A member of the armed forces of the United States or of an allied
military force acting within the context of and to the extent necessary to
perform his or her military duties; and
   (C)   A person acting in the defense of his or her own life or property or
that of another person, to the extent deemed reasonable and justifiable by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 131.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS AND ARCHERY WEAPONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, air gun or archery
weapon within the corporate limits of the town, except in the manner and for
the purposes hereafter permitted.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 DANGEROUS PROJECTILES GENERALLY.
   In addition to the restrictions imposed by §
131.03 of this chapter, it is also unlawful to discharge, hurl or throw any
dangerous projectile whatever:
   (A)   If the projectile traverses a street, road, alley or other public
thoroughfare; and
   (B)   In any public place or establishment and in such a way that the
persons assembled or passing there, or any valuable property, would be
imperiled by such action.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 PERMITTED USE OF AIR GUNS AND ARCHERY WEAPONS.
   An air gun or archery weapon may be discharged under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Upon private property, other than an establishment open to the public,
either within an enclosed structure or within an outdoor area enclosed by a
solid wall or fence at least eight feet high; and
   (B)   Within an authorized firearms range as provided by §
131.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 131.06 PERMITTED USE OF FIREARMS ON AUTHORIZED FIREARMS RANGES.
   (A)   A person may, with the approval and written consent of the Town
Council, establish, maintain and operate a private or public firearms range.
   (B)   Firearms of a type authorized by the Town Council, and subject to any
further restrictions and regulations which the Town Council may impose, may be
used on such authorized range for purposed of target practice, firearms
training or sport competition. In considering an application, the Town Council
shall take account of physical location and layout, safeguards to protect
neighboring properties or other persons on the same premises, and the potential
for noise and disturbance annoying to adjoining properties. The permit shall be
revocable at the discretion of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 131.07 REASONABLE PRUDENCE REQUIRED.
   Any person using a firearm, air gun or archery weapon as authorized under §§
131.05 or
131.06 of this chapter shall, at all times, exercise common and reasonable
prudence. If any police officer finds that such person is not, in the opinion
of the officer, exercising such prudence so as to avoid endangering other
persons or property, the officer may order the person to immediately
discontinue such activity, irrespective of any authorization under §§
131.05 or
131.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who uses a firearm, air gun, archery weapon or dangerous
projectile, except in a manner as authorized herein; establishes, maintains and
operates any firearms range without a permit as provided by §
131.06 of this chapter, or in violation of restrictions and regulations imposed
as conditions of such permit; or disobeys a cease and desist order given in
accordance with §
131.07 of this chapter; commits a penal violation and shall be liable to a fine
in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for each
offense or for each day that a violation continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
Cutting, Tapping Into Public Tile Drains and Public Ways
   
150.01   Permit required; application procedure; fee
   
150.02   Agreement to restore affected public property; optional performance
bond
   
150.03   Work exempted from permit requirement
   
150.04   Inspection required before refilling excavations; further requirements
for tile drain taps; final inspection
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CUTTING, TAPPING INTO PUBLIC TILE DRAINS AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 150.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCEDURE; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do the following in the town
without first having obtained a permit:
      (1)   Cut into or tap into any public tile drain;
      (2)   Cut or disturb the pavement of any public sidewalk; or
      (3)   Cut or disturb the surface or adjacent curb or any public street,
alley or other vehicular thoroughfare.
   (B)   Such permit may be obtained by presenting a written request to the
Clerk-Treasurer, by which the applicant shall state the place where, the time
when and the purpose for which he or she desires to make such cut or tap. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall present the permit request to the Street Commissioner for
review and approval and, if the Street Commissioner approves the application,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall then issue to the applicant a permit upon payment to
the town of a permit fee in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 AGREEMENT TO RESTORE AFFECTED PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPTIONAL PERFORMANCE
BOND.
   The applicant shall agree, as a condition of the permit, to restore to
original condition or its equivalent, as determined by the Street Commissioner,
any pavement, surface area, structure or other public property altered or
disrupted by the work governed by the permit. The Street Commissioner may, at
his or her discretion and as a requisite of approving the application, require
the applicant to post with the Clerk-Treasurer a performance bond in favor of
the town sufficient to cover any costs to the town of restoring public property
to an acceptable condition should the applicant fail to do so satisfactorily.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 150.03 WORK EXEMPTED FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   The requirements to obtain a permit and pay a permit fee as provided by §
150.01 of this chapter shall not apply to the following work:
   (A)   Work necessary for the purposes of providing services of a utility
owned by the town;
   (B)   Work necessary for the purposes of providing services of a public
utility or public service company franchised by the town if, and to the extent
that, the franchise expressly authorizes such person to perform such work;
   (C)   Work performed, or caused to be performed, by an adjacent property
owner by requirement of the town authorities on a public sidewalk pursuant to
I.C. 36-9-36-17; or
   (D)   Any other work required to be performed by a person to comply with a
statute or town ordinance or which is commissioned by the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 150.04 INSPECTION REQUIRED BEFORE REFILLING EXCAVATIONS; FURTHER REQUIREMENTS
FOR TILE DRAIN TAPS; FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   When such cut or tap is made, the excavation necessary to be made to
accomplish such purpose shall not be filled until the cut, tap or connection
shall be inspected by the Street Commissioner. Any connection made at such cut
or tap shall be made in such a manner as to prevent future damage by washing or
leaking of ground water and shall be made to the satisfaction of the Street
Commissioner, all at the expense of the applicant.
   (B)   All work shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Street
Commissioner upon completion.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.04 of this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount as shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time and shall, additionally, be liable to the
town for any damage to town property arising out of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building and Fire Safety Codes
   
151.01   Uniform building and fire safety standards
   
151.02   Building permit required; fee
   
151.03   Building inspections
   
151.04   Appeals from building regulations and administrative decisions
   
151.05   Applicability to existing buildings
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.20   State law adopted by reference
   
151.21   Declaration as public nuisance
   
151.22   Authority and enforcement
   
151.23   Description and definition
   
151.24   Hearing authority
   
151.25   Bond required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING AND FIRE SAFETY CODES
§ 151.01 UNIFORM BUILDING AND FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following provisions shall generally govern the form, application
and enforcement of building standards within the town.
      (1)   (a)   The following described rules and regulations formulated and
promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state,
and including any later editions or promulgated amendments thereto, are deemed
to apply by statute and state administrative law, and shall be enforced, in the
town (citations are to the Indiana Register or Indiana Administrative Code):
            1.   The Indiana Construction Rules and Regulations (including the
Uniform Building Code), 1980, as adopted and promulgated under 3 IR 2148;
            2.   The Indiana Electrical Code, 1984 edition, as adopted and
promulgated under 675 I.A.C. 17-1.8-1 et seq.;
            3.   The Indiana Mechanical Rules and Regulations, 1981, as adopted
and promulgated under 4 IR 1828;
            4.   The Indiana Plumbing Rules and Regulations, 1981, as adopted
and promulgated under 4 IR 2398;
            5.   The One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1984 edition, which
identifies and incorporates therein the Council of American Building Officials
One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1983 edition, as adopted and promulgated
under 7 IR 1870;
            6.   The Indiana Energy Conservation Code, which identifies, amends
and incorporates therein the Model Energy Code, 1983 edition, as finally
promulgated under 675 I.A.C. 19 and 7 IR 2525;
            7.   The Indiana Swimming Pool Rules, 1982, as adopted and
promulgated under 5 IR 1829;
            8.   The Indiana Standard for Permanent installation of
Manufactured Home, 1982, as adopted and promulgated under 6 IR 1729; and
            9.   Any other building rules and regulations hereafter adopted,
promulgated and put in effect by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission under 675 I.A.C., and having statewide applicability pursuant to
I.C. 22-11-1-32 or any other law.
         (b)   The Indiana Register (IR) and Indiana Administrative Code
(I.A.C.) wherein the above described standards and regulations are set forth
are public documents which may be obtained from the Legislative Services Agency
of the state; the individual rules and regulations are contained in public
documents which may be obtained from the Department of Fire Prevention and
Building Safety of the state.
      (2)   The above described standards and regulations shall be deemed
supplemented by any further rules and regulations, as now in effect or
hereafter adopted, as follows:
         (a)   By any special regulations or standards as to design, materials,
method of construction, use or location of buildings in the designated
floodplain districts as required by rules of the Federal Insurance
Administration (or any successor body) pursuant to the town’s participation
under the National Flood Insurance Program; and
         (b)   By any special regulations or requirements as adopted by the
appropriate municipal authorities or by an investor-owned utility company
respecting the design and specifications of any utility service interface
connections between the utility service distribution system and a served
building or premises, and which are made a condition of the initial or
continuing rendering of such utility service.
      (3)   The above described standards and regulations are further
supplemented by the following additional and more stringent standards and
regulations, as deemed necessary by the Town Council to set higher levels of
design criteria such as will measurably enhance the protection of life, public
safety and real and personal property.
      (4)   There is hereby adopted and made effective in the town the 1984
Fire Prevention Code of the National Fire Protection Association, and including
any later editions thereof or amendments thereto. Two copies of said Fire
Prevention Code and any later editions or amendments thereto shall be filed in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and available for public inspection. Such
Fire Prevention Code shall apply until such time as the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission adopts and promulgates a standard state-wide fire
prevention code effective within the town pursuant to division (A)(1)(a)9.
above.
   (B)   However, any special regulations and requirements made applicable
under divisions (A)(2) or (A)(3) above shall apply only if, and to the extent
that, they set forth more detailed specifications or provide further or more
stringent regulations and requirements than the regulations described in
division (A)(1) above and, in no instance, shall be construed to permit any
lesser standard than the regulations under division (A)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 85-11C, passed - -1985)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 85-11C was approved and endorsed by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission of the state, as required by state law on 4-2-1985.
§ 151.02 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
locate, relocate, convert or demolish any building or structure in the town
without obtaining a building permit from the building authority, and signed by
the Building Inspector. Such permit shall be void unless the permitted work is
begun within 120 days or if work is suspended for a continuous period of more
than 120 days. The building authority shall prescribed a form of written
application containing such information as it deems necessary to determine that
the proposed work conforms to the applicable building regulations. A copy of
the permit shall be posted in a conspicuous location at the worksite. However,
the building authority may adopt a general rule waiving the permit requirement
in any of the following instances:
         (a)   Erection of small accessory structures not exceeding 144 square
feet in area and not intended for human occupancy;
         (b)   Work, the cost of which (exclusive of the purchase price of
manufactured equipment to be installed) does not exceed the amount as shall be
set by the Town Council from time to time and does not involve installation or
modification of a structural member of the building; or
         (c)   Minor repairs and unimportant work as defined in the Uniform
Building Code.
      (2)   No permit may be granted until plans and specifications have been
filed with and approved by the state’s Building Commissioner, except in the
case of work on one- and two-family dwellings and related outbuildings or
bridges.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council shall from time to time establish by resolution
a schedule of fees to be charged to applicants for building permits under
division (A) above.
      (2)   Differential fees may be established for different types of
buildings, types of construction work or classes of occupancy.
      (3)   Fees shall be reasonable in contemplation of the costs incurred by
the town for administering the building regulations, issuing permits and making
inspections of work.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
(Ord. 85-11C, passed - -1985)
§ 151.03 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   The holder of any building permit issued pursuant to §
151.02(A) of this chapter shall notify the Building Inspector within 48 hours
of the completion of any work under the permit. The Building Inspector shall
then cause a final inspection to be conducted to ensure that the work complies
with all requirements and conditions of the permit and if satisfactory, the
Building Inspector may order any modification necessary to bring the work into
compliance. Other inspections may be made, including inspection of construction
at any specified stages of progress, in accordance with any rules or
recommendations of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, any
rules hereafter adopted by the building authority, or upon special order of the
building authority. The building authority may require, as a condition of a
building permit, that special inspectors be employed at the expense of the
permit holder if special expertise is deemed necessary to adequately carry out
any required inspection. The Building Inspector may issue and enforce stop-work
orders for any work found to be carried on in violation of this subchapter or
the regulations under §
151.01 of this chapter, such order to be served on the owner of the premises
and the person in charge of the work, and may also, by order issued and served
on the affected party, deny or limit occupancy or use, or require vacation of,
any building, structure or portion thereof, found not to have been construed or
maintained in substantial compliance with the applicable building standards.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 85-11C, passed - -1985)
§ 151.04 APPEALS FROM BUILDING REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   The building authority shall serve as an appeal board with respect to all
questions or disputes regarding the interpretation or application of the
building regulations, the granting of building permits or orders of the
Building Inspector. The building authority may grant variances from strict
applicability of the building regulations; however, a variance from the
regulations described in §
151.01(A)(1)(a) of this chapter, or a variance from any regulation described in
§
151.01(A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this chapter to the extent that such variance
would permit some lesser or different standard than applicable under §
151.01(A)(1)(a) of this chapter may only be granted with the approval of the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission. In all appeals before the
building authority, the burden of proof shall lie with the appellant. Further
appeal may be taken to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in
accordance with state law, as and if applicable to the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 85-11C, passed - -1985)
§ 151.05 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   Buildings in existence on or before any date when this subchapter first
became applicable shall be presumed to adequately conform to the regulations
established under §
151.01 of this chapter, and such buildings shall not be required to be modified
to comply with any such regulations or any further regulations hereafter
adopted, unless it is shown, upon inspection, that any non-complying condition
in such building is such as to pose an actual and present hazard to its
occupants or others; but, any remodeling or repair work, other than minor
repairs and unimportant work as defined in the Uniform Building Code, shall be
required to comply. However, all buildings and parts thereof, both existing and
new, must be maintained in a generally safe and sanitary condition, and all
devices or safeguards which are required hereunder in a building or structure
when erected, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good order by the
owner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 85-11C, passed - -1985)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.20 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-7-1 et seq. is hereby adopted by reference as the “Town of Advance
Unsafe Building Law”. All proceedings within the town for the inspection,
repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the existing state
law and as amended and also pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.21 DECLARATION AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the Town Marshal, County Building Inspector, utilities personnel,
Fire Chief or members of the Fire Department, to be unsafe, as defined in this
subchapter and pursuant to state law, are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.22 AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The county’s Building Inspector shall be authorized to administer and
proceed under the provisions of this subchapter and state law in ordering the
repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or
as specified hereinafter.
(Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.23 DESCRIPTION AND DEFINITION.
   The description and definition of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-
9-4 is incorporated by reference and is hereby supplemented to provide minimal
standards for building condition or maintenance in the town by adding the
following definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING is any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described; provided that, such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public
or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable
of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the working stresses
permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof was wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been construed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town or of any law or ordinance of the state relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building or like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities or otherwise, is determined by the county’s Health
Department or its designated representative to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exists, lack or
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire Chief of the
town or his or her designated representative to be a fire hazard; and
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.24 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   For the purposes of the Unsafe Building Law, the hearing authority as
required by state statutes shall be the person or persons designated by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.25 BOND REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the establishment of this subchapter, the Town Council, the
designated hearing authority, pursuant to recommendation by the Town Attorney,
hereby establishes the bond under this subchapter as follows: a maximum bond
may be established by the hearing authority which shall be no greater than an
amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. The amount of the
bond to be established by the hearing authority under the unsafe building
ordinance shall be in relation to, and in proportion to, the cost of the amount
of work which has been ordered pursuant to those actions authorized by
ordinance and state law. In the event the person, firm, corporation or other
entity, which is ordered to comply with the ordered action under this
subchapter, disagrees with the bond established by the hearing authority, then,
in the event, the affected party shall obtain two independent estimates of
repair cost, removal or such other action as has been ordered under this
subchapter, from recognized contractors, or their equivalent, at their own
expense, which shall be submitted to the hearing authority (Town Council) prior
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the body for further consideration
and/or re-evaluation of the bond ordered set under this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   It shall be deemed a penal violation of §§
151.01 through
151.05 of this chapter for any person to:
            1.   Perform any building work without a permit when required under
§
151.02(A) of this chapter; or
            2.   Perform any work in violation of the expressed or implied
conditions of such permit, including all applicable laws, ordinances,
regulations and covenants.
         (b)   Any person committing any such penal violation shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a fine in the amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time for each day that the violation continues. Such fine
shall be in addition to any further liability for costs of abatement of a
violation, or any civil forfeitures imposed under I.C. 36-7-9, or any costs
recovered pursuant to any civil action by the town to force compliance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
      (2)   Any building in which any work is performed without a permit, in
violation of the conditions of such permit, or without receiving and passing
any inspections, as required in §§
151.01 through
151.05 of this chapter shall be deemed prima facie an unsafe building subject
to further procedures and abatement under the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation, whether its owner, lessee,
sublessee or occupant, shall wreck, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
premises or cause or permit the same to be done contrary and in violation of
any provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.25 of this chapter or any order issued by the County Building Inspector,
the Town Marshal, the general manager of the Town Utilities or by the Fire
Chief. Any person violating the provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.25 of this chapter or the provisions of the state’s Unsafe Building Law,
being I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., shall commit an ordinance violation and may be fined
up to a maximum of $500 for each violation of §§
151.20 through
151.25 of this chapter. Violation fines may accumulate for each day that such
violation continues.
      (2)   In the event that the town is required to file ordinance violation
charges or is required to seek injunctive or other relief before any court,
then, and in that event, upon any determination in favor of the town, the town
shall be entitled to recover and have judgment against any such person, firm or
corporation or other entity violating §§
151.20 through
151.25 of this chapter and the town’s reasonable attorney fees incurred in
prosecuting these actions.
(Ord. 85-11C, passed - -1985; Ord. 07-G-01, passed 11-14-2007)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
152.01   Vacation of public property and rights-of-way
§ 152.01 VACATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   In the event that any ordinances vacating public property or rights-of-way
have heretofore been duly adopted by the Town Council, but the provisions of
which are not set forth in this section, all such ordinances and provisions are
hereby incorporated by reference in this section and are expressly saved from
any general repeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Division of floodplain area into nominal districts
   
153.03   Permitted uses in Floodplain (FP) Districts; special exceptions
   
153.04   Permitted uses in Floodway (FW) Districts; special exceptions
   
153.05   Flood protection grade requirements for buildings and uses in floodway
fringe (FF) districts
   
153.06   Regulation and restriction of non-conforming uses in FP, FW and FF
Districts
   
153.07   Variances
   
153.08   Abatement of violations
   
153.09   Disclaimer; limitations of liability
   
153.10   Purpose and interpretation
   
153.11   Specific Floodplain (FP) District established
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATER. The water of any river or stream which is above the
banks and/or outside the channel and banks of such river or stream.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Those floodplains which have not been adequately
protected from flooding by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs or other works
approved by Natural Resources.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood water may enter the interior of the
building.
   FLOODWAY DISTRICT. The area designated as a commission floodway by Natural
Resources.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE DISTRICT. Those portions of flood hazard areas lying outside
the floodway district.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. The state’s Natural Resources Commission.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE. A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface attained by the regulatory flood.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.02 DIVISION OF FLOODPLAIN AREA INTO NOMINAL DISTRICTS.
   The floodplain area of the town is hereby classified and divided into three
districts, designated as follows.
   (A)   Floodplain (FP) District. The purpose of the FP District is to guide
development in flood hazard areas in which a commission floodway has not been
established.
   (B)   Floodway (FW) District. The purpose of the FW District is to delineate
the area established by Natural Resources as a commission floodway. Natural
Resources exercises primary jurisdiction within the Floodway District under the
provisions of state law. The Town Council may place terms and conditions on any
permit it issues in the Floodway District which are more restrictive than those
imposed by Natural Resources.
   (C)   Floodway Fringe (FF) District. The purpose of the FF District is to
regulate land use in the flood hazard area outside the floodway. The Floodway
Fringe FF District may stand by itself or be combined with any district which
the Council deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.03 PERMITTED USES IN FLOODPLAIN (FP) DISTRICTS; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following uses are permitted by right in the FP Districts:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as the production of crops, pastures,
orchards, plant nurseries, vineyards and general farming;
      (2)   Forestry, wildlife areas and nature preserves; and
      (3)   Parks and recreational uses such as golf courses, driving ranges
and play areas.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
   (B)   (1)   The following special exception uses may be permitted in the
Floodplain (FP) District only after a proper permit has been granted by Natural
Resources. All items and conditions imposed by Natural Resources will be
incorporated in any permit issued by the Town Council:
         (a)   Water management and use facilities, such as dams, docks,
dolphins, channel improvements, dikes, jetties, groins, marinas, piers,
wharves, levees, seawalls, floodwalls, weirs and irrigation facilities;
         (b)   Transportation facilities, such as streets, bridges, roadways,
fords, airports, pipelines, railroad and utilities transmission facilities;
         (c)   Temporary or seasonal floodplain occupancy, such as circus
sites, fair sites, carnival sites, boat ramps, camps, roadside stands and
transient amusement facility sites;
         (d)   Water related urban uses, such as wastewater treatment
facilities, storm sewers, electric generating and transmission facilities and
water treatment facilities; and
         (e)   Other flood-tolerant or open space urban uses, such as flood-
proofed industrial and commercial buildings, race tracks, tennis courts, park
buildings, outdoor theaters, fills, truck freight terminals, radio or
television towers, parking lots and mineral extractions.
      (2)   No special use shall be granted by the Council without
recommendation of Natural Resources. The Town Council may impose greater
restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
(Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.04 PERMITTED USES IN FLOODWAY (FW) DISTRICTS; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The same uses as permitted by right in the FP District as described in
§
153.03(A) of this chapter shall be permitted in the FW District.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
   (B)   The same special exception uses as may be permitted in an FP District
are as described in §
153.03(B) of this chapter, but only after a permit for construction has been
previously granted by Natural Resources pursuant to the 1945 Flood Control Act,
being 615 ILCS 15/1 et seq., as amended. All terms and conditions imposed by
Natural Resources will be incorporated in any permit issued by the Town
Council. The Town Council may impose greater restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
(Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.05 FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS AND USES IN FLOODWAY
FRINGE (FF) DISTRICTS.
   All buildings constructed in a Floodway Fringe District shall have a flood
protection grade at least two feet above the regulatory flood profile as
established by Natural Resources. Where the Floodway Fringe (FF) District
overlaps with any other zone, the uses permitted by right or by special
exception shall be constructed to have a flood protection grade at least two
feet above the regulatory flood profile as established by Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.06 REGULATION AND RESTRICTION OF NON-CONFORMING USES IN FP, FW AND FF
DISTRICTS.
   Any non-conforming uses existing in FP, FW or FF Districts are subject to
the following regulations and restrictions.
   (A)   Enlargement of non-conforming uses in FW Districts. No non-conforming
use in a Floodway (FW) District shall be expanded or enlarged without a permit
for construction in a floodway from Natural Resources.
   (B)   Enlargement of non-conforming uses in FF Districts. A non-conforming
use in a Floodway (FF) District may be altered, enlarged or extended, on a one-
time only basis; provided, such alterations, enlargements or extensions do not
increase the value of the building or structure, excluding the value of land,
by more than 40% of its pre-improvement market value, unless such building or
structure is permanently changed to a conforming use.
   (C)   Enlargement of non-conforming uses in FP Districts. A non-conforming
use in a Floodplain (FP) District may be altered, enlarged or extended on a
one-time only basis; provided, the procedures set forth in this chapter are
followed; and, further provided, such alterations, enlargements or extensions
do not increase the value of the building or structure, excluding the value of
the land, by more than 40% of its pre-improvement market value, unless such
building or structure is permanently changed to a conforming use.
   (D)   Restoration of damaged non-conforming uses. Any non-conforming use in
the FP, FW and FF Districts which is damaged by flood, fire, explosion, act of
God or the public enemy may be restored to its original dimensions and
conditions; provided, the damage dues not reduce the value of the buildings,
excluding the value of the land, by more than 40% of its pre-damaged value.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.07 VARIANCES.
   The Town Council may not grant a variance to any of the requirements of the
Floodplain (FP) or Floodway (FW) District, or to the flood protection grade
requirements of the Floodway Fringe (FF) District (whether or not combined or
overlaid with any other district) without the written approval of Natural
Resources.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.08 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any building or use of land located or constructed in any floodplain area or
district, as herein designated, after 7-6-1976, or after the determination of
such area or district to be in a floodplain area (whichever is later) shall,
except as otherwise herein or hereunder permitted, be deemed a public nuisance
and an unsafe building or premises, and shall be subject to mandatory remedies
and abatement in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2, I.C. 36-1-6-4(a) or any other
applicable statutes or ordinances providing for the remedy and abatement of
public nuisances or unsafe buildings and premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.09 DISCLAIMER; LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.
   In the FP, FW and FF Districts established herein, the degree of flood
protection established in this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on engineering and scientific considerations. Larger
floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by
human-made or natural causes such as ice or debris jams. This chapter does not
imply that areas outside flood hazard districts, as defined herein, will be
free of flooding or flood damage. This chapter does not create any liability on
the part of the town, the Town Council, Natural Resources, the state or any
elected or appointed official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.10 PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort and general welfare of the community, and that the basic
purpose of such provisions is to guide the development of the uses of flood
land throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
§ 153.11 SPECIFIC FLOODPLAIN (FP) DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   A district is hereby established on the map of the town which shall be a
Floodplain (FP) District. A map of said district, as attached to original Ord.
76-4 (adopted 7-6-1976) and marked “Exhibit A” is incorporated by reference and
made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) (Ord. 7-4, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 85-9C, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Location and occupancy restricted; exceptions
   
154.03   Variances from restrictions
   
154.04   Administrative policy
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED MOBILE HOME OR SUBDIVISION. An approved mobile home park or mobile
home subdivision is a mobile home park or subdivision, the location of which
has been approved by the Town Council upon written petition and:
      (1)   Is a mobile home park consisting of five or more mobile home lots
or spaces, the plans, specifications and operation of which have been
submitted, approved, licensed and regulated by the state’s Board of Health;
      (2)   A mobile home park consisting of fewer than five lots or spaces,
the plans, specifications and operations of which have been submitted,
approved, licensed and regulated by the county’s Board of Health; or
      (3)   A mobile home subdivision, the plans and specifications of which
have been submitted to and approved by the Town Council or building authority
of the town, subject to such rules, covenants and other requirements as the
Council or building authority may impose as a condition of such approval.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure or vehicle which is used as living quarters, and
contains sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, kitchen
facilities and plumbing and electrical connections for attachment to outside
systems; and is designed for transportation after fabrication on streets or
highways on its own wheels and arrives at the site where it is to be occupied
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or permanent
foundations, connections to utilities, and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land under single ownership which has
been planned and improved for the placement of the mobile home and additions or
attachments thereto.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A tract of land consisting of not less than three
acres which has been planned and improved for placement of mobile homes,
including such public improvements as streets, sidewalks, lighting, drainage
systems, and utility service distribution systems all of which are
substantially equivalent to those provided with respect to fixed-construction
dwelling units in the area of the town where the MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION is
located; and which tract of land is subdivided into individual lots which are
reserved and may be purchased by individuals exclusively for the purpose of
locating thereon a mobile home for residential occupancy. Such individual lots
may be required to meet any minimum area, front lot line, depth, building set
back or building coverage ratio standards as may be required by ordinance or
which are determined by the Town Council to be prevailing practical standards
for fixed-construction dwelling units in the respective area.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 154.02 LOCATION AND OCCUPANCY RESTRICTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in the following, no person shall be permitted to
park or occupy any mobile home on any premises in any district outside of an
approved mobile home park or mobile home subdivision. No more than one mobile
home may be located on any one mobile home space or lot. In any mobile home
park or subdivision, the wheels of any mobile home shall not be permitted to be
removed except for repairs, nor shall any mobile home be permitted to be
otherwise permanently fixed to the ground in the manner that would prevent its
removal.
   (B)   However, this section does not prohibit, nor restrict, the following:
      (1)   Emergency or temporary stopping of a mobile home shall be allowed
on any street, alley or highway for not longer than two hours subject to any
other further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic
regulations or laws for such street, alley or highway;
      (2)   A mobile home may be temporarily located and used as a site office
at a construction site; provided that, it is not used for residential purposes
and is promptly removed when construction is completed; and
      (3)   Unoccupied mobile homes may be stored on any premises in a garage,
barn or other enclosed structure or area out of public view, or may be kept and
displayed on the show lot of a business engaged in the sale of mobile homes.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 VARIANCES FROM RESTRICTIONS.
   No variance in the application of the provisions of this chapter shall be
made by the Council relating to buildings, land or premises now existing,
unless after a public hearing, the Council shall find that such variance will
not:
   (A)   Impair the adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
   (B)   Increase the hazard from fire, flood or other dangers of said
property;
   (C)   Diminish the marketable value of adjacent lands and buildings; or
   (D)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort and general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 154.04 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY.
   Recognizance is hereby given to the state-wide policy heretofore proclaimed
by the General Assembly of the state in state law, to-wit: to recognize the
mobile home as a suitable and necessary dwelling unit in the state. In
accordance therewith, it shall be the policy of the town to administer the
provisions, rules, restrictions and requirements as set forth in this chapter
or adopted hereunder in a fair and equitable manner so as not to deny
reasonable access to lands and living space within the town for persons wishing
to establish and occupy mobile homes to the extent that the same would not be,
by reasonable standards, injurious to or inconsistent with the orderly
development of the town and surrounding area nor the preservation of property
values and the overall health, safety, convenience and welfare of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or fails to comply with
any requirements thereof, or who shall build, reconstruct or structurally alter
any building or mobile home in violation of any detailed statement or plan
submitted and approved thereunder shall, for each and every violation or non-
compliance, be fined in the amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time and each day that such violation or non-compliance is permitted to
continue shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 155.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning provisions, and any and all amendment, are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2010-T-5, passed 5-10-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FUNDS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AND INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   PROPERTY
      
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Levy Excess Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
-        - -         Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund (cigarette tax)
                     (Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
-        - -         Payroll Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
-        - -         Special Deposit Fund
                     (Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
2012-5   5-14-2012   Rainy Day Fund
2016-04  6-13-2016   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
2017-03  2-9-2017    Public Safety Local Income Tax Fund
2018-03  8-16-2018   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund #258
2019-01  5-13-2019   Sub-fund for MVH Restricted Funds
2021-06  6-14-2021   Department of Parks and Recreation Petty Cash Fund
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AND INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      2-9-   Granting a community antenna television system franchise to Quality
81-1  1981   C.A.T.V., Inc.
             (Prior Code, §§ 2-4-1—2-4-20)
      10-1-  Authorizing the acceptance of pay channels offered by Quality C.A.T.V.,
2-84  1984   Inc.
             (Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
97-G- 10-1-  Granting a cable system franchise to Phoenix Concept Cablevision of
5     1997   Indiana, L.L.C.
2004- 4-5-   Granting a cable system franchise to Longview Cable and Data, L.L.C.
G-5   2004
2011- 3-14-  Approving the town’s participation, as a participating member, in the
E-1   2011   Retrofit Program
            
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a part of the northwest quarter of the northwest
                     quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 22, Township
-        - -         18 North, Range 2 West of the second principal meridian,
                     containing nine and three-fourths acres of land
                     (Prior Code, §§ 8-6-1—8-6-3)
                    
 
TABLE IV: PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Placing restrictions on the use of a 0.33-acre lot,
2017-12  11-13-2017  containing five vacant parcels, located at 101 South Main
                     Street
                    
 
TABLE V: ZONING
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
2019-01-Z 1-22-2019   Rezoning property and changing the zoning maps
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
3-10-7-3                      31.03
4-21.5-5-5                    54.077
                              32.15;
5-3-1                         32.16;
                              32.17
5-17-2-47                     90.02
6-1.1-22-14                   34.049
6-9-39-1                      90.02
7.1-5-12-4                    34.078
8-1.5-3-13                    50.07
9-4-1-28(c)                   70.21
9-4-1-58                      Ch. 73, Schd. I
9-4-1-127.1(b)                Ch. 72, Schd. III
9-13-0.1-1 through 9-13-2-200 70.01
9-13-2-193                    Ch. 72, Schd. II
9-21-1-2 through 9-21-1-3     70.05
9-21-1-3.3                    71.99
9-21-5.5                      Ch. 72, Schd. II
9-21-5-6                      Ch. 72, Schd. II
9-21-16                       Ch. 73, Schd. I
9-25-4-1 et seq.              71.01
9-25-4-4                      71.05
                              70.25,
9-30 et seq.                  Ch. 72, Schd. II,
                              Ch. 72, Schd. III,
                              Ch. 73, Schd. I
15-5-9-14                     90.20
15-15-2-47                    90.02
15-17-2-3                     90.02
22-11-1-32                    151.01
35-46-3-2                     90.20
36-1-5-1-1 et seq.            90.03
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-4-16                     50.20
36-1-5-4                      33.11
                              52.01;
36-1-6-2                      91.05;
                              153.08
36-1-6-4                      90.99
36-1-6-4(a)                   91.05;
                              153.08
                              33.11;
36-1-20.2                     34.029;
                              34.091
36-1-21                       33.11
36-5-2-2                      10.15
36-7-7-1 et seq.              151.20
36-7-9                        151.99
36-7-9 et seq.                151.99
36-7-9-4                      151.23
36-9-23-3                     54.002
36-9-36-17                    150.03
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code   2022 Code
1-2-1        10.05
1-2-5        10.17
1-3-1        11.01
1-3-2        11.02
1-3-3        11.03
1-3-4        11.04
1-3-5        11.05
1-3-6        11.06
1-3-7        11.07
1-3-8        11.08
1-4-1        31.35
1-4-2        31.36
1-4-3        30.01
1-4-4        30.02
2-1-1        51.01
2-1-2        51.02
2-1-4        51.03
2-2-2        52.16
2-3-1        50.01
2-3-2        50.02
2-3-3        50.03
2-3-4        50.04
2-3-5        50.05
2-3-6        50.06
2-3-7        50.07
2-3-8        50.08
2-4-1        TSO Table II
2-4-1—2-4-2TSO Table II
3-1-1        150.01
3-1-2        150.02
3-1-3        150.03
3-1-4        150.04
3-1-5        150.99
3-2-1        130.01
3-3-1        152.01
3-6-1        50.20
3-6-2        50.21
3-6-3        50.22
3-6-4        50.23
3-6-5        50.24
3-6-6        50.25
3-6-7        50.26
3-6-8        50.27
4-1-1        92.01
4-1-2        92.02
4-1-3        92.03
4-1-4        92.04
4-1-5        92.05
4-2-1        90.15
4-2-2        90.16
4-2-3        90.17
4-2-4        90.99
4-2-5        90.18
4-2-6        90.19
4-2-7        90.20
4-2-8        90.21
4-2-9        90.22
4-3-1        91.01
4-3-2        91.02
4-3-3        91.03
4-3-4        91.04
4-3-5        91.05
4-3-6        91.05
4-3-7        91.06
4-3-8        91.99
4-4-1        131.01
4-4-2        131.02
4-4-3        131.03
4-4-4        131.04
4-4-5        131.05
4-4-6        131.06
4-4-7        131.07
4-4-8        131.99
5-1-1        110.01
5-1-2        110.02
5-1-3        110.03
5-1-4        110.99
5-2-1        111.01
5-2-2        111.02
5-2-3        111.03
5-2-4        111.04
5-2-5        111.05
5-2-6        111.06
5-2-7        111.07
5-2-8        111.08
5-2-9        111.09
5-2-10       111.10
5-2-11       111.11
5-2-12       111.99
6-1-1        154.01
6-1-2        154.02
6-1-3        154.03
6-1-4        154.99
6-1-5        154.04
6-2-1        153.01
6-2-2        153.02
6-2-3        153.03
6-2-4        153.03
6-2-5        153.04
6-2-6        153.04
6-2-7        153.05
6-2-8        153.06
6-2-9        153.07
6-2-10       153.08
6-2-11       153.09
6-2-12       153.10
6-2-13       153.11
6-3-1        151.01
6-3-2        151.02
6-3-3        151.02
6-3-4        151.03
6-3-5        151.04
6-3-6        151.05
6-3-7        151.99
6-3-8        151.99
7-1-1        70.01
7-1-2        70.02
7-1-3        70.03
7-1-4        70.04;
             70.99
7-1-5        70.05
7-2-1        70.20
7-2-2        70.21
7-2-3        70.22
7-2-4        70.23
7-2-5        70.24
7-2-6        70.25
7-2-7        70.26
7-2-8        70.27
7-3-1        Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-3-2        Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-3-3        Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-4-1        Ch. 72, Schd. II
7-4-2        Ch. 72, Schd. II
7-4-3        Ch. 72, Schd. II
7-5-1        Ch. 73, Schd. I
7-5-2        Ch. 73, Schd. I
7-6-1        Ch. 72, Schd. III
7-6-2        Ch. 72, Schd. III
7-6-3        Ch. 72, Schd. III
8-1-1        33.01
8-1-2        33.02
8-1-3        33.03
8-1-4        33.04
8-1-5        33.05
8-1-6        33.06
8-1-7        33.07
8-1-8        33.08
8-1-9        33.09
8-1-10       33.10
8-1-11       33.10
8-1-12       33.10
8-2-1        TSO Table I
8-2-2        TSO Table I
8-2-3        TSO Table I
8-2-4        TSO Table I
8-2-5        32.01
8-2-6        32.02
8-3-1        31.50
8-3-2        31.51
8-3-3        31.52
8-4-1        31.15
8-4-2        31.16
8-4-3        31.17
8-4-4        31.18
8-4-5        31.19
8-4-6        31.20
8-5-1        31.01
8-5-2        31.02
8-6-1—8-6-3TSO Table III
             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -2012     33.11
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
7-4       7-6-1976    153.01—
                      153.11
77-2      6-6-1977    Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                      Ch. 72, Schd. II
78-3      - -1978     50.08
                      110.01—
78-5      5-1-1978    110.03;
                      110.99
81-1      2-9-1981    TSO Table II
82-2      - -1982     50.03
                      50.01;
83-2      - -1983     50.02;
                      50.04—
                      50.06
                      111.01—
83-3      9-12-1983   111.11;
                      111.99
2-84      10-1-1984   TSO Table II
85-1C     - -1985     50.07
                      111.01—
85-5C     - -1985     111.11;
                      111.99
                      Ch. 72, Schd. II;
85-6C     - -1985     110.01—
                      110.03;
                      110.99
85-9C     - -1985     153.01—
                      153.11
                      151.01—
85-11C    - -1985     151.05;
                      151.99
85-14C    - -1985     Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                      Ch. 72, Schd. II
85-17C    - -1985     Ch. 72, Schd. II;
                      Ch. 73, Schd. I
85-18C    - -1985     50.20—
                      50.27
                      53.01,
92-53     9-16-1992   53.02,
                      53.04—
                      53.08
97-G-5    10-1-1997   TSO Table II
99-W-1    11-10-1999  52.02
2004-G-5  4-5-2004    TSO Table II
                      151.20—
07-G-01   11-14-2007  151.25;
                      151.99
                      50.23;
08-U-01   2-12-2008   50.25—
                      50.27
08-G-01   3-10-2008   112.01
08-G-2    6-9-2008    90.99
2010-T-5  5-10-2010   155.01
U-02-2010 11-15-2010  50.20
10-U-07   11-15-2010  50.28
2011-E-1  3-14-2011   TSO Table II
2012-5    5-14-2012   TSO Table I
2012-12-1 12-29-2012  31.20
                      71.01—
2013-6    8-12-2013   71.11;
                      71.99
2014-C-01 12-8-2014   31.03
2014-E-01 12-8-2014   51.06
2016-01   2-8-2016    32.01
2016-02   - -2016     90.23,
                      90.99
2016-03   6-13-2016   30.40—
                      30.48
2016-04   6-13-2016   TSO Table I
                      34.001—
                      34.004;
                      34.015—
                      34.030;
                      34.045—
                      34.051;
2016-07   12-28-2016  34.065—
                      34.078;
                      34.090—
                      34.100;
                      34.115—
                      34.122;
                      34.137
                      51.01;
2017-01   2-9-2017    51.02;
                      51.03—
                      51.05
2017-02   2-9-2017    52.16—
                      52.18
2017-03   2-9-2017    TSO Table I
2017-06   9-11-2017   32.15—
                      32.22
2017-07   9-11-2017   30.15—
                      30.25
2017-08   11-13-2017  34.150—
                      34.154
2017-12   11-13-2017  TSO Table IV
02-2018   5-22-2018   52.01;
                      52.99
                      90.02 –
2018-02   6-4-2018    90.03,
                      90.99
2018-01   6-11-2018   52.03
2018-03   8-16-2018   TSO Table I
2018.05   9-18-2018   50.40—
                      50.44
2018-06   9-18-2018   90.01
2019-01-Z 1-22-2019   TSO Table V
2019-01   5-13-2019   TSO Table I
2019-09   12-30-2019  52.15
2020-02   6-8-2020    53.03
                      54.001-
                      54.005,
                      54.020-
                      54.029,
                      54.040-
                      54.043,
                      54.055-
                      54.061,
                      54.075-
                      54.081,
                      54.095-
2021-03   6-14-2021   54.107,
                      54.120-
                      54.123,
                      54.135-
                      54.144,
                      54.155-
                      54.157,
                      54.170-
                      54.174,
                      54.185-
                      54.187,
                      54.999,
                      Ch. 54 App. A
2021-06   6-14-2021   TSO Table I
                      51.01,
2021-07   10-26-2021  51.02,
                      51.04,
                      51.05
 
